

201 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 34; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: CRIME

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO 

 BODY:
Everywhere you look, nobody's playing baseball. Not even Harvey Blissberg, the Boston Red Sox outfielder who turned private detective when he got too old to play the game. How old is that? you ask. Well, in Richard Rosen's WORLD OF HURT (Walker, $20.95), a lippy cop describes Harvey's face as "too old for a baseball card but not old enough for plastic surgery." Which makes him nicely seasoned for the job he takes on for his brother, Norm: to find out who killed a real estate agent who played on Norm's pickup basketball team in an affluent Chicago suburb.
The foreign terrain of the Midwest brings out all the best instincts of this smart sleuth, whose quiet intelligence and dry wit have been much missed since his last appearance six years ago in "Saturday Night Dead." Harvey's mental notes on the regional suburban culture are every bit as striking as his keen insights into characters like the desperately bored housewife -- gallantly described as "a woman of some substance, some intelligence, some irony" -- with whom he has a brief, debasing sexual encounter. The sights that catch Harvey's eye are homely but unnerving, from the resident "suicidologist" installed at a local high school to the meticulously groomed split-level homes in which he glimpses "people growing older inside their houses." A thinking man like that -- no wonder Harvey was always so lonely in the outfield. 
 Two dozen books into his career, Reginald Hill has ditched the austerely elegant writing style that characterizes his pensive police procedurals and existential spy thrillers. PICTURES OF PERFECTION (Delacorte, $19.95), the British author's latest mystery in a normally sober series with the Yorkshire coppers Andrew Dalziel and Peter Pascoe, is a whimsical fairy tale, all a-bubble with bucolic laughter and romance. The humor is grittier and more overtly farcical in BLOOD SYMPATHY (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $19.95), Mr. Hill's first novel in a new series featuring "a short, black, balding, redundant lathe-operator" as its blue-collar private eye.
What is a faithful reader to make of all this giddiness? As Jane Austen said in a letter quoted by Mr. Hill in "Pictures of Perfection": "A Thing once set going in that way -- one knows how it spreads!"
The disappearance of a young village constable sets up the plot of "Pictures of Perfection" in the traditional whodunit manner. But by the time Dalziel, Pascoe and the ugly but amiable Sergeant Wield establish themselves in picturesque Enscombe parish, the story fragments into bright little bits. (Or, to quote clever Jane again, as Mr. Hill does throughout the book: "There is very little story, and what there is is told in a strange, unconnected way.")
The shiniest parts of this disjointed tale are the author's affectionate character sketches of the eccentric villagers. These worthies are exactly what you'd expect in a quaint burg like Enscombe: the doddering squire, the garrulous innkeeper, the cynical intellectual, the local artist, the local dolt and sundry lovers awaiting the magic of a midsummer's night -- or the assistance of a couple of cops with nothing better to do than match them all up properly.
Dalziel does the romantic honors while settling the village's ancient feuds and longstanding grudges, so this pretty fairy tale ends happily. But "what a trifle it is," says Jane.
The plot of "Blood Sympathy" is just as inconsequential -- it has something to do with a rich man's murder and a poor man's drug smuggling -- but Mr. Hill has a real point to make with this working-class mystery, which deals with the ugly prejudices that cut across all racial, religious, social and economic lines.
Although Joe Sixsmith is as sweet a hero as you're likely to find in a rough multiracial neighborhood on the outskirts of London, his neighbors are outspoken bigots. True Brits sneer at Italians, who look down on blacks, who insult Gypsies, and so on. Joe himself patronizes women, and his black cat, Whitey, "regarded Persians and all foreign breeds as illegal immigrants, sneaking over here to take English mice out of English mouths."
This sort of thing can be funny, but the farcical nature of the joke wears itself out and the broad characters are all show. In Jane Austen's words: "What a blessing one cares for none of them!"
"A fire investigation is just like an archeological dig," according to a crusty arson expert named Wylie Nolan. Wylie goes on a dig in Shelly Reuben's ORIGIN AND CAUSE (Scribners, $20) when a 1930 Duesenberg sedan worth $2 million erupts in black smoke, along with the film and television magnate who inherited the magnificent relic from his dad. Max Bramble, a lawyer who specializes in product liability, gets the case when the company that restored the antique car is slapped with a suit by the dead man's heirs. Sniffing his way through the charred ruins, Wylie finds clear evidence of arson. But can Max salvage the scorched reputation of the classic automobile in court?
Ms. Reuben, a licensed arson investigator with infectious enthusiasm for her profession, draws on solid technical expertise to take the reader through arcane forensic details like burn patterns and the relative volatility of flammable liquids. Like Max, we come to appreciate that "fire analysis . . . is a strange but coherent kind of detective work. It's subtle and it's cerebral." But nobody would call it noble, a designation reserved for the "perfectly designed, mighty hero of a machine" that is the real beauty here.
The plot's the thing in THE BLACK BOOK (Otto Penzler, $21), Ian Rankin's new police procedural with Inspector John Rebus, a shrewd, stern Calvinist on the Edinburgh police force. Or maybe the subplot's the thing. There are at least six or seven subplots here, cunningly interlocking in an intricate but cohesive pattern.
In no particular order, these include a stabbing in broad daylight outside Jim Bone's butcher shop; an attack on a young police sergeant who went to the Heartbreak Cafe for its Blue Suede Choux; a parent's persecution of a rehabilitated child molester; an unsolved five-year-old case of arson at the Central Hotel; an unsolved homicide in the unsolved arson; the racketeering activities of Morris Cafferty's mob; and the dicey personal affairs of Inspector Rebus, who ruefully describes his life as "a black comedy."
The various story lines are only slightly easier to sort out than characters named McPhail, MacKenzie, Maclean, McShane and McNair. But Rebus is the kind of detective who enjoys a deep, dark mystery with a good moral conundrum and long roots in the past. That comes from living in Edinburgh, a city so proud of its bloody history that it "fed on its past like a serpent with its tail in its mouth."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WORLD OF HURT (BOOK); PICTURES OF PERFECTION (BOOK); BLOOD SYMPATHY (BOOK); ORIGIN AND CAUSE (BOOK); BLACK BOOK, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); MIDWEST USA (57%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BLACK BOOK (59%); BOSTON RED SOX (84%); BOSTON RED SOX (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (84%); BOSTON RED SOX (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); MIDWEST USA (57%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BASEBALL (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ATHLETES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (78%); BASKETBALL (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); WRITERS (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); SUBURBS (69%); SUICIDE (65%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (56%); 

PERSON: STASIO, MARILYN; ROSEN, RICHARD; HILL, REGINALD; REUBEN, SHELLY; RANKIN, IAN RICHARD S HILL (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



202 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 28; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: THE BIG CITY;
Paying for Keeps

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
One of New York's great success stories, the rescue of Central Park, is almost complete. Since 1980, much of the park has been rebuilt and replanted, and two and a half weeks ago civic leaders proudly began the final phase of the restoration project. But now that the park is in such fine shape, it's time to take one more step to protect future generations. It's time to privatize Central Park.
I realize this is not yet a wildly popular idea. Turnstiles at the gates will take some getting used to. Even people who support the Mayor's attempts to sell public hospitals and privatize garbage collection aren't willing to give up public parks. They argue that nothing is more important to urban life than a common space like Central Park -- and they're right. But that's precisely why it should be privatized. It's too important to be entrusted to politicians anymore. 
 Politicians are fond of calling Central Park "the most democratic place in America," a refuge for the masses that could be provided only by a benevolent government. But its history is actually a study of elitism and government neglect. The park was built in the 1860's far from the downtown neighborhoods of the poor and administered by a "board of gentlemen." The rich could ride on the bridle path or dine at expensive restaurants, but working-class visitors were forbidden to play baseball or picnic. Many immigrants last century preferred paying admission fees to enjoy the greenery at "pleasure gardens" run by nongentlemen.
As the immigrants gained power, politicians took control of the park and opened it up, but they often made shortsighted concessions to special interests. They sacrificed parkland for parking lots and ruined landscapes with ugly buildings. They turned the park's six-mile-loop road, which was never intended for city traffic, over to cars and taxicabs. Worst of all, politicians this century continually scrimped on the budget. By 1980, the park was so dilapidated that its wealthy neighbors formed the Central Park Conservancy to raise money from corporations and individuals. The conservancy, which has contributed more than $100 million to the park, hires its own gardeners and maintenance crews and pays half of the park's annual operating budget.
So today's Central Park is not exactly a testament to benevolent government. To a large extent, it's already been privatized. But because Central Park depends on the conservancy's donors, it's a privatized charity case, which is risky as well as unnecessary. The charity would be better devoted to parks in poor neighborhoods of the Bronx and Brooklyn. Most of Central Park's neighbors can afford to pay their own way, and there are a couple of ways to collect from them.
One would be through the system recently instituted at Bryant Park, next to the public library on 42d Street. A tax surcharge on midtown commercial buildings goes directly to a private company that has taken over the park's management. The results have been spectacular -- a seedy square has become a bustling, verdant park, complete with clean bathrooms and round-the-clock security. The Central Park Conservancy is considering a similar approach. It's preparing a proposal to supplement Central Park's budget with a tax surcharge on the surrounding buildings.
This approach would certainly be an improvement over the current system, but the park would still be under the control of the elites financing the budget: city politicians, conservancy donors and the park's generally affluent neighbors. A more truly democratic system would put the park in the hands of someone directly accountable to the park users -- a company that survives by collecting fees from the public.
It might, say, offer free admission to anyone under 18 or over 60, and give everyone else a choice: a one-day pass for the price of a subway token or a yearly pass for $30. If past patterns of park usage continued, about 500,000 frequent users would buy yearly passes, and 5 million would buy one-day passes. That would yield $21 million a year, which is nearly double the park's current operating budget. What the city now spends on the park could be used to provide free passes to the poor. People could buy passes at turnstiles, but there needn't be elaborate security at the park's perimeters. The park could borrow the honor system that game wardens use with hunters: let everyone enter unimpeded, but randomly ask to see a few people's passes once they're inside.
The new fees would deter some people from using the park, but I think overall attendance would actually increase once people saw what their money was buying: immaculate grounds, beautiful gardens, new playgrounds, supervised recreational programs, many more park rangers. Central Park could be as safe and well-maintained as Disney World, because its managers would have the same incentive as Disney's to keep the paying customers happy.
The city could offer a long-term lease to the conservancy or another group while still retaining the right to reject any major changes in the park's design. But the park's new keeper should be free to run it according to users' desires, not the whims of politicians. The loop road, for instance, which is now controlled by the Department of Transportation, would be much better off in private hands. I'd like to think that any cost-conscious park manager, unbeholden to the taxicab industry or to the elite that like to commute through the park in limousines, would ban cars because they discourage so many customers from using the park. At the very least, the park would benefit by collecting a stiff toll from cars to compensate for the revenue lost from all the walkers, joggers, bikers and skaters who could be using the road instead.
I can see just a couple of minor obstacles to a private Central Park: the voters and politicians of New York. But before you dismiss the scheme as morally repugnant, let me leave you with a lesson from another city park, in Seattle, which was studied by Terry L. Anderson and Jane S. Shaw of the Political Economy Research Center in Bozeman, Mont.
In 1887, two entrepreneurs in Seattle bought a magnificent stand of giant Douglas firs on the outskirts of the city and opened Ravenna Park. Soon, 8,000 people a day were paying an admission fee, equivalent to $3 today, to visit the preserve and hear nature lectures. Then the city bought the land and made it a free park. Within 15 years, all the giant giant firs, some of them 400 feet high and 20 feet in diameter, had mysteriously disappeared. Park employees, lacking any direct incentive to attract customers, either didn't bother protecting the firs from loggers or, more likely, cut down and sold the trees themselves. They probably looked up at the giant firs, computed the value of the timber and reached a crucial insight: a public park ultimately belongs to whoever is willing to pay for it. There is no such thing as a free park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL PARK (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; PRIVATIZATION PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); CITIES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CHARITIES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); HOSPITALS (69%); GARDENING (69%); BUDGETS (66%); BASEBALL (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



203 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 48; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 8308 words

HEADLINE: Daring Research or 'Social Science Pornography'?: Charles Murray

BYLINE: By Jason DeParle; Jason DeParle is a reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times.

 BODY:
THE MAN WHO WOULD ABOLISH welfare was flying to Aspen, Colo., sipping Champagne in the first-class cabin and spinning theories about the society unraveling 30,000 feet below. In the past, he says, people were poor because of bad luck or social barriers. "Now," he says, "what's holding them back is that they're not bright enough to be a physician."
It is precisely the kind of statement that makes Charles Murray so infuriating to so many people: sweeping, callous, seemingly smug. The words are harsh, but the voice is genial and oddly reassuring, suffused with regret. He switches to a Bordeaux and recalls his last approach to Aspen, on a private jet sent by Rupert Murdoch. 
 "Intelligence seems to blossom in the barest ground," he says, contesting the suggestion that the South Bronx is less nurturing than Scarsdale. "Now I know that's an odd thing to say about the inner city, but at least they're going to school and they have the television on all day. You couldn't say that about blacks 50 years ago."
A white wine follows, and Murray is bursting with anticipation about the corks that will pop later that evening at the home of wealthy Aspen friends. He is 51 and balding, but boyish in blue jeans and tennis shoes, and he leavens his sociological theories with personal asides. The stewardesses in Japan offered him "everything short of a body massage"; he boasts that his friends look at his wife with longing, "and think of what might have been." He is smart enough to know that he is inviting caricature, and bold enough not to care.
Outrageousness, after all, has been good to Charles Murray. He was an unemployed Ph.D. stuck in a midlife crisis a decade ago when he produced "Losing Ground," the book that eroded the assumptions guiding American social policy. With 236 pages of charts and tables, it lent an aura of scientific support to an old suspicion -- that welfare and other social programs cause more problems than they solve. Taking the thought a step further, Murray spoke the unspeakable: why not just abolish them all?
Now, if his name is not a household word, it is about as close as a social scientist can get. It is hard to know which is more startling -- that Murray would imagine before publication that the book might be "to the 1980's what 'The Other America' was to the 1960's," or that it was. Even his most bitter enemies concede his formidable intelligence, and in the wake of his antigovernment theories, it sometimes seems downright utopian for others to argue that Federal support can help the disadvantaged.
Though much of official Washington regards him as a menace, Murray's influence is still on the rise, both as the enemy of social programs and the champion of the two-parent family. His prophecy last year of a coming white underclass touched a national nerve, and it brought a flurry of proposals to deny welfare to young mothers. It also brought a surprisingly respectful comment from President Clinton. While he did not agree with Murray's solutions, the President said, the warning about out-of-wedlock births "did the country a great service."
With his new book, "The Bell Curve" (The Free Press), Murray has something even more dangerous and inflammatory on his mind: the relationship between race, class, genes and intelligence. Written with Richard Herrnstein of Harvard, who died last month at the age of 64, the book argues that I.Q. scores -- and their large genetic component -- are the key to understanding who gets ahead in America and who languishes in crime, poverty and dependency.
The authors say the country is witnessing the rise of a cognitive elite, people who are intermarrying and passing on to their children their genetic advantages. They see an underclass operating in reverse, with unemployed men and welfare mothers passing on genetic disadvantages in communities rife with disorder. As the gap widens between the mental haves and have-nots, the authors predict the rise of a new conservatism, "along Latin American lines," with the cognitive elite employing repressive, police-state tactics to protect themselves from the growing danger.
"Like other apocalyptic visions, this one is pessimistic, perhaps too much so," they write. "On the other hand, there is much to be pessimistic about."Unsurprisingly, Murray sees the low intelligence of the poor as a reason to abandon remedial education and similar programs designed to help them, since "for many people, there is nothing they can learn that will repay the cost of teaching."
For years, colleagues have been arching skeptical eyebrows at the work in progress, and the chapters on race show why. Although "The Bell Curve" is not primarily about race, it argues that differences in intelligence are an important reason that blacks are disproportionately poor, imprisoned and dependent on Government aid. And it suggests that at least some of those differences have genetic roots. "That's wild stuff," Murray says with pursed lips and a frown of concern. Like many others, he wonders whether the work will bring an end to his remarkable influence, or extend it into new, more outrageous realms.
HALFWAY TO ASPEN, MURRAY GRABS his laptop computer and demonstrates his research technique. How much can 15 I.Q. points be expected to raise a person's earnings? The machine, packed with data on 12,000 Americans, whirrs and makes a tongue-clucking sound, before spitting out its answer -- $6,654 a year. "See how fun this is!" he says.
Which white kids drop out of high school? More buttons, more whirring -- only those with low I.Q. scores and lower-class parents. "White trash," Murray says. While "that's obviously a generalization," he explains whom he has in mind -- people "sitting at home in their undershirts drinking, and they really don't care anyway." Murray's persona in print is that of the burdened researcher coming to his disturbing conclusions with the utmost regret; but at the moment, he seems to be having the time of his life. "It really is social science pornography," he says.
Social science pornography. The phrase may explain more about Murray's influence than he intended, and possibly more than he fully understands. Much of that influence has stemmed from his ability to express, through seemingly dispassionate analysis, many people's hidden suspicions about race, class and sex. His writings comprise a kind of Michelin guide to the American underpsyche.
The phenomenon is one that he himself has at least inadvertently acknowledged. "Why can a publisher sell it?" he asked in the proposal for "Losing Ground." "Because a huge number of well-meaning whites fear that they are closet racists, and this book tells them they are not. It's going to make them feel better about things they already think but do not know how to say."
Bob Dole and Newt Gingrich may have more power than Murray, and Rush Limbaugh and Pat Buchanan may have more direct influence. But no other conservative has his ability to make a radical thought seem so reasonable. Where others rant, Murray seduces with mountains of data and assurances of his own fine intentions. He will never be the country's most famous conservative, but he may well be the most dangerous.
Seventy-nine academic researchers signed a statement this spring condemning Murray's proposal to abolish welfare; they say it would "increase the incidence of homelessness and hunger among children." And in speeches in June and September, Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, called Murray's welfare solution "un-American" and "almost surreal." She likened it to Jonathan Swift's "modest proposal" that society eat poor children -- minus Swift's satirical intent.
The question now is whether, in his zeal to shatter taboos, Murray has finally gone too far. Murray was dropped from the Manhattan Institute, the think tank that had underwritten "Losing Ground," as soon as he began the new book. In an interview at the time, William Hammett, the institute's president, alternately praised Murray's integrity and worried that the book would broach "the genetic inferiority stuff." Murray quickly affiliated with the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. The Boston Globe began denouncing "The Bell Curve" this summer, months before it was publicly available. An article quoted scholars speculating that the book was based on pseudoscience, while the editorial page attacked the book's "high ignorance quotient."
The reason for the unease is no mystery: theories of genetic differences have a long and ugly history, especially when it comes to race. Herrnstein and Murray acknowledge as much, and worry that their book, "wrongly construed, might do harm." They hedge their bet slightly, saying the evidence "suggests, without quite proving, genetic roots" for part of the black-white difference. They even call the debate over genes a distraction from more important issues. But once again Murray may be saying with scientific references and assurances of his own good will what others murmur darkly in barrooms and taxis. And his disclaimers are unlikely to mute critics.
"We don't know anything relevant about how the physical processes of the brain differ by race," says Christopher Jencks, a sociologist at Northwestern University, after hearing a lengthy description of the Murray thesis. "There's a striking dearth of evidence.
"This seems to me a case where you ought to have really airtight evidence before you make claims," he continues. "Promulgating the view that, for some physical reason, blacks are unable to do certain intellectual work, reinforces every harmful stereotype we've inherited over 300 years."
Denunciations, firing -- no matter. For Murray, the prospect of trouble was always part of the project's appeal. "Here was a case of stumbling onto a subject that had all the allure of the forbidden," he says. "Some of the things we read to do this work, we literally hide when we're on planes and trains. We're furtively peering at this stuff."
Who is speaking here, an ideologue or a provocateur? Murray sees elements of both in himself but says at bottom he is neither. "The real answer is that I'm a social scientist, damn it, and a good one," he says. But the story is more complicated than that.
 PEERING FROM HIS WINDOW SEAT, Murray watches the buckled Eastern continent gentle into a Midwestern plain, and he searches for the Iowa town of Newton. He describes his childhood there as if gazing upon a faded photograph of a 1950's Lake Wobegon. The streets are shady, the fences are white and the parents are moral and married.
It is impossible to understand Murray without understanding Newton, or at least his interpretation of Newton, which drives his pronouncements on family and community. "My family was pretty much the way a family was supposed to be," he says, "a Norman Rockwell kind of family, I'm afraid. I say 'I'm afraid' because it will just confirm my critics' view that my views about family are unrealistic."
The story patched together from ground level in Newton is more nuanced. Murray was raised in a Midwestern household that stressed moral responsibility, the value that forms the core of his ideology. But his brainy, somewhat alienated youth also kindled his distinctive impulse toward rebellion.
Newton, now a town of 14,789, happens to be where F. L. Maytag manufactured his first appliance, and remains the headquarters of the Maytag Corporation. Murray's father, Alan, spent most of his career as a Maytag executive, rising quickly from working-class roots. The Murrays lived a half-mile from the country club in a neighborhood of managers who worked, golfed and voted Republican together.
If streets can embody a corporate ethic, these do -- one that dubs its employees "the dependability people." The homes are solid and proud, comfortable but not lavish. Alan Murray says a similar creed prevailed inside his family's home: "You were supposed to do what's right, and that was it."
But ask how Charles Murray became the person he is, and the answer usually comes compressed into two words: his mother. At 88, she retains the stage presence cultivated in a lifetime of amateur drama, and she is happy to take credit for sculpturing an ideology. "In his writings I see many things we talked about at our dinner table," she says. "Home background just comes out, that's all." Murray tells a vivid story of her bursting into "furious tears" when she learned that that he had accepted a stolen sweater from a friend.
He describes his youth as "a pretty typical story of the bright, quirky kid who doesn't quite fit in." In a community that stressed athletics, he played chess by mail and starred on the debate team. "I had friends, but I was always a bit weird," he says, recalling the time as a 9-year-old when he told a playmate he looked "rigid" when diving into the pool. "One of the kids said, 'rigid?' and started teasing me unmercifully for using a big word. I remember thinking to myself: 'Rigid? It's a little word. It's only five letters.' "
By his teens, Murray was moving from smart to smart aleck, a transformation he may never have reversed. It began at home, where the disputatious debate star began espousing labor unionism, a pose that so annoyed his parents it is the first thing they mention upon a visitor's arrival many decades later. "He was pro-labor, living on his father's management money," his mother says.
During his senior year of high school, Murray found a more satisfying form of rebellion -- decamping to the Newton pool hall, "where all the juvenile delinquents hung out." He discovered he was actually good at the game, and says that after years of semi-exile, "it was very gratifying to be accepted at that point by the hoods."
The hoods were struck by the change, especially after Murray returned home from college and announced his theory of love. "He was saying, 'To be more successful with women, you really have to have a background as a bit of an outlaw,' " says Denny Rutledge, who was still hanging around the pool hall.
While the basic facts of Murray's youth are not in dispute, his interpretation of them is. In Murray's memory, Newton becomes a kind of Jeffersonian village, where neighbors help neighbors and class distinctions are minor and "not invidious." It is a vision that shapes his hope of what society might look like if the misguided state would just get out of the way.
But Rutledge, who was arrested for theft in high school, says this is an airbrushed view. "That's incredibly myopic, totally inaccurate," he says. "There was a very big dividing line in Newton." Rutledge, who graduated from juvenile delinquency to social work (and, later, real estate) says his own, pained understanding of Newton's class structure was formed during his family's annual pilgrimage to look at the Christmas lights in the Murrays' neighborhood. He remembers thinking, "those people are the haves, and we're the have-nots, and we're not going to get there."
While there is much to admire about the industry and inquisitiveness of Murray's teen-age years, there is at least one adventure that he understandably deletes from the story -- the night he helped his friends burn a cross. They had formed a kind of good guys' gang, "the Mallows," whose very name, from marshmallows, was a play on their own softness. In the fall of 1960, during their senior year, they nailed some scrap wood into a cross, adorned it with fireworks and set it ablaze on a hill beside the police station, with marshmallows scattered as a calling card.
Rutledge recalls his astonishment the next day when the talk turned to racial persecution in a town with two black families. "There wouldn't have been a racist thought in our simple-minded minds," he says. "That's how unaware we were."
A long pause follows when Murray is reminded of the event. "Incredibly, incredibly dumb," he says. "But it never crossed our minds that this had any larger significance. And I look back on that and say, 'How on earth could we be so oblivious?' I guess it says something about that day and age that it didn't cross our minds."
MURRAY LANDED AT HARVARD IN THE fall of 1961, where by his own account he spent four mostly uneventful years, studying Russian history and working at a classical music station. Taking a "pride in perversity," he went out of his way to advertise his oddness, wearing his ties, for instance, with the fat end short. "I really had very few close friends," he says. Graduating in 1965, Murray left for the Peace Corps and stayed abroad for six years. "Thailand was the transforming experience in my life," he says. "Thailand is where I grew up."
Murray claims he joined less out of idealism than a desire for adventure, and he found some in the romance he kindled that summer in Hawaii with his language instructor, Suchart Dej-Udom. The daughter of a wealthy Thai businessman, she was born with one hand and a mind sharp enough to outscore the rest of the country on the college entrance exam. He proposed by mail in the fall of 1965 and their 14-year marriage began the following summer, a move that Murray now views as another youthful rebellion. "I'm getting married to a one-handed Thai Buddhist," he said. "This was not the daughter-in-law that would have normally presented itself to an Iowa couple."
If Newton is where Murray's antistate politics were planted, Thailand is where they began to sprout -- in part as the unintended consequence of the nation's privy program. The Peace Corps sent him from village to village, urging skeptical Thais to build and use modern sanitation, but Murray says his importunings had little effect. His father recalls him writing home to say, "It's hard to get a guy to build a well when he likes the taste of dead rats."
Murray's suspicions of Government initiative deepened after his tour ended. He found work with research firms doing counterinsurgency studies on behalf of the United States Government. The job sent him back into Thai villages, to assess the impact of programs designed to stave off rebellion with the provision of things like fish ponds, health clinics and roads.
But Murray concluded that the services had virtually no impact on the villagers' attitudes. They were much more interested in whether local chiefs could catch water buffalo thieves. "It became clear to me how utterly irrelevant Bangkok was to the life of the village," he says, adding that in some cases the Government intrusion even destroyed a delicate civic fabric.
The theory blossomed into a doctoral thesis in political science at M.I.T. It is a classic Murray work, filled with complex statistical considerations from which he drew a stark conclusion: "Thai villages show a remarkable latent ability to take care of their own affairs." It is a message that, in one form or another, Murray has been repeating ever since.
Murray retained enough residual liberalism in 1972 to contribute $5 to the McGovern campaign. But when he finally returned home a year later he was a married man with a child, and the country no longer looked the way it did when he left in 1965. Radical chic, Woodstock, the Black Panthers -- all had washed across the continent while he'd been pondering modernity in places called Pong and Khao Soi. "I read about the 60's in Time magazine," he says. Driving to work one day, he had a minor epiphany. "Gee," he told himself, "you really are a conservative."
Murray cemented the belief with a seven-year stay at the American Institutes for Research, a Washington organization that evaluates social programs -- none of which, he says, worked.
Murray's disillusionment had deepened on more than one level. His marriage had been unhappy for years, but his childhood lessons on the importance of responsibility brought him slowly to the idea that divorce was an honorable alternative, especially with young children involved. Then one day in 1980 he told his wife, "Life cannot go on like this." "He found he dreaded coming home," she recalls. When he could not bring himself to tell his parents, she made the call.
A year later, Murray made his second break, leaving the research firm. Though he had risen to the position of chief scientist, he sensed a futility in the work. He had written what he considered "gems of reports," but he knew they were mostly unread. His plans (and his means of support) were unclear, but a book began to take shape in his mind.
MURRAY BOUNDS FOR THE DOOR AS THE ASPEN runway halts the jet. By sundown his car is climbing toward the gated community of Starwood (home to John Denver and the Saudi Ambassador, Prince Bandar) and the wine cellar that has tantalized him for much of the day. His host, Irwin Stelzer, is gone on business, but he has left his wife, Cita, a wine list and decanting instructions -- a half-bottle of 1983 Chateau Margaux will be followed by the main event, a 1979 Petrus (retailing at $375 a bottle).
A business consultant whose clients include Rupert Murdoch, Stelzer once arranged for Murray to spend a month in England writing about the British underclass for The Sunday Times. The paper paid for Murray's family to accompany him, an arrangement Murray considered his payment for the work. But as a bonus, Stelzer had the paper drop Murray a $10,000 check. "He's the godfather," Murray says.
The Stelzer home happens to be the one where in 1976 Claudine Longet shot the skier Spider Sabich, and there is a requisite tour of the bathroom crime scene. Hummingbirds flit around the patio grill and the small talk eventually turns to Murray's work on I.Q. and race.
An Israeli cellist asks if Murray draws any conclusions about Africa's shortage of ancient literature. Murray says he does, and as the veal chops sizzle, he offers the Israeli a national compliment: "In terms of I.Q, you guys are off the charts." As the meal ends, a call is placed to the absent Irwin, and it falls upon Murray to deliver the bad news; the Margaux was somewhat tannic. "But the Petrus!" he says. "It's just been blossoming!"
The next morning brings a tougher audience. Murray is in town to address a retreat of foundation executives, sponsored by the Aspen Institute, and he will warn that welfare is driving illegitimacy and bringing society to the brink of collapse. The message is one he has perfected in the decade since "Losing Ground." It is a beguiling book, thick with statistics yet accessible, even lively, and steeped in a tone of good intentions. Scrapping the welfare system will not mean that stingy people have won, he wrote, but that "generous people have stopped kidding themselves." His calm marshalling of evidence, and would-that-it-weren't-so tone, made it a work that liberals could not simply dismiss.
By now, an army of critics has challenged some of the book's statistical underpinnings. Murray tied the soaring rate of out-of-wedlock births to the growth of the welfare system that supports single mothers. Critics say the relationship is, at most, indirect. Births to single mothers continued to rise, they say, even when benefits were holding steady or (depending how one calculates) in retreat. And they rose for middle-class women who never collected welfare. After a decade of esoteric statistical debate, Murray claims (plausibly, even to some detractors) to have shown at least a small link between benefit levels and out-of-wedlock births, though only among whites.
But it is another thing then to leap, as Murray does, to the assertion that abolishing welfare will immediately halve the number of out-of-wedlock births -- or that the resulting pain would be worth it. "There'd be a lot more homelessness, a lot more hunger and a lot more despair," says Robert Greenstein, until recently the director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington advocacy group.
But as out-of-wedlock births have continued to grow (more than 30 percent of Americans are now born to single mothers) so has Murray's influence. When "Losing Ground" first appeared in 1984, Murray's views were too radical even for Murray -- the book couches them as "a thought experiment," and not even Ronald Reagan would actually propose such a thing. But this spring a dozen Representatives stood in front of the Capitol and called for an end to benefits for mothers under 21. They would send the children of those who could not manage to state-run orphanages.
Similar proposals are backed by such glamorous Republican names as Jack Kemp and William Bennett. Murray may even be the first welfare analyst to see his work on the multiplex screen. When the makers of the Joe Pesci film "With Honors" wanted to depict the tough-minded undergraduate of the 90's, they showed a Harvard student with "Losing Ground" tucked under his arm.
Without undue armchair psychology, it is possible to see in this outcome the satisfaction of two of Murray's deepest, if contradictory, yearnings. With his speaking schedule, book sales and Congressional appearances, he has captured the respectability so valued in his childhood home. At the same time, he manages to remain the pool-hall outlaw with shocking views, luxuriating in the clucking disapproval of polite society.
His presence in Aspen is a bit of an event. His two co-panelists, Judith Jones of Columbia University and Frances Fox Piven of CUNY, berate him as a demagogue fueling the forces of reaction, but Murray has heard it all before. He genially professes "a lot of common ground" with his liberal antagonists, only to tick off his agenda: abolish welfare, abolish food stamps, abolish subsidized housing. Murray even wants to end child support payments to unwed mothers, arguing that physical unions acquire their legitimacy only through marriage. What would he tell a young, unwed mother? "I don't want society to say to her, 'You made a mistake,' " he says. "I want society to say, 'You did wrong.' "
Piven, looking aghast, accuses him of being "preoccupied with sin."
It is a provocative thought -- is Charles Murray, deep down, on an antisex crusade? The notion makes him laugh. As a policy analyst, he cares only that children are raised by two parents. Besides, he adds, "No young man who spent as many years in Bangkok as I did can be against sex."
It is a flamboyant comment, but Murray has been advertising his hormones throughout the trip. He let out a manly groan when a woman in a tube top passed him on the plane. He noted the shapely blond assistants staffing the seminar and gave thanks, as a married man who values monogamy, that he did not dwell permanently among them, shuddering at "the tension."
In fact, Murray has been raising the subject of his own sexuality throughout months of discussion. Speaking of his high-school girlfriend, he volunteered that "in those innocent days, we never had the experience," adding later that he feared "the worst would happen, the condom would break" and he would be forced into a teen-age marriage. He added sarcastically, "It probably accounts for the twisted views I have today."
What then, took place in Bangkok? Quite a lot, it seems, since his friends from those days still tell tales of Murray's barroom antics, ones that he nostalgically repeats. Murray explains that he and a Peace Corps friend once sat for 12 hours at a place called the Patpong Terrace, interviewing bar girls as they returned from their liaisons, taking "all sorts of intimate notes about who did what, that I don't care to repeat." The resulting document became an underground thriller among his friends.
Murray also makes clear that he did more than take notes, though he theatrically objects to hearing the women described as prostitutes. "Don't use that word," he says. "They were women of the evening. Courtesans. We liked them, and they liked us.
"In a lot of the places you had to woo the ladies," he continues. "It involves money on the man's part, yes, but it also involves consensual relations."
He understands that he is describing a pastime not usually associated with a defense of the two-parent family. "I'm trying to tell you I'm not against sex," he says, characteristically blunt.
"You," Murray concludes, "should have been so lucky."
THE CRITICS WHO SAY MURRAY IS living in the 1950's are, in at least one respect, off by more than a century. His home in rural Maryland, a half-hour outside Frederick, originally served as a tannery in the 1830's. Worried that the new book may bring threats of physical harm, he asks that the village's name be withheld. He lives there with his second wife, Catherine Cox, and their two young children.
The romance started a year after his divorce, when Cox, then teaching English literature at Rutgers, dropped him a letter. Their parents were close friends, but Murray, who is six years older, had never known her well. He invited her sailing, and they were married two years later. He wrote a chapter of "Losing Ground" on the honeymoon. "Catherine is just the person," he says. "We just fit like this utterly perfect fit."
There was one hitch -- his politics repelled her. Cox says she knew the relationship would never work as soon as she saw him reading the conservative author George Gilder, and she spent long hours trying to reconcile his Continued on page 62
shocking views with what she saw as his deep decency. "It took a long time for that to sink in," she says. "He really cares about people," she says.
By all accounts, Murray has managed the merger of his old family and his new one with unusual grace. Guilt-ridden over the divorce, he spent virtually every weekend with his daughters, Narisara and Sarawan, and friends say he sometimes turned down lucrative out-of-town engagements to do so. His ex-wife remarried first, and she says when Catherine was pregnant she told her, "Don't worry, Charlie's a good father." When Murray threw a 60th anniverary party for his parents, Suchart Dej-Udom Murray Milsted was on hand. "Everyone's healed nicely now," she says.
At least until the new book arrives. In Richard Herrnstein, Murray found his equal in two vital categories -- intelligence and shock value. Superficially, their backgrounds could not be more dissimilar. Herrnstein's parents were left-wing, Jewish immigrants from Hungary who raised him in a working-class neighborhood of the Bronx.
But as he told the story of his youth, in a long conversation last summer, it echoed with Murray-like themes of alienation and rebellion. He was packed off in Hungarian short pants and stockings to endure the taunts of grade-school classmates, and he acted up so much that his teachers used to lock him in the coat room. "I was raising hell most of the time," he said.
Though he was an acclaimed psychologist who held B. F. Skinner's former chair at Harvard, Herrnstein's notoriety stems from his nonacademic work. In 1971, he published an article in The Atlantic Monthly about the heritability of intelligence, famously predicting a future in which the "the tendency to be unemployed may run in the genes of a family about as certainly as bad teeth do now." Though Herrnstein dealt only peripherally with race, militant students branded him a racist, interrupted his lectures and, he said, threatened him with physical violence.
But he continued to write about intelligence, not only out of interest but also out of a sense of obligation. Scholars, like priests, he said, have a "calling to find the truth and disclose it." Meeting Murray at a conference, he told him "you ought to get into the I.Q. business," and the two quickly agreed to collaborate. Their paired sensibilities reminded one colleague of two kamikazes on a test flight.
The book begins by asserting a paradox: America, by its commitment to equal opportunity, is reordering society into increasingly unequal classes, with a prospering, intellectual elite at one end of the bell curve and a miserable, menacing underclass at the other. This inequality, it says, is the inevitable result of a modern economy that needs and rewards smart people. A true meritocracy is an astonishingly unequal place, since the abilities of individuals vary widely.
The argument goes like this:
The country has always had class divisions, but the criteria for them have changed. In the past, racial and class barriers kept smart people down, and privileged births lifted dim people up. In a world of bright farmers and dull senators, the rich weren't necessarily smart and the smart weren't necessarily rich.
But in midcentury, the economy vastly expanded its need for smart people, like engineers and computer programmers. And the educational system got increasingly efficient at finding them and channeling them into elite universities and prosperous careers. At the same time, there was little room for those with stong backs but dull minds, and a cognitive underclass settled like sediment. The result, they write, was a world "in which it became much more consistently and universally advantageous to be smart." The authors stress that they are merely describing this development, not celebrating it.
While lots of critics have worried about rising inequality, "The Bell Curve" veers away from more familiar discussions by its emphasis on genes. While others use words like "education" or "test scores" to describe the sorting mechanism at work, Herrnstein and Murray use the word "intelligence" and stress its genetic roots. Citing studies that estimate that from 40 to 80 percent of an individual's intelligence stems from genes, the authors take a midpoint of 60 percent. (The studies refer to how much an average individual's I.Q. is affected by genes, not to the cause of interracial differences in intelligence.)
While that would seem to leave a large role for environment, the authors insist that the differences separating one household from another are diminishing. (Unlike a century ago, for instance, virtually all children go to school.) As environmental differences narrow, heritability rises. Suddenly, they write, "success and failure in the American economy, and all that goes with it, are increasingly a matter of the genes that people inherit."
Herrnstein and Murray chase this vision to its apocalyptic conclusion. Smart people, intermarrying, will produce smart children; the disadvantaged will pass down their intractable handicaps; and the gap between the classes will grow. Skeptics may pin their hopes on "regression to the mean," the statistical phenomenon that predicts that two high-I.Q. parents will have children whose scores are lower, closer to the national average (just as two low-I.Q. parents are likely to have children whose scores are higher). But the authors say this force is overpowered by other factors, like the increasing tendency of the very smart to intermarry.
The book includes eight chapters of original research designed to correlate low I.Q. with a variety of social problems, including crime, poverty, out-of-wedlock births -- even bad child-rearing and poor citizenship. They are careful to stress that for any given individual, I.Q. scores may mean little; character, drive and luck may do much more to influence success. But they insist that the scores establish powerful patterns for people in the same cognitive range, meaning that inequality will increase.
Their prescriptions are, in many ways, a continuation of Murray's attacks on social programs. The authors want to abandon affirmative action, which they think poisons race relations by promoting unqualified blacks. They want to drop remedial education programs, which they think can never work, and spend the money on the talented students they say the economy really needs. They would alter immigration practices that they think are admitting people of less-than-average intelligence. And they would eliminate welfare and other Government benefits that, they believe, encourage women with low I.Q.'s to reproduce.
How all this would avert the apocalypse is unclear. If some people are really too dim to make it on their own, for instance, maybe welfare (or Government jobs programs) should be expanded. In the end, the Herrnstein-Murray solutions reside less in a specific set of policies than in a new set of expectations. Rather than trying to erase individual differences, they say, society should find ways for people of differing abilities to live with dignity.
They conjure a romantic vision of a world that strips power from the central Government and returns it to the neighborhood, where all people can engage "in the stuff of life -- birth, death, raising children, making a living, helping friends, singing in the local choir or playing on the softball team." The goal is to offer the less gifted something more precious than economic equality, "a place as a valued fellow citizen." While it's hard to see how this will shore up a collapsing society, the neighborhood does sound familiar. It seems a lot like the world Murray saw in Newton, one that perhaps even then did not exist.
EVEN SKEPTICAL READERS will find the book's central message disturbing. A country founded on the principle that people are created equal does not like to be reminded that people can have innate, limiting, differences.
But bleak as "The Bell Curve" 's vision may be, it is not entirely new. Herrnstein has been saying similar things for two decades. And the fear that a meritocratic society will prove a dystopian one is at least a half-century old. In 1958, the British sociologist Michael Young, a member of the Labor Party, sketched a similar scenario in his novel "The Rise of the Meritocracy." He saw the trend leading to an armed rebellion by the year 2034.
One group of skeptics will question whether intelligence is as newly influential, or as dominant, a force in American life as Herrnstein and Murray believe. They are almost certainly right that the intelligent person can rise more easily today than a century ago. But brains have always helped, even before such gifts could be measured at the end of a No. 2 pencil. Witness Huck Finn.
Others will question whether I.Q. really is, as Herrnstein and Murray assert, the all-encompassing measure of mental aptitude. One leading skeptic is Robert Sternberg, a Yale psychologist, who has pioneered the study of what he calls practical intelligence. He cites experiments among housewives who are failures at pad-and-pencil math but competent comparison shoppers when they hit the supermarket aisle. "That's not to say I.Q. counts zero," he says. "It's to say that there are other kinds of intelligence that are equally or maybe more important."
A third, and perhaps more powerful, criticism of the book will most likely involve its stress on genes, and the short shrift Murray gives to environmental factors. There is, at the heart of the book, a fundamental conflict between cause and effect. While it may be true that cognitive differences produce inequality, inequality also produces cognitive differences. Environment, especially the unspeakably bad environment of the black ghetto, must count for something.
Murray sounds surprised and alarmed that anyone would think "that we're hung up on genes," a puzzling protest given the book's clearly provocative assertion (to repeat) that "success and failure in the American economy, and all that goes with it, are increasingly a matter of the genes that people inherit" (emphasis added). Of course environment matters, Murray goes on to say, but no one knows how to change bad environments in ways that bring long-term cognitive gains. The book makes a case that Head Start and other programs have tried, only to leave behind "high hopes, flamboyant claims and disappointing results." Murray concludes that "the heritability of I.Q. is not a big deal in this book," but "the intractability of I.Q. is a very big deal."
It is true that the public often assumes that environmental differences can be easily remedied, while genetic differences are forever fixed. Theoretically, the opposite could someday be true: biological differences may be easier to rectify than social differences. But his late-hour protests aside, Murray has spent months arguing that cognitive differences are highly heritable and highly intractable.
He has repeatedly waved aside the suggestion that rotten homes and neighborhoods suffocate the intellectual development of the disadvantaged. When I asked him in August if his own children would test as well if they had been raised in the Robert Taylor Homes, the vast public housing wasteland in Chicago, he said, "It doesn't make a damn bit of difference -- their I.Q.'s are going to be the same, one way or another." Later, when I remind him of his words, Murray says he had given "the wrong answer," and speculates that his children would have done worse in school and possibly have become criminals or teen-age parents. Nonetheless, he adds, "they still would have tested pretty high on I.Q. tests."
Whichever shading represents Murray's deepest belief, it's clear that most Americans think that environment matters quite a lot -- especially those with the supposed genetic edge. The upper middle class is obsessive about getting its children in the right schools and test-prep courses. The Murray family seems no exception: before moving on to Harvard, Murray's older two daughters attended Washington's tony National Cathedral School (a decision he attributes to his ex-wife).
The emphasis on innate differences would be explosive enough, even if the subject of race never arose. But it does, and Murray knows an assault is coming. "Let's be sensible about this stuff," he says. "Let's not ignore it. Let's not run screaming from the room, either. That's not justified."
THIS MUCH IS KNOWN: blacks, on average, score about 15 points lower than whites on intelligence tests. Why that is, and what it means, are questions with a long and troubled past, marred by pseudoscience and racial animosity.
The most obvious explanation is that black children are more likely to grow up under handicapping circumstances like worse schools, poorer homes, inferior nutrition and violent neighborhoods. Indeed, as the overall gap in living conditions has narrowed, so, too, have the racial differences on test performance (although not as much as many people have hoped).
Other explanations for the differences involve test bias or differential motivation on the part of black children convinced of their own limited prospects. Herrnstein and Murray consider these theories but say they cannot explain the entire 15-point difference. They conclude that the evidence "suggests" that a portion of the gap -- they are agnostic about how much -- stems from "genetic roots."
What evidence? They cite studies showing the test differences persist even when class is held constant. They cite a survey in which a plurality of psychologists indicated that genetic factors helped explain racial differences. The authors also offer a Minnesota study of transracial adoption by the psychologists Richard Weinberg and Sandra Scarr. The study involved about 100 children born in the late 1960's, including black children adopted into upper-middle-class white homes.
At first, the new environments seemed to boost cognitive performance. At age 7, the adopted black children had I.Q.'s of about 97, above the racial average of 85. But a follow-up study 10 years later showed a fall-off to 89, only slightly above the national black average. White adoptees also declined, but had higher scores at both testings, falling from 117 to 106. Herrnstein and Murray conclude that "whatever the environmental impact may have been, it cannot have been large."
But that is not what Weinberg and Scarr emphasize. Their most recent paper, written with Irwin D. Waldman, claims to find "little or no conclusive evidence for genetic influences underlying a racial difference." Instead, they note that the black adoptees fared worse than white adoptees even before the adoption took place, thanks to longer stays in foster care and worse foster-care homes. They speculate that the blacks may also have encountered increased discrimination as they reached adolescence. They were, after all, still black children in a mostly white world.
Moreover, the psychologists found that although their I.Q. scores dropped, the black adoptees did better in school than other black children, suggesting their privileged home environments helped. Thus, "the balance of evidence, while not conclusive, favors a predominantly environmental etiology."
At this point, the debate gets both nuanced and nasty. Murray notes that if an explanation is "predominantly" environmental, then it is at least partly genetic. Weinberg says, "the genetic component may be skin color," which triggers a discriminatory social response. Weinberg calls Murray "acontextual." Murray attacks Weinberg for trying to "dance around the point."
Other scientists, meanwhile, say the whole inquiry is plagued by insurmountable methodological difficulties, that no one knows how to disentangle genes from the social impact of being raised black in America. Jonathan Beckwith, a microbiologist at Harvard Medical School, argues that scientists cannot measure genetic differences between the races "until we can identify a gene that's involved." He adds: "I don't think there is any evidence that would point toward a genetically based black-white difference in intelligence."
"The Bell Curve" devotes only 2 of its 22 chapters to race, and less than that to the subtopic of genes. It even asserts "that it matters little whether the genes are involved at all." There are manyoutstanding black minds, Murray says, just as there are many dull white ones; individuals should always be treated as such. Genetic differences between the races, he says, "are utterly irrelevant to the arguments of 'The Bell Curve.' "
But in a country where white people have claimed innate superiority for 300 years, the talk of genetic differences matters quite a lot. It could be put to any number of demagogic uses, at a time when many blacks are already willing to suspect the worst of whites. "The Bell Curve" acknowledges that I.Q. tests have been used to support "outrageous racial policies." And it notes that by 1917, the spread of the tests had led 16 states to pass forced sterilization laws (primarily for the mentally retarded). But the authors remain uninhibited by this history.
In the last chapter they say they will be pleased if the book brings a discussion of how to "manipulate the fertility of people with high and low I.Q.'s." Murray says he is talking about the elimination of welfare, not coercion, but given the history of eugenics it is a disturbing phrase nonetheless. It recalls the high-school prankster who burned a cross, only to learn later what the fuss was all about.
"I really don't think I'm a racist," he says, explaining he uses the word "think" only because he distrusts blithe assertions. "Deep down inside, I don't think I am. So if people say, 'You have a racial agenda,' I just say, 'No, I don't.' "
THERE ARE AT LEAST TWO people in America who hold Charles Murray in special esteem, even as they judge his ideas skeptically against their own difficult lives. They live in a weatherbeaten farmhouse, down five miles of gravel road, just past a junkyard, outside of Baxter, Iowa. Kaye and Jerry Postma are two of Murray's oldest friends.
A visitor is deluged with engaging stories about the man Kaye theatrically calls "Mr. Murray." Kaye adopts an arch voice and remembers Murray sauntering in from Harvard to declare, "you remind me of a Rubens." Jerry recalls a visit to Washington, when a neighborhood kid volunteered that Murray had odd views about race. "The kid said, 'Just say something to him bad about blacks, and he'll just get up and leave,' " he recalls.
It is clear that Murray sees the Postmas as something special as well -- the ideal denizens of the Jeffersonian village he wants this country to become. He regards Jerry, who works at the Maytag factory, as "kind of a saint figure." He notes the dozens of championship baking ribbons that line Kaye's kitchen wall -- betraying a depth of talent that her day job, as a nursing aide, disguises. When he talks about a place for the "valued fellow citizen," the Postmas are who he has in mind.
But ask the Postmas about abolishing welfare and they reply that one of their daughters has relied on it. 'It's just more complicated than Mr. Murray has any idea," Kaye says. "The girl falls in love with this total, freakin' bum. She thinks she can change him.
"The last thing on these people's minds is whether or not they'll have welfare," she continues.
When the topic turns to "The Bell Curve," the emotions rise another notch. Kaye is white, but one of her daughters has married a black man, and her living room boasts a portrait of three black grandchildren. Her response to a "Bell Curve" paragraph about race, genes and I.Q. recalls Murray's admonition not to "run screaming from the room," since that is precisely what she does.
"I get so emotional," she says, stomping around the house. "As a mother, I get a lump in my throat. I just don't think humankind needs to hear how much smarter this one is than that one. I just don't have that much faith in statistics. I don't think that can ever be proven."
In her view, Murray is still playing the precocious tricks he perfected in seventh grade, when his antics tied their teacher into knots. "He'll take off on one little piece of lint in an argument and make a furball out of it," she says.
But when the evening ends, she sends her visitor packing with a gift for her contrarian friend -- a slice of blueberry pie, freshly baked in her championship kitchen. "No matter what," she says, "I adore him."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1991, Murray defended his collaborator and guest lecturer, Dr. Richard Herrnstein, to reporters at the University of Denver, while outside . . .; . . . demonstrators had a few words of their own for Herrnstein, who had drawn fire for years over his writings on the heritability of intelligence.; Herrnstein in 1971, the year he published his ground-breaking essay in The Atlantic Monthly.; Murray met his first wife, Suchart Dej-Udom, a Thai language teacher, in the Peace Corps in 1965. Marrying her was another act of youthful rebellion, he says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH SAAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE DENVER POST; UPI/BETTMANN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (74%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEACE CORPS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (74%); COLORADO, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; INTELLIGENCE; GENETICS AND HEREDITY; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WELFARE (US) HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); CITY LIFE (67%); TRENDS (61%); MASSAGE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; MURRAY, CHARLES; HERRNSTEIN, RICHARD J KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



204 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: On Language;
Ragtag Modalities

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

 BODY:
Before President Clinton put military muscle behind his negotiations in Haiti, his attempted intimidations, exhortations and dire warnings aimed at the local junta were summed up as huffing and puffing.
"Heralded by the huffing and puffing of a spin doctorate gone wild" were the words of one hawkish polemicist in The New York Times, while The Washington Post headline over a Mary McGrory column was "Huffing and Puffing Over Haiti." 
 Puff is the older word, from Old English pyffan, of imitative origin, meaning "to blow in short gusts" or, metaphorically, "to inflate; make proud or conceited." Richard Brinsley Sheridan, in a 1779 play, wrote of "a practitioner in panegyric, or, to speak more plainly, a professor of the art of puffing." From the powder puff, a soft and fluffy pad for dispensing talc and other cosmetics, came the puff piece, or "adoring article."
In the scruffy 60's, "Puff (the Magic Dragon)" was a children's song popularized by Peter, Paul and Mary with what some suspected to be a subtext of smoking dope.
Huff -- "to bluster, to emit puffs of breath in anger" -- gained a meaning in 1599 of "a short spell of anger," as in "to leave in a huff." In this century, it was automicized as "a six-cylindered Huff."
The two verbs were combined in the nursery tale of "The Three Little Pigs," as the wolf warned, "I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your house in." (Other versions use "blow your house down," but the 1933 Disney movie version helped immortalize "blow your house in" as a rhyme for each pig's refusal to give entry: "Not by the hair of my chinny-chin-chin!") Thus the combination of huff and puff came to mean "bombastic threats" to be derided.
Another old word leaped into vogue during the huff-puff period: "The American military will make quick work of Haiti's ragtag army," Jim Hoagland wrote in The Washington Post. The Economist agreed: "America's 20,000 troops . . . can make short work of the raggle-taggle Haitian forces on shore."
The expression began as tag and rag in the 16th century; the rags conjured an image of motley, a woolen fabric of mixed colors worn by jesters; hence, ragtag became "a motley, or variegated, crowd of misfits." By the 1820's, it evolved in the world of politics as ragtag and bobtail, an aristocrat's contemptuous term for "rabble." As a rhyming modifier, ragtag is being used outside of Haiti discussions. Asked on "60 Minutes" last month about his inner-city childhood, Kweisi Mfume, the Maryland Representative who is chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, said, "I was a ragtag kid in the streets."
A snippet of bureaucratese also made its way to the forefront. Asked whether high-level emissaries were on their way to the junta, Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, noted that "the time has long passed for negotiations" but added, "If the dictators were willing to leave, we'd be willing to discuss the specific modalities of their departure."
Ms. Myers is not the sort to dip naturally into diplolingo; that word, a favorite of the Kissinger era, was drilled into her by a foreign-policy wonk. Modalities means "means," as opposed to ends; structure, not substance; the trappings rather than the essence. It is often a sneer word, akin to "technical details," unless you are in charge of the communications or security of a negotiation.
"The last time modalities was on center stage," comments the lexicographer Anne Soukhanov, "was during the 1970's when the Vietnam War peace talks were going on." She traces the diplomatic sense of modalities back to 1957 and points out that its use in negotiating is almost invariably as a plural. "If usage of modalities transcends diplomacy and seeps into the general parlance, it, like methodology, may become an abusage issue," Ms. Soukhanov adds.
"Clinton, Advisers Consider 'Endgame' Plans on Haiti," read a Washington Post headline, based on an unattributed quote from an official talking about "endgame planning." End game began more than a century ago as a chess term, like the older gambit ("opening gambit" is redundant, as is "final endgame"). By 1964, the novelist Vladimir Nabokov was using it as a single word: "We'll simply take the endgame position at the point it was interrupted today." In diplolingo, endgame is usually followed by exit strategy, first used in business in the late 1970's.
Foreign-policy crises can often produce new diplolingo. Just as the Cuban missile crisis in 1962 produced hawks and doves, an early American metaphor recoined by the columnists Charles Bartlett and Stewart Alsop, and eyeball to eyeball, a popularization of an Army phrase by Secretary of State Dean Rusk, the Haitian occupation produced the noun de factos, used repeatedly by Secretary of State Warren Christopher. In a White House briefing on Sept. 18, he referred to "factors that conjoined to convince the de factos that the time had come for them definitely to go" and "it became apparent to the de factos that they were going to be taken out in other ways."
This was taken from the Latin words for "in fact," often contrasted to de jure, "in law." The two Latin phrases became familiar to most Americans in the 60's to describe forms of segregation in education, when de jure segregation was struck down while de facto segregation was still tolerated, not deliberately caused by public policy. De jure can be used pejoratively, to mean "in name only": A slashing vituperator in Washington often titled Janet Reno "Attorney General de jure," suggesting that her then-deputy, Friend of Bill Webster Hubbell, was Attorney General de facto.
In the Haitian case, Secretary Christopher, after a thousand mentions of the Raoul Cedras junta as "the de facto government," began shorthanding his reference by calling the generals "the de factos." (If you don't think shorthand can be used as a verb, longhand me a postcard.) The columnist Richard Cohen doesn't think the coinage will last: "Sounds too much like 'mobster Joey DiFacto and his gang.' "
In the eyeball-to-eyeball moments of the crisis, a curious usage began to be heard around Foggy Bottom: "We're on spilkes here." This was a mispronunciation of the Yiddish term shpilkes, "pins," metaphorically extended to the American dialect term "pins and needles" -- the prickly feeling accompanying nervous apprehension -- similar to the stretched-out, vulnerable feeling of being "on tenterhooks."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MAMMALS (89%); ARMIES (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



205 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 36; Column 4; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: Life Is Just a Bowl of Rhubarb Crisp (And So Easy!)

BYLINE: By JILL GERSTON 

DATELINE: WESTPORT, Conn.

 BODY:
MARTHA STEWART IS CUTting up. Maybe it's because she has spent three hours sprinkling fistfuls of dried rose petals and lavender blossoms into little sachet bags over and over in front of a television crew crammed into her country kitchen. Or maybe it's because she has forgotten that she is wearing a hidden microphone.
Whatever the reason, Ms. Stewart, who has inspired legions of women to tie leek ribbons around their lamb chops and dip chocolate truffles in gold leaf, is drolly parodying her image as Our Lady of Gracious Living. "If you really want to be an obnoxious house guest, take your hostess a pie kit," she deadpans, displaying a basket of fresh peaches, a porcelain pie dish, a rolling pin, a frozen pie crust and a handwritten recipe card an assistant arranges before her. "It will force her to bake you a pie." The crew cracks up. 
 Don't expect such levity on Ms. Stewart's weekly syndicated how-to show, "Martha Stewart Living," which began its second season last month. On camera she is an earnest, omnicompetent perfectionist who reassures viewers that with just a little effort and a lot of time, they, too, can make sugared rose petals. But, then, Ms. Stewart seems supremely accomplished in virtually all she undertakes, with the market for her life-style empire burgeoning as robustly as her 125 varieties of roses.
During its first season, her television series had an average national audience of nearly two million viewers, according to the Nielsen ratings -- healthy numbers considering that the show is broadcast at the crack of dawn in some cities. And her magazine, Martha Stewart Living, with its circulation of 800,000, recently switched from 6 to 10 issues a year. "We get about 500 subscription requests a week from viewers who phone the 800 number given on the show," marvels Eric G. Thorkilsen, the magazine's publisher, who oversees all Martha Stewart Living projects at Time Inc. Ventures. "The show and the magazine are incredibly complementary."
That's not all. Ms. Stewart's 11 sumptuously illustrated books have sold more than 2.8 million copies, and a new one, "Menus for Entertaining," is due later this month. She appears every other week on the "Today" show demonstrating topics from her magazine to a bemused Katie Couric and Bryant Gumbel. K Mart, which sells her collections of sheets and towels, recently renewed her consulting contract. American Express tapped her to do the first commercial for their Optima True Grace card. Never mind that Ms. Stewart's fans include domestically challenged multitudes who are dumbstruck at the thought of making topiary Easter baskets, the numbers are impressive indeed.
Yet it is the television series that is perhaps her most potent marketing medium. Just what are the ingredients in each half-hour episode? Guidance on how to do everything -- cut a grapefruit, build a trellis, bake a rhubarb crisp, plant succulents in a wall garden -- offered with the flair and perfection you would expect from a woman who once catered parties for Ralph Lauren and Paloma Picasso. "My viewer absolutely knows I'm using a delicious fresh-roasted espresso for my ice cubes and not some awful coffee," she says, discussing a segment on making flavored ice cubes. "Not that you can taste it over television, but you can imagine that it tastes really good. It's not just the how-to tip but the way it's done."
And the way it looks. The series is shot primarily on location at Ms. Stewart's renovated 1805 "farmette," a lush six-acre spread in Westport that includes fruit orchards, gardens, a croquet lawn, a pool, a barn and a "palais des poulets" for her exotic Araucana chickens, which lay pastel-blue eggs. "We could never duplicate this place as a set," says Leslie McNeil, the executive producer of the show.
Nor could they duplicate Ms. Stewart, 53, whose outdoorsy, tawny blond looks, preppy clothes and finishing-school voice make her the consummate guide to the world of upper-middle-class suburban "homekeeping." For the lure of "Martha Stewart Living" isn't learning to construct a gingerbread mansion with a copper-leaf mansard roof or grilling Cornish game hens in a marinade of Grand Marnier and orange juice. Instead it is the fascination of watching Martha --
 
devotees call her Martha, never Ms. Stewart -- enact her perfectly fabulous "Martha Stewart Living" life.
Watch Martha clean her vast collection of copper pots. Watch Martha, dressed as a rare bird with a little nest of twigs and faux quail eggs on her head, ride a hay wagon to a Halloween party. Watch Martha garnish her Easter ham with pea vines plucked from her garden. Watch Martha to escape from a world of plastic shower curtains and microwaved pizza into a fantasy of flawless domesticity.
"Remember when those shows 'Dallas' and 'Dynasty' were really popular?" Ms. Stewart says of the television series that epitomized the unembarrassed extravagance of the 1980's. "People were living vicariously through them. I think my approach is so much more simple and so much nicer a life style. People understand."
Understand? Crave is more like it. Ms. Stewart's followers swoon over her every piece of Depression glass, her every copper pudding mold. One besotted disciple requested the pedigree of Ms. Stewart's cats so she could buy the same.
In person Ms. Stewart is funny and vivacious and exudes an aura of brisk efficiency. "I rarely, rarely sit down and do nothing," she says, over a salad at a Westport restaurant during a break from shooting. "I hate to waste time," an assertion confirmed by Richard Z. Chesnoff, a senior correspondent for U.S. News & World Report, who has known Ms. Stewart for nearly 20 years.
"Once my wife and I were with Martha at her house in Easthampton, and I noticed her light was on very late at night," he says. "She told me she keeps her light on all night so if she wakes up she can immediately read. It sounds obsessive, but it's not. It's just Martha's determination not to waste time."

IT'S HER SUPERWOMAN IMage, along with her penchant for painstaking, time-consuming projects, that irritates Ms. Stewart's detractors. "How do you manage to do all that gardening and still keep up with the other stuff, the writing, the editing, the designing, the TV shows, the lectures, the autograph sessions?" wrote Diane White, a columnist for The Boston Globe, who has devoted several irreverent columns to Ms. Stewart. "Have you had yourself cloned?"
Ms. Stewart shrugs off such grousing. "I really can't be bothered by it," she says. "For people to criticize me, I think, is pretty stupid because I'm not doing anything bad or distasteful. If they think that freezing ice cubes in different flavors is too complicated and will clutter their lives, you have to take it with a grain of salt."
While Ms. Stewart's spectacular success may lead some to think she has lead a totally charmed life, her background reveals otherwise. Born Martha Kostyra, the eldest daughter of a pharmaceuticals salesman and a schoolteacher, Ms. Stewart was raised in a large Polish-Catholic family in Nutley, N.J. A straight-A student, she won a partial scholarship to Barnard College and worked as a model to help pay expenses.
At the end of her sophomore year, she married Andrew Stewart, a law student at Yale. She graduated from Barnard in 1963 and two years later gave birth to a daughter, Alexis (29 now and the owner of the Bridgehampton Motel, on Long Island). For eight years Ms. Stewart worked as a stockbroker but quit Wall Street during the 1973 recession.
That year, the Stewarts relocated to Westport, where they renovated the large Federal-style farmhouse that now serves as the primary set for her show. In 1976 Ms. Stewart, who learned how to cook as a child and catered her first party in high school, started a catering business with a friend. The partnership soon dissolved, but Ms. Stewart forged ahead, working out of her kitchen with a staff of assistants. Within a decade Martha Stewart Inc. had ballooned into a $1 million business.

IN 1982 MS. STEWART PUBlished "Entertaining," a lavish coffee-table cookbook that launched the Martha craze. Quicker than you could say "creme brulee," there appeared videos, lectures, seminars, dinner-music CDs, cable-television specials and more books.
But Ms. Stewart's frenetic business schedule took a toll on her private life. In 1987 while she was on a publicity tour for her book "Weddings," her husband moved out of their Westport house after 26 years of marriage. The bitter breakup ended in divorce in 1989.
Alas, real life is never perfect. Roses wilt, roasts burn and marriages crumble. Does she like being single? "Not necessarily," she replies tersely.
Who, then, does America's premier homemaker make a home for? "I make a home for myself," she says evenly. "I love my home."
Homes, to be precise. In addition to her Westport residence, where she lives with her two chows and six Himalayan cats, Ms. Stewart has a beach house in Easthampton. There is also a New York pied-a-terre that she has owned for five years but in which she has never spent a night. And her 35-acre property near Fairfield, Conn., is, as she puts it, "my major gardening project."
Is there anything missing from her life?
"I wish I had had more kids, but I'm gratified that I have a lot of nieces and nephews," she says, glancing at her watch. Lunch is over. It's time to hurry back to shooting.
"I'm not an unhappy person," she adds, momentarily reflective. "I wish people understood me better. I'd like to have my negotiations on all my business things be shorter. Silly things like that. But on the whole, I haven't had many disappointments. I've really been pretty lucky."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martha Stewart, left, in her kitchen for the taping of her weekly series. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MARTHA STEWART LIVING (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: TIME INC (82%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (88%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); 

PERSON: GERSTON, JILL; STEWART, MARTHA MARTHA STEWART (90%); KATIE COURIC (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



206 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Where Children Are Supposed to Be Heard, Not Simply Seen

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN 

 BODY:
LITTLE people scurry about the old wooden building, sliding down a pole in a miniature firehouse, yelling, squealing, tossing plastic fruit and vegetables into a basket in a little grocery store, ringing a cash register, making the lights flash on a rail crossing signal, feeling the skull of a grizzly bear or a real crocodile's skin, shaking plastic bottles that show how waves and hurricanes form.
This is the old East Lyme Library building on Main Street in the village of Niantic. Once known as a place to be quiet, it is now the Children's Museum of Southeastern Connecticut. 
It is now also a place to be noisy as well as a hands-on museum in the purest sense of the word. The people who run it want children to have fun in it, to explore all its objects close up, to feel them, turn them over, play with them, talk, laugh, yell if they feel like it. And, not incidentally, gain some knowledge.
"We call it low-tech learning," said Anthony W. Mollica. "We build a kite to explain aerodynamics. It's down-home kind of stuff."
Mr. Mollica, burly and bearded, is the museum's executive director. He brings to the job the enthusiasm of a 4-year-old although he is a 40ish-year-old. And the job does have its moments.
One day last fall, he said, an older woman dropped in at the museum and offered the contents of a cardboard box as a gift. "My husband had this up in the attic for years," she said, "and I don't want to keep it another minute." Inside the box, in some disorder and wrapped in a New York Times of the 1970's, was a human skeleton. "I think her husband was a doctor or something," said Mr. Mollica. In any case, he happily accepted the offering. Now, with all bones in their right places, the skeleton has joined the museum as one more exhibit.
He doesn't think the skeleton will scare children, who have a natural sense of curiosity. It might scare some adults, but the museum is not for adults.
Adults, said Mr. Mollica, are out of place in this museum: "Kids are the bosses here. This place empowers kids." And many times the empowered children amaze him and other adults, mostly volunteers, who work at the museum. Most children are content to slam away at the keys of an organ made especially for, and donated to, the museum. "But one day this 8-year-old kid came in and played Beethoven on it," Mr. Mollica said. "It was beautiful."
The private nonprofit museum represents a real grass-roots effort. It was originated by two local men, Andy Pappas, who runs Constantine's Restaurant, and Jay Gionet, an engineer at the Millstone Point nuclear power plant. "We're both young guys with families," Mr. Pappas said, "and we thought we needed something for the quality of life for young kids growing up here."
On Nov. 7, 1992, the something became a reality. The children's museum was officially opened in the old library building that had been vacant for some time. The metamorphosis into a museum was accomplished by some 150 volunteers, including many skilled people, with advice and guidance from educators and parents, lots of donated materials and 1,500 persons who took out memberships in the venture.
Within months after the opening, however, the founders realized they had become victims of their own success. "When we went to the Board of Selectmen for permission to use the old library, we thought the museum might get 30,000 people a year," Mr. Pappas said. But visitors were showing up at twice the numbers projected and the founders realized they were amateurs in a complicated business. They decided they needed professional help.
Mr. Mollica was hired in 1993. A native of New York, he had been director of the Children's Museum of Maine at Portland for seven years. He was willing to leave there, he said, because he and his wife had two young sons and he felt they were growing up in a limited environment with no racial or ethnic variety.
The actual attendance for the first full year of 1993 was 57,000. This year it is anticipated it will be between 60,000 and 75,000. The museum is much more than a regional attraction. The visitor's log, Mr. Mollica said, contains names of people from all 50 states and 17 foreign countries. "We get people regularly from the Bronx and Brooklyn," he said.
The success already has spurred plans for a larger museum. An application for a state grant for $2 million, half of the proposed cost, has been submitted. For a small hometown enterprise that did not even exist two years ago, with almost no advertising budget, with precious little parking in its present location, in a state suffering many economic woes, the children's museum has proven to be a big surprise.
One theory has it that the success is a spinoff, reflecting the increased traffic to Southeastern Connecticut engendered by the Mashantucket Pequot casino in Ledyard. But a look inside the museum on any day rather discounts that. The people inside are parents, or grandparents, with young children. It does not appear that their next stop is a slot machine.
The real reason for its popularity appears to be that it is a place to have fun, a haven for parents and grandparents seeking safe and enjoyable places to take children.
Mr. Mollica also feels the success of the museum is in line with a burst of enthusiasm for children's museums generally. The museums represent a real growth industry, proliferating at a spectacular pace over the past two decades, not only in the United States but around the world, he said.
The first such museum in this country, he said, was the Brooklyn Children's Museum, founded in 1892. By 1960, however, fewer than a dozen existed in the United States. By the mid-1970's, the figure had mushroomed to about 75. That figure has more than tripled since. Now there are some 250 in this country and another 50 in other countries.
The man most responsible for creating the modern image of the children's museum, Mr. Mollica said, was Michael Spock, head of the Boston Children's Museum in the 1960's and 1970's.
Before Mr. Spock, son of the baby doctor Benjamin Spock, children's museums were mostly showcases for toys, games and even clothes, generally seen behind ropes or under glass. Mr. Spock redesigned the concept on the basis that children learn by smelling and touching and doing. The day of the "hands-on" children's museum had arrived.
On a recent day, a young mother from Albany, N.Y., Linda Collet, watched her 3-year-old daughter, Amanda, frolic around the Niantic museum. She admired the place, and then perhaps best summed up the secret of its success. "They allow children to be children here," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A hands-on exhibit that offers visitors food-shopping experience. (Pg. 1); The Children's Museum of Southeastern Connecticut in Niantic encourages visitors to look at the exhibits up close. Andre Douglas, 8, checks his reflection in a concave mirror. (Pg. 6) (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S MUSEUM OF SOUTHEASTERN CONNECTICUT

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S MUSEUM OF SOUTHEASTERN CONNECTICUT

GEOGRAPHIC: NIANTIC (CONN); UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CHILDREN (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (73%); RAIL CROSSINGS (72%); 

PERSON: RYAN, BILL ANTHONY W MOLLICA (91%); ANDY PAPPAS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



207 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
When Housing Comes, Can Stores Be Far Behind?

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
ONE day last year Charles J. Diven Jr. was operating a backhoe at Park Avenue and 179th Street in the Bronx. He was approached by a stranger.
"I've got to get a hole dug over on Third Avenue," the stranger said. "How much would you charge me?" 
 The contractor dug the hole. One thing led to another and now Mr. Diven is putting the final touches on a 9,600-square-foot commercial structure on Prospect Avenue for that stranger, George Hatzis, who never owned a commercial building in his life. It has fallen to the 56-year-old Mr. Hatzis, who emigrated from Greece in 1968, to be the first entrepreneur to stake his personal financial future on new commercial construction in what until recently was one of the most blighted South Bronx neighborhoods.
Mr. Hatzis has operated a succession of modest pizza parlors with a touch of Greek cuisine over the last 10 years. Once he was a renter in a structure on the very site where he is now building. It burned down.
The new building is at 839 Prospect Avenue, at 160th Street, just off Westchester Avenue. Looming over it is the Prospect Avenue station stop for the Nos. 2 and 5 subway trains, which run a long elevated course along Westchester Avenue en route to Pelham Parkway and beyond.
Old-timers remember Prospect Avenue as a thriving commercial strip at the eastern edge of Morrisania near Hunts Point. "It had three movie theaters, a Woolworth's and a bank," said John Robert, the district manager of Bronx Community Board 2.
But it staggered in the 70's under the pressure of housing abandonment and commercial withdrawal. Great stretches of city-owned land nearby were ultimately cleared.
The most visible sign of the current comeback is a wave of new residential construction launched under the Nehemiah Plan name with city assistance by South Bronx Churches Inc. on 20 blocks west of Westchester Avenue. Attached single-family houses have sold to moderate-income buyers for $56,000, and now condominiums in three-story buildings are on the market for $61,000 to $69,000.
As in other locations of the city, new housing has paved the way for commercial construction. The construction loan for the Hatzis project on Prospect Avenue has come from the Community Preservation Corporation, a consortium of banks better known for its lending to multifamily housing in New York City. It has a lending office in the Kingsbridge section of the Bronx and an arrangement to sell the loan, once the project is successfully completed, to the New York City Employees Retirement System. The permanent loan will be insured by the State of New York Mortgage Agency, the key to making financing available.
Long hoping to own his own store, Mr. Hatzis had bought land at Third Avenue and Courtlandt Avenue at a city auction in the 80's. He got so far as to put in footings for the foundation. But he found himself unable to get financing that he had hoped for through the Small Business Administration. He said he had borrowed $100,000 on the equity in his house, and spent $35,000 on site work.
About eight years ago he also bought the land on Prospect Avenue from its Korean owners. "I worked with a pizza guy on that site from 1968 to 1971," he said. Later he opened his own place on the corner. But the building, which was owned by the Goldman-DiLorenzo real-estate organization, burned down in the early 80's, he said.
Mr. Diven, who is 29, is in partnership with Leonard P. Gorski, 33, in LPG Associates, a construction management and contracting firm based in Mount Vernon in Westchester County. It has rehabilitated vacant residential buildings with Community Preservation Corporation financing. Mr. Diven brought Mr. Hatzis to the lender with the proposal for the project, which got a construction loan and a commitment for a $645,000 permanent loan at 8.17 percent.
The simple masonry building has 75 feet of frontage on Prospect Avenue and runs 125 feet deep along 160th Street. The basic individual store area is 12 1/2 feet by 90 feet.
THE operator of a coin laundry and dry cleaners has leased two spaces, Mr. Hatzis said. He also has deals for a fish store and a Chinese restaurant, and he himself will operate a store. He calls it a coffee shop although he will mainly offer pizza and Greek specialties. There is a possibility an ice cream company will take space at the rear of the building.
Another neighborhood retail project in the Bronx that is getting financing through the Community Preservation Corporation is at 1316 Boston Road, in Morrisania. There will be four stores totaling 3,800 square feet of space. The builder is Steve Zervoudis, who has also rehabilitated 15 multifamily buildings in the area.
To get new retailing established in formerly blighted urban neighborhoods that have had a surge in new or rehabilitated housing has proved a challenge, said Michael D. Lappin, president of the Community Development Corporation. Many retailers are skeptical about safety and the purchasing power of neighborhood residents.
But housing improvement brings change. Mr. Lappin gave lower Harlem as an example. With the completion of 3,500 new apartments in rehabilitated buildings, commercial activity has picked up along 116th Street west of Malcolm X. Boulevard, he said.
Mr. Hatzis, in the Bronx, will find a neighborhood with a substantial housing build-up thanks to the Nehemiah program. The plan already approved calls for 780 housing units, 380 of them in one-family houses and 400 in three-family buildings, according to the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. The city is providing a subsidy of $15,000 a unit.
Near Westchester Avenue many single-family houses have already been completed and occupied, and the three-families are in construction. Each building provides two duplex apartments above a single-level flat, with pad parking typically at the rear.
BUYERS are offered two- and three-bedroom units, with air-conditioning, washers and dryers and one and a half baths for a down payment of $7,500. The monthly carrying cost is advertised as $450. Buyer incomes can range from $20,000 to $53,000.
Lee Stuart, lead organizer of South Bronx Churches for the Industrial Areas Foundation, a Long Island-based organization that mobilizes religious institutions for social causes, gave the following progress report on the Nehemiah program in the Bronx: 224 single-family houses and 84 condominiums completed and occupied; 144 condominiums under construction, with 36 due to close in the next few weeks; plans already submitted for the next 90 condominiums.
Eighty percent of the buyers thus far have been from a Hispanic background, Ms. Stuart said. One buyer was Mary Martinez, a legal secretary who said she feels as though she is living in a "whole different world" since she was able to leave public housing in Mott Haven after 20 years and move with her sister, mother and 4-year-old daughter into a single-family house on Eagle Avenue last October. "I don't feel threatened anymore," she said.
Ms. Martinez was a volunteer worker for South Bronx Churches, as was Lorraine Lett, who moved with her husband, John, a retired schoolteacher, into a duplex condominium on Cauldwell Avenue in June. The Letts lived for 30 years in a public housing project on 170th Street. Mr. Lett had wanted to move out of New York City for years because he was "fed up with the crime," his wife said. For a long time he didn't care for the idea of a Nehemiah house either.
"But when he saw the new buildings he dragged me over there and he never mentioned leaving New York again," she said. Now she sees a need for more neighborhood shopping. "We need banks, bakeries, a restaurant, even a mall, anything that will bring services into the community," Mrs. Lett said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A city-assisted housing program in the Morrisania section of the Bronx has spurred store construction by George Hatzis, shown with his contractor, Charles J. Diven Jr., at right, at 839 Prospect Avenue. Above, some of the new condominiums, at Union Avenue and 161st Street. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY PRESERVATION CORP (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; PROSPECT AVENUE (NYC); BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (66%); TRENDS (66%); RETAILERS (66%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (63%); RELIGION (61%); CIVIL SERVICES (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%); 

PERSON: HATZIS, GEORGE; OSER, ALAN S GEORGE HATZIS (90%); CHARLES J DIVEN JR (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



208 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/Astor Row on West 130th;
In Harlem, Restoration of Rowhouses at Mid-Stage

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
THE New York Landmarks Conservancy's restoration of Astor Row, the little brick houses at 8 to 62 West 130th Street, is now at a middle stage, with some houses still almost derelict, some in mid-restoration and some completed.
But this half-done phase helps make it interesting, and a trip to one of the most memorable blocks in the city will repay anyone who makes the journey. 
 The Astor Estate, worth $80 million in the mid-1870's, began a particularly aggressive building program in 1878, eventually putting up structures like the old Waldorf-Astoria, the St. Regis and other big buildings. But it also built more modestly, and from 1880-1883 William Astor built 28 brick rowhouses for investment at 8 to 62 West 130th Street, designed by Charles Buek.
In 1883 The Real Estate Chronicle described them as "Philadelphia-style" and they are unique in Manhattan -- 14 pairs of houses set back 20 feet from the street, three stories high, with wooden porches and recessed light courts partly separating each pair. The intelligence and ingenuity of their planning rebukes the standard high-stoop brownstones built across the street.
In 1920 the row was still sound but buffeted by changing conditions. A real estate collapse in Harlem around 1905 had given blacks their first toehold in the neighborhood, previously almost exclusively white.
The 1920 census shows that Astor Row's tenants were all white. But in late 1920 the Astor Estate, headed by the young Vincent Astor, announced that it would open the houses to blacks, noting that the whites were on leases with 90-day cancellation clauses.
The exact reasoning behind the decision was not reported. One typical hypothesis is that whites fled areas next to those with blacks, but the 1920 census shows no empty houses. Another is that the quality of white tenants in such areas suffered, whereas the succeeding blacks were more respectable. But there were professionals in both white and black groups, and equal numbers operated their homes as rooming houses.
A final common explanation is that blacks paid more by crowding in. The black tenants may well have paid more, but they were not materially more crowded, with 316 tenants recorded in the 1925 state census, a modest increase over the 292 white tenants in 1920.
Whatever the explanation, the 1925 census offers a picture of black life. At 12 West 130th Street, the occupants were Joseph Bushnell, a 50-year-old minister;, his wife, Effie; their five children, and three lodgers: Thelma Hatcher, a teacher, Charles Hamlet, a bellman, and his wife, Iva. All were American-born.
In 46 West 130th Street, occupied by a machinist, Allen Abramson, and his wife, Mary, and several roomers, most of the occupants had come to this country from St. Kitts, St. Thomas or the Barbados since 1905. The youngest Astor Row inhabitant recorded in 1925 was Marion Walton at 32 West 130th Street, 106 days old, daughter of Wilbert Walton, a West Indian electrician who had been in America since 1919.
Astor Row was pretty much forgotten by 1978, when the second edition of the AIA Guide to New York City, by Norval White and Elliot Willensky, mourned the "restrained beauty which has been tarnished by years of economic distress," especially their fragile wooden porches, many of which were collapsing or had been removed.
IN 1981 the Landmarks Preservation Commission designated the houses landmarks, but they continued their slide until 1990, when the New York Landmarks Conservancy began of one of the city's most unusual restoration projects.
Although the 28 houses are now mostly privately owned, some by occupants, some by investors, the Conservancy has collected $2.16 million for facade and interior repairs to 17 buildings. Of this money $375,000 is for low-interest loans, but the rest is outright grant money, about $100,000 per house.
Some are being restored by owner-occupants, some are being rebuilt into co-ops, and there's one "where we're still not sure who the homeowner is," says Peg Breen, president of the Conservancy. Later financing will cover other buildings, but the exterior work on most of the houses will be finished by 1995.
The project began in 1992, and now scaffolds and carpenters and other tradespeople dot Astor Row. The porch woodwork, originally painted in three different color combinations, is being repainted in a single uniform scheme of olive, white and gray.
The renovation has not been without problems, however. The Conservancy is prudently waiting to move ahead on houses that are still unoccupied. And it had a dispute with two homeowners over delays and financing.
Not many years ago there was something almost romantic for students of architecture discovering this ignored, tumble-down row. But this same romance was killing Astor Row, and in this case the drama of the steady reclamation is just as exciting.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The house at 26 West 130th Street, part of Astor Row, in 1939. The houses, many almost derelict, are being restored today by the New York Landmarks Conservancy. The project encompasses the buildings from 8 to 62 on the block just west of Fifth Avenue. (Office for Metropolitan History; Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); BARBADOS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK LANDMARKS CONSERVANCY NEW YORK LANDMARKS CONSERVANCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK LANDMARKS CONSERVANCY

GEOGRAPHIC: ASTOR ROW (NYC); HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); BARBADOS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; BLACKS (IN US) REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); CENSUS (87%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); CHILDREN (66%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER WILLIAM ASTOR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



209 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 13; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Disaster Recovery;
A Business Whose Clients Hope Never to Use It

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
FIVE years ago, Exchange Resources opened a center in Minneapolis where financial traders could go if their workplaces were hit by a fire, flood or other disaster. The center had 440 seats, complete with desktop computers, Reuters and Quotron machines -- tools of the trader's trade.
"It was the field of dreams, except we built it and nobody came," recalled Kenneth Israel, the company's founder. 
 Then Mr. Israel got a little celestial help: Hurricane Andrew in Florida, an earthquake in San Francisco, a Con Edison failure in New York, all threw into sharp relief the specter of millions of sales dollars going down the drain with flood waters or ashes.
Today, client subscriptions to seats at the Minneapolis center and at a larger one Exchange Resources has opened at Telehouse in Staten Island are bringing in $35 million a year. In the last two months Mr. Israel has opened two more centers, one at 33 Whitehall Street and another on the top floor of Salomon Inc.'s data processing center in Rutherford, N.J.
"There is just a major appetite for this kind of backup these days," Mr. Israel said.
There sure is. Over the last decade the disaster-recovery industry has grown to about 30 companies operating 112 facilities with combined revenues of $471 million, according to Contingency Planning Research, a consulting firm in Jericho, L.I. The centers are lifesavers, not only to companies struck by disaster, but also to owners of high-tech buildings like Telehouse at which they rent their space.
For now, three leaders -- Sungard Recovery Services, Comdisco and International Business Machines -- account for about 75 percent of the disaster-recovery business, with I.B.M. alone having about 42 percent.
"Going into this business certainly wasn't a bad decision to make," said John E. Nevola, site manager for I.B.M.'s disaster-recovery center at Sterling Forest, N.Y.
Among the several reasons behind the boom are that publicized disasters like the World Trade Center bombing last year have highlighted the need for places that companies can turn to in emergencies and that companies increasingly rely on computers and telecommunications for everyday transactions.
"Disaster recovery used to focus simply on preserving data," said Tari Schreider, a partner in Contingency Planning. "Now it is on business continuity as a whole."
That change has vastly widened the disaster-recovery industry's customer base.
"It's not just traders or catalogue-sales companies," said Robert W. Richards, general manager of an AT&T division that runs a disaster-recovery center in Rochelle Park, N.J. "It's hospitals, it's leasing companies, even shipping companies. If a ship can't go to sea until you've checked it out, you can't have your computers and phones down."
Disaster-recovery centers fall into several categories. "Cold sites" are empty spaces that can accommodate shipped-in computers. "Hot sites" have large computers and generic workstations. And specialized hot sites duplicate the electronically intricate work stations that commodities traders use. Most centers are all-purpose hot sites that back up business systems, not individuals. They serve companies that, unlike traders, will not lose millions of dollars if they are off-line for a short time.
"MOST people need to be up and running in 24 hours, not in 20 minutes," said William J. Beaumont, senior vice president of marketing for Sungard, which opened the first commercial hot site in Philadelphia in 1978 and now has six huge disaster-recovery centers and 10 smaller regional ones.
The disaster-recovery business is not cheap to enter. The centers must provide many expensive computers, elaborate security and fortress-like buildings. Their electricity and maintenance costs are huge. And competition is forcing most of them to deeply discount their rates, making it ever harder to recoup their costs.
And locating a center can be a logistical nightmare. Its building must have ample space and wiring for computers, backup generators and fiberoptics cables. It should be within commuting distance of its clients' workforces, yet distant enough to keep clear of whatever has felled the clients' offices.
Such sites are getting easier to find. The recession has left a lot of high-tech space available. So has technological progress: Electronic equipment that used to take up huge floors now fits in half the space.
That's one reason Salomon rented space to Exchange Resources.
"We originally figured we'd need the entire Rutherford building for ourselves," said Robert J. Cassiliano, a senior operating officer at Salomon. "But the power of the computer shifted to the desktop, and this building became an underutilized asset."
Technology vendors are turning to disaster recovery to leverage their own underutilized real estate. The AT&T center in Rochelle Park is in space left vacant when switching equipment got smaller. I.B.M. derives about $200 million in annual revenues from its 16 disaster-recovery centers, all in spaces that became available as the company's staff and equipment shrank.
All of the disaster-recovery centers command hefty subscription prices. Clients can pay anywhere from a few hundred dollars a month for simple computer file backup to hundreds of thousands of dollars a year for a setup in which not only their data, but their entire operation -- their trading floor, say, or catalog selling house -- is duplicated and ready to run at a moment's notice. And that just covers the right to use the backup. Clients pay a hefty per diem fee if they do use the center, although most centers will let them run free tests of their systems.
Most centers will sell the same computer access or seat to several clients, on the principle that they are unlikely to have an emergency at the same time. A client who insists on exclusive access to its backup can pay hundreds of thousands of dollars.
NOT surprisingly, some companies balk at what amounts to an expensive insurance policy. Most, citing fear of sabotage, will not discuss their contingency plans on the record.
But several say they have arranged with their own suppliers and customers -- or even, in a few cases, with competitors -- to back each other up.
Others have set up reciprocal arrangements internally. For example, Salomon's Rutherford building and its Manhattan offices serve as backup for each other. Still others have asked their real estate departments to keep up-to-the-minute accounts of empty internal space.
"Between our power plants, warehouses and offices, we have dozens of places that can be hooked up with phones in an emergency," said Domenick Lorenzon, senior real estate representative for Consolidated Edison. "We do more to back up our data systems, but this setup works to relocate an accounting department."
But few companies find it cost-effective to handle rent and maintenance for huge, high-tech spaces that, in best-case scenario, will never be used. There are exceptions. The investment banking firm Allen & Company, for example, is building its own disaster-recovery center at the International Design Center building in Long Island City, Queens.
Far more typical is U.S. Trust. The big bank has an intricate contingency plan for sending people in critical functions in a disaster-hit building to space occupied by employees doing less critical tasks in another building nearby.
But it still pays a commercial recovery center over $250,000 a year to back up its computer systems.
"It's just too tremendous an expense to set up a separate data center that you don't need on a daily basis," said Vincent J. Leuzzi, U.S. Trust's vice president of data security and contingency planning.
Another problem when companies maintain their own centers, the commercial purveyors are quick to note, is that corporate America, like nature, abhors a vaccuum.
"Growing firms tend to gobble up space that was supposed to be reserved for disaster recovery," noted Robert D. Felch, president of Chubb Services Corporation, which runs a disaster-recovery center for Wall Street traders at Metrotech in Brooklyn.
Actually, Chubb and several other recovery centers get double use from the space, too. Some rent it out for seminars, training and special projects.
Why is that less risky? "We won't let anyone modify the space," Mr. Felch said. "And the contract says they must vacate in case of emergency."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John E. Nevola, site manager at the I.B.M. disaster-recovery center in Sterling Forest, N.Y. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (57%); IBMC (BRU) (53%); IBM (NYSE) (53%); IBM (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS532420 OFFICE MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (54%); SIC7377 COMPUTER RENTAL & LEASING (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); EXCHANGE RESOURCES INC CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (69%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%); COMDISCO HOLDING CO INC (54%); SUNGARD RECOVERY SERVICES INC (54%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (53%); I B M (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); EXCHANGE RESOURCES INC I B M (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MINNESOTA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; DISASTERS REAL ESTATE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); BUSINESS CONTINUITY (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (79%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (77%); LEASING INDUSTRY (73%); HURRICANES (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); EARTHQUAKES (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (70%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (64%); 

PERSON: ISRAEL, KENNETH; DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H KENNETH ISRAEL (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



210 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Builders Seek to Turn Economies Into Extra Space

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
BUILDERS in Connecticut are responding to home buyers whose mantra for the 90's is value. Gas fireplaces and radiant-heat ceiling panels are selling briskly. Vinyl siding has shed its bourgeois image and steel framing is emerging as an alternative to lumber's unstable prices and scarcity.
Builders say that most buyers, sometimes surprised to learn that what looks like wood siding is vinyl and what appears to be a real fireplace is a gas-burning fake, accept them readily as a trade-off for more square footage and better-equipped kitchens and bathrooms. 
 In addition, developers who once offered a choice of three models -- take 'em or leave 'em -- will customize generously and in some cases custom build. In terms of style, split-levels and ranches are noticeably absent. "People want two-story houses," said Ralph Lee Smith, publications editor for the National Association of Home Builders in Upper Marlboro, Md.
Demographically, empty-nesters and young families in the $100,000-to-$300,000 market are most interested in houses requiring minimum maintenance, while purists and those who can afford it continue to insist on natural materials.
"I advise against synthetics," said John P. Franzen, a Southport architect. "A house with a masonry chimney and wood or brick siding will hold its value. But a $375,000 house can cost almost $100,000 less built of synthetics."
Over the last two decades, when mercury and lead were removed from paint for environmental reasons, mildewing and a weakened ability of paint to adhere to wood siding resulted. Homeowners resorted to covering the wood with vinyl, and builders of new houses found vinyl easy and cheap to install in 100-square-foot sheets that require no painting.
But it is not trouble-free. In a fire it gives off toxic fumes, and after a decade or two it can become porous and lose color. "We are test-marketing something called Siding Paint," said Carl Minchew, chief chemist at the Benjamin Moore paint company in New Jersey, "that is designed for use on weathered vinyl, and we have developed paints containing agents that retard mildew."
Carl Kuehner, a third-generation New Canaan builder, has constructed vinyl-sided houses in Darien and New Canaan for as much as $700,000. "It insures a maintenance-free life style," he said, "for people who would rather be on the golf course." And he has installed gas fireplaces not only in homes but also in office buildings, "to give that corner office a certain cachet," he said. "You just click it on with a remote control," Mr. Kuehner added.
CHRIS NELSON, whose Nelson Construction Company in Farmington is building 68 vinyl-sided homes on a 29-acre site, will sell them for $110,000 to $210,000 in sizes of 1,300 to 2,020 square feet. He uses detailed wood trim, gas fireplaces and will customize.
"We have five models and two to three elevations for each, so there are 15 house styles," he said. "Computers give us the flexibility to move interior walls, shift configurations, then run the plan through the computer and have the printouts, specific to the buyer, out in the field within hours." Customizing with hand-drawn blueprints sometimes took weeks.
In Madison, Robert Dowler and his son Chris are building 40 vinyl-sided houses with gas fireplaces on a 30-acre site, with each house custom-designed for the topography and the buyer's requirements. Don Miner, the resident designer, tailors the house to the buyer's specifications and life style. Homes of 1,600 to 3,000 square feet start at around $260,000 and go up to whatever the customer's tastes and pocketbook dictate.
In high-priced Stamford, the Vaneck Brothers, longtime local builders, are offering four vinyl-sided models of 1,800 to 2,200 square feet with two to four bedrooms for $260,000 to around $290,000. But there is no customizing, there are no basements and the condominiumized lots are very small.
"The gas fireplaces," said Nicholas Vaneck, "do not require chimneys. They are sealed behind a glass front and vented through the wall with a metal cap on the outside of the house. Fifty percent of our buyers are empty-nesters, not interested in hauling firewood."
Masonry chimneys add from $2,000 to $6,000 to the cost of a house, so it is not surprising that nationwide sales of gas fireplaces increased by 30 percent in 1993 over 1992, to more than 600,000 units, and a higher figure is anticipated for 1994 by the Hearth Products Association of Arlington, Va.
Vent-free gas fireplaces, in which the flame is open to the room, are prohibited in some states, including New York, and some municipal building inspectors in Connecticut will not approve them.
Sales of both vent-free and vented gas fireplaces at Novicky's Fireside in Brookfield account for 60 percent of total sales of gas and wood-burning fireplaces, said Bobbi Novicky, the owner.
"Fears of the vent-free type are unfounded," she said. "They work like a gas burner on a countertop range, producing no carbon monoxide. We recommend that a window be open slightly because they use room air, but if the oxygen level goes down to 17 parts per million the fireplace shuts off automatically."
Vented fireplaces automatically shut down when too high a temperature is reached or the sealed glass front, which creates a combustion chamber, is removed.
Town Glen, a vinyl-sided apartment complex in Stamford, vents its gas fireplaces up a stacked flue through the roof.
"WE prefer gas because wood logs attract insects," said Chuck Berman, head of Avalon Properties of New Canaan, the developer, "and in an urban setting it's difficult to find space to store them." The one- and two-bedroom units rent from $1,000 to $1,700.
Steel framing is a learning experience for carpenters, but "it will be installed in 35,000 houses by the end of this year," said James Prindle, project manager of the American Iron and Steel Institute in Washington, "double last year's figure."
"By 1997 we expect to have 25 percent of the market," he said.
Half of the output is in prefabricated housing as studs -- the vertical wall supports -- structural walls, floor joists and roof truss packages. Steel siding and steel roofing sheets can be textured to look like stucco, shingles and various other traditional materials. "Every stud is a dollar cheaper than its wood counterpart," said Mr. Prindle, "and they are all straight and usable. About 20 percent of wood studs are returned for defects."
Warming up from the ceiling down is the business of the Solid State Heating Company in Old Saybrook, where radiant-heat ceiling panels are made. They require no furnace, ducts or flues or maintenance and are silent and nonallergenic. Operated from thermostats at every light switch "they warm all objects in their path, including the floor," said Richard Watson, president of the company, "rather than warming air and blowing it through the house."
They have been used successfully at Heritage Village in Southbury by the builder K. Hovnanian Enterprises of Red Bank, N.J., and by local contractors. Studies by the National Association of Home Builders show that they save 33 to 52 percent over heat pumps and baseboard units, and they are competitive with natural gas.
"We call them Enerjoy People Heaters," said Mr. Watson.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Stamford, Vaneck Brothers has vinyl-sided houses, top, and gas fireplaces that do not need chimneys. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%); MARYLAND, USA (55%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%); MARYLAND, USA (55%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); CONSTRUCTION (79%); TEST MARKETING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); EMPTY NESTERS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); GOLF (71%); PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



211 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 12; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Suffolk Water Eyes Private Suppliers

BYLINE: By CAROLE PAQUETTE 

 BODY:
COMMUNITIES trying to make a strong stand for home rule are having trouble keeping their private water utilities alive.
New Federal standards have opened the way for acquisitions by the Suffolk County Water Authority, which supplies 80 percent of the water in the county. 
"Outside areas that we don't control will be experiencing great difficulties with the new guidelines," the chairman of the authority, Michael A. LoGrande, said.
Increases stemming from the new standards imposed by the Environmental Protection Agency are costing the authority $4 million this year. Twenty-five wells were tested under the Safe Drinking Water Act, and 25 will be added every other year at a cost of $4 million each time, according to Mr. LoGrande, who added:
"We know the tests will be O.K., but still we have to do them. Most of the tests don't even affect us. They are for mining substances found in Southern states such as the Carolinas. But they are Federal mandates and have to be complied with across the board."
Under New York State guidelines the authority also tests its 415 wells for 120 additional substances.
The authority says benefits from takeovers include lower rates than private companies because the authority is exempt from property and income taxes, issues tax-exempt bonds, does not have to show a profit and spreads costs over its base of 320,000 customers.
At a new $5 million laboratory in Hauppauge, 18 chemists have been added to the nine-member staff. "We now test over 40,000 samples per year," an operations supervisor, Herman Miller, said. "We monitor wells, some daily, if there is a potential problem. In private labs it can take up to a week for results. We have them the next day. We have people on duty 24 hours a day for emergencies, and we do our own maintenance."
The average customer pays $1.25 per 1,000 gallons of water. Forty percent of the revenues go to construction costs like laying mains. The remaining 60 percent is for operations and management.
"We only operate in eight of Suffolk's 10 towns," Mr. LoGrande said. Riverhead and Shelter Island run their own water utilities. "Fifteen or 20 years down the road we may integrate Riverhead," he said. "But right now they are doing a good job. Shelter Island just didn't work out."
The eight towns in the authority each also have two or three independent districts. The authority manages the districts, which are charged for water and taxed for capital expenses. Most districts are self-contained and pump their own water.
In the Town of Huntington the districts include Dix Hills, Greenlawn and South Huntington. Babylon has East Farmingdale, Islip has Brentwood, and Brookhaven has Stony Brook and some communities on Fire Island.
On the East End, Hampton Bays and Greenport are the only two independent districts.
"Most of those districts, like Greenlawn, are doing a fine job," Mr. LoGrande said. "Their water quality is fine. So we have never offered to buy them."
Offers have been made to purchase some districts, but in some instances like East Farmingdale, which has low rates, the communities did not want to give up their autonomy, Mr. LoGrande said.
Smithtown and St. James own their water utilities, but buy water from the authority. Both districts voted down acquisition by the authority last year. A takeover would have raised their annual rates, from $1.20 to $1.21 per 1,000 gallons, or $4 a year per homeowner.
Opponents of the takeover in Smithtown contend that the Town Board had not obtained an independent evaluation of the district to negotiate a counteroffer to the authority's proposal for $4.45 million.
The rejection occurred near an election, but Supervisor Patrick Vecchio said he did not know why the proposal failed. "I was in favor," Mr. Vecchio said. "I think one entity is better. Most people polled want less government, not more. Here was an incident where they could get less. But they turned it down."
In St. James, which Mr. Vecchio called a homey community, voters "just did not want to give it up," he added.
St. James is among the districts feeling the effects of rising costs imposed by the county authority. The 9,000 residents face an estimated 24 percent increase in rates next year. Smithtown, which has a water surplus, is not being affected.
The Town of Shelter Island also opted for home rule, when the West Neck Water Company, which has 52 customers, was put up for sale in the summer. The town, rather than let the county authority acquire the utility, is hoping to buy it. It is placing a proposition on the ballot in November to establish a town water district for those 52 houses, said Supervisor Hoot Sherman. The other 90 percent of the residents have wells.
The 52 homeowners hooked up to the 40-year-old West Neck utility would be the only people bearing the $25,000 cost of its wells. They now pay $125 a year, and the cost would rise, to $350.
It would have been cheaper to join with the county authority because of the new testing and regulations, Mr. Sherman said. "But we don't want the S.C.W.A. and all the things that go with it, the pressure to down zone and the pressure for development," he said.
In many attempts to purchase utilities, Mr. LoGrande said, his authority is "buying headaches." He cited the 495-customer Swan Lake Water Company in Patchogue and the 1,000-customer Sun Hill in Centereach and Selden.
Two years ago, after years of unsuccessful talks, the authority started condemnations against the utilities, saying that they did not meet quality standards. "In many of these cases," Mr. LoGrande said, "you have poor families with high rates and poor water."
In 1992, after a public outcry over rate increases, the authority made its largest purchase, spending $17.5 million for the Shorewood Water Corporation in Shoreham-Wading River. The rates for the 5,300 customers were lowered 40 percent, from $4.44 per 1,000 gallons to $2.50.
On Fire Island the rate would be higher than the average $1.25, to cover the logistics of servicing a barrier island, Mr. Miller said. Seeking alternatives to higher rates, four of the 17 communities on the island -- the Pines, Cherry Grove, Kismet and Ocean Bay Park -- have approached the county authority.
Ocean Bay Park residents, who pay $7 per 1,000 gallons of water and an annual service charge of $225, turned down the proposal. The president of the board of the Ocean Bay Park Water Corporation, Bruce Martin, said the authority did not propose sufficient savings to induce the residents to give up control. "People on Fire Island do like to keep home rule when they can," he added.
But Elizabeth Mahoney, a member of the Held family that has owned the 45-year-old Kismet Water Company that serves 180 houses, said a purchase by the authority had been negotiated.
"It's hard to run a mom-and-pop operation without the knowledge and education now required," Ms. Mahoney said. "And it's hard economically. Last year our well-casing started to be compromised. There's no financing for a small water company, and the family just doesn't have the money to put up any more."
The Pines and Cherry Grove districts, which are managed by Brookhaven, have not made a decision. But the financial burdens are growing, according to Clern LaFountaine, Commissioner of the Fire Island Pines Water District.
Bids recently opened for a $4 million to $6 million project to deal with asbestos in the water mains in the Pines. New backflow valves are being installed, and along with seven other Fire Island communities the Pines has to treat its pipes for lead corrosion control, at an estimated cost of $15,000.
"Between the Federal, state and county health regulations, the small purveyor of water is the targeted species," Mr. LaFountaine said. "They can't keep it up."
Mr. LoGrande said although his authority was buying companies, hewas most concerned about the 50,000 homeowners with private wells, like those in Head of the Harbor and Nissequogue in Smithtown. The laws are written just for public suppliers, he said, adding:
"We've already hooked up 250 people who have shallow wells. We ask that people test their water at least twice a year. Our goal is to make sure all people have pure drinking water."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian Reddy and Annie McKnight in Oakdale laboratory testing for volatile compounds. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLHR (NASDAQ) (54%); MHR (FRA) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (54%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (54%); SIC2521 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE (54%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA); SUFFOLK COUNTY WATER AUTHORITY HERMAN MILLER INC (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA); SUFFOLK COUNTY WATER AUTHORITY US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); TEST LABORATORIES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); TAX LAW (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: PAQUETTE, CAROLE MICHAEL A LOGRANDE (86%); PATRICK VECCHIO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



212 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 63; Column 5; Society Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Martha Raimon, Craig Wolff

 BODY:
Martha Lee Raimon, the director of the family law unit of South Brooklyn Legal Services, is to be married today to Craig Wolff, an assistant professor of journalism at Columbia University. Rabbi Lawrence Edwards is to officiate at the Fountainebleau Inn in Alpine, N.Y.
Ms. Raimon is keeping her name. She received undergraduate and law degrees from Cornell University. She is a daughter of Robert L. Raimon of Ithaca, N.Y., and the late Eunice D. Raimon. The bride's father is a professor emeritus of labor economics at Cornell, in Ithaca. 
 Mr. Wolff is also a freelance writer and was until recently a reporter at The New York Times. He graduated from the University of Rochester. He is a son of Marvin and Frances Wolff of Bayside, Queens. The bridegroom's mother is a former special-education teacher in the New York City public schools in Queens. His father is an interior designer in Jamaica Estates, Queens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (88%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); FAMILY LAW (88%); WRITERS (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); 

PERSON: RAIMON, MARTHA LEE (MARTHA LEE WOLFF); WOLFF, CRAIG MARTHA LEE RAIMON (92%); FRANCES WOLFF (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



213 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 60; Column 5; Society Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Elaine Cheng, Allen B. J. Paik

 BODY:
Elaine Cheng, a daughter of Nina Cheng of Taipei, Taiwan, and the late Thomas Cheng, was married yesterday to Allen B. J. Paik, the son of Inja and Chei-Min Paik of Chevy Chase, Md. The Rev. Dr. Melvin Hawthorne officiated at the ecumenical ceremony at the Estherwood mansion in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
The bride, 29, is a finance manager at the Colgate-Palmolive Company in New York. She graduated from the University of California at Berkeley. She and the bridegroom received M.B.A.'s from Columbia University. Her mother is the chairman of the Taipei operations of TCBY Enterprises Inc., the yogurt chain, and Mothercare UK, a retailer of infants' clothing and accessories. 
 The bridegroom, 32, is a vice president at Highland Capital Associates, a mergers and acquisitions firm in New York. He graduated from Middlebury College. His mother is a senior economist at the United States Department of Energy in Washington. His father is a professor and the chairman of the accounting department at George Washington University there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (72%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (72%); TCBY ENTERPRISES INC (71%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (56%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (56%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); RETAILERS (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (58%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (53%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (52%); 

PERSON: CHENG, ELAINE (ELAINE PAIK); PAIK, ALLEN B. J. THOMAS CHENG (59%); ELAINE CHENG (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



214 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIARY

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
A Strong Jobs Reports, but Inflation Alarms Stay Silent
 The financial markets were jittery all week about -- what else? -- inflation. One day the Dow dropped 45 points for no other discernible reason, and the 30-year Treasury bond yield flirted with an unheard-of 8 percent, as most eyes were focused on the unemployment report looming on Friday. When it appeared, it was -- in Labor Secretary Robert Reich's words -- "steady as you go." Unemployment did fall to 5.9 percent, the lowest level in four years, but the 239,000 added payroll jobs were lower than expected. So the markets decided, yet again, that inflation wasn't pounding on the door, Treasury yields eased a bit, and the Dow rose 21 points. Of course, the latest tension in Iraq had a clear effect, lifting oil stocks (on speculation of a supply disruption) and the dollar (a traditional haven when nations draw their swords).
 
Whose Economy Is It, Anyway?
Wait a second. What, exactly, does a strong economy look like? As in a house of mirrors, it depends on where you stand. The jobs data give a far-off, brute-force sort of picture, but last week the Census Bureau gave another snapshot, showing a few more warts. This economy's dirty secret, Census figures show, is that it's "in danger of splitting into a two-tiered society," in Labor Secretary Reich's words. Because while the rich got car phones, the family in the middle lost $300 (in real dollars) last year. On top of that, more than a million Americans slid into statistical poverty. "This," Mr. Reich said, "is not anyone's idea of progress."
 
Interactive? No, Thanks
So there's all this money pouring into enabling a technology-besotted public to shop at home, say, or order movies -- "interactive" services, they're called. But did anyone ask that public if it was interested? Actually, yes -- and the companies pouring that money may not like the answers. In a poll out last week, people showed scant interest in interactive services -- far less than in plucking out information. One big reason seems to be that people have a nagging fear that with all that computing power loose in the land, marketers will latch onto any information they can and bombard armchair shoppers with sales pitches. When privacy safeguards were mentioned, the interest doubled. But will shoppers' privacy ever be intact again?
 
See the Movie, Buy the Shrimp
It's a familiar scene: a 7-year-old, after seeing "The Lion King" 42 times, spirals into tears because the Nala doll -- Simba's pal -- is sold out everywhere. On such grief is a multi-zillion-dollar industry built: if you've seen the movie, kids, badger Mom or Dad to buy every movie tie-in doodad in sight. Adult movies, of course, are above such merchandising silliness -- at least they used to be. "Forrest Gump" has already defied gravity by hitting No. 5 on history's blockbuster list -- without a space alien or animated critter in sight. And now -- are you ready for this? -- there's everything from Gump T-shirts to table-tennis sets to Bubba Gump Shrimp. Hundreds of millions of dollars' worth. So brace yourself: next summer there'll be a dozen movies starring floating feathers.
 
Did That Quiz Turn a Profit?
City schools are a huge problem in this country, and -- in sheer dollars -- they're also a huge business. They're not run like businesses, though -- with trained business people calling the shots -- and some people say that's where the problem lies. Like the people in Hartford, which has Connecticut's largest school system, and one of its most troubled. So last week Hartford acted on that theory, taking the radical step of hiring a private company called Education Alternatives to run its schools -- the first whole system turned over to private hands. There's something unsettling about the idea, of course -- the whole notion of treating those young minds as so many widgets -- but Hartford clearly decided that the schools' current sad state was even more unsettling.
 
Flash! Something Worked!
Occasionally, just occasionally, some grand Government plan actually works. So as titillating as it is to recount horror stories, let's pause for a moment over one that appears to be a success. Seven years ago, with the semiconductor industry battered by Japan, the Government -- urged on by chip makers -- set up a federally financed consortium called Sematech to give the industry a lift. Over the years, Washington has invested $690 million, with Sematech members -- like I.B.M., Motorola and National Semiconductor -- matching that. And lo and behold, America leads the world again -- so last week Sematech told Washington that chip makers would soon go solo, weaning themselves from Federal financing by 1997.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Seal of Approval for South Africa
Ending apartheid was only a start. South Africa badly needs rebuilding after years as a global outcast, but it could borrow cash to do so only at loan-shark rates. For even with all the investment capital sloshing around the globe, South Africa lacked one vital ticket to the party: the blessing of a top credit-rating agency. But last week -- as Nelson Mandela visited the United States in search of investment -- it finally got it, as Moody's declared South Africa an investment-grade sort of place. Standard & Poor's still held back, saying it wanted more time, but it indicated that it could come around soon. Moody's rating, though, might get the money moving.
 
Giving Russia Some Time
One of the world's biggest, most important question marks is whether Russia can make the giant leap to a market economy. To do so, it argues, it must have some breathing room before having to pay back its huge debts. World governments have already postponed interest payments repeatedly, and last week it got another much-needed break: foreign banks made a deal to give Russia a five-year grace period during which it need not pay interest or principal on $26 billion in loans. The breakthrough came when Russia was granted "sovereign immunity" from having funds seized abroad if it defaults. But it still has to pay all the money back.
 
COMPANIES
 
McHospital
Who needs a national health care system when we've got Columbia/HCA Healthcare? At this rate, there'll be as many Columbia/ HCA hospitals across the landscape as there are McDonald's. The company's already the nation's biggest for-profit hospital chain, but why stop there? Why indeed. Last week, Columbia heard that Healthtrust, No. 2 in the industry, was thinking of merging with a rival, and Columbia jumped in and merged with Healthtrust itself -- to create a giant with 311 hospitals in 31 states. The idea is that with shorter patient stays and more home care, a hospital chain must hammer away at efficiency. The merged company will still account for just 4 percent of the $350 billion spent in the nation's hospitals annually. But the day is young.
 
Have a Coors -- After Work
Loyal employees should certainly be encouraged to use their employers' products. Editors should read their own newspapers, toothpaste packers should be politically correct at the sink. But enough, sometimes, is enough -- which is what Coors decided. It used to let workers at its Colorado headquarters drink Coors at lunch and during breaks -- the last big brewer to allow on-the-job drinking. But tomorrow that policy ends. In March, it seems, a Coors worker died in a car accident after he left work, reportedly with too much alcohol in his blood, but Coors said the drinking policy had been under review since "well before the accident."
 
Remember Us? We Pay the Bills
Many people have unkind things to say about Philip Morris, but arts organizations aren't among them. For years, the company has been one of nation's biggest backers of the arts -- giving millions a year to museums, dance groups, you name it -- and asked nothing in return. But Philip Morris has a little problem -- New York City's proposed anti-smoking bill -- so it was time to ask a few favors. Its executives have been calling arts groups asking them to put in a good word with the City Council. Not to lobby, mind you -- just to gently remind officials of Philip Morris's good works. And though arts-group officials may have been tempted to hang up in an air-purifying huff, little voices said, "Remember the money." As one official put it, "It's a very tricky situation." The City Council got a lot of calls.
 
Watch Kidder Shrink
General Electric doesn't like surprises, and it does like investments to pay off. Kidder, Peabody has failed on both counts. It took a beating in the bond market, and the Joseph Jett scandal was probably the last straw. So last week the G.E. executives who waded in to straighten things up cut Kidder down to size -- the size G.E. wants, that is. That means a 10 percent cut in staff -- 550 jobs -- plus $100 million in cost cuts and the sale of $30 billion in assets. In other words, a far smaller firm. Most notable, perhaps, is the scrapping of plans to move Kidder uptown to G.E. headquarters. G.E. may be about to banish the errant firm from its tidy corporate family. Nobody's denying it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Hartford classroom. (M. Almeida for The New York Times); Tom Hanks as you-know-who. (Phil Caruso); At the Metropolitan Museum. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); CENSUS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); 

PERSON: TOM HANKS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



215 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Savers Suffer At Most Banks

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
ONCE again, the American economy is showing surprising strength, with the unemployment rate down to 5.9 percent. Wall Street thinks it is all but inevitable that the Federal Reserve will be pushing short-term interest rates up again.
Again? If your money is in bank money market accounts -- you remember, the accounts that were introduced a decade ago as the alternative to money market funds -- you may not have noticed anything happening on the interest rate front. 
 When the Federal Reserve tightens, it pushes up the rate that banks pay on loans from other banks. This year, it has tightened five times, raising that rate by 1.75 percentage points. But the banks have seen no reason to pay depositors anything like that increase. Bank Rate Monitor reports the average bank was paying 2.3 percent on money market accounts just before the first tightening, and now is paying 2.5 percent.
Unsurprisingly, banks have been less hesitant to raise the rates they charge on loans. Meanwhile, the average yield on money market funds, which compete directly with the banks, has gone from 2.7 percent to 4.3 percent.
What's going on here? In past cycles, notes Bob Heady of Bank Rate Monitor, banks have pushed up rates more slowly than the market, but never this slowly. At IBC/Donoghue, which tracks money market funds, Ralph Norton, an analyst, says it is "a mystery to me" why banks have decided to not compete with money market funds for available savings.
The issue is not one that bankers are itching to discuss. Calls to several big banks Friday produced a series of responses that the only official who could discuss such things was unavailable.
Federal Reserve data show that bank savings account balances -- including the money market accounts -- have declined very slowly even while their rates lagged the competition. Many savers don't bother to check rates, and others have tied up money to meet minimum deposit requirements to get "free" checking. The banks, having found that they don't need to pay up for this type of deposit, are only too happy not to do so. When certificates of deposit are up for renewal, customers are more likely to call around, and thus there is more competition in those rates. The low rate for one-year C.D.'s was 3.1 percent. Now it is up to 4.6 percent.
But there is something else to be seen from these numbers. As Merrill Lynch strategist Chuck Clough notes, banks are not exactly falling all over themselves to find money to make more loans. Loan demand is up, but it is far from overwhelming.
For savers, the answer is obvious. If you want to stay in a bank, consider certificates of deposit, which often count against minimum balance requirements. Or move to a money market fund.
That behavior may have already begun. While the total balance of bank and savings institutions savings accounts has dropped only 3 percent since February, the pace has started to pick up in the last few weeks. As Abe Lincoln said, you can't fool all of the people all of the time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS; MONEY MARKET FUNDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



216 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: Pushing for the Free Trade Pact From 1,500 Feet Down

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: GREEN RIVER, Wyo.

 BODY:
FIFTEEN hundred feet under the sagebrush of the southwestern Wyoming desert here lie the world's biggest soda ash mines. One mine alone has 2,400 miles of tunnels, nearly five times the combined length of the streets of Manhattan.
So plentiful are the deposits that geologists estimate they could supply the entire world for 2,300 years at current rates of consumption. Soda ash is similar to baking soda and serves as the raw material for glass, toothpaste, powdered soaps and laundry detergents. 
 This mother lode has turned the United States into the world's lowest-cost producer, allowing it to claim nearly one third of the world market. And if the House and Senate approve a new global free trade agreement at the end of November, it will mean even more jobs in the soda ash industry, which had sales of $734 million last year. That makes the industry an unusually clear winner from a highly complicated pact.
The losers will be the foreign producers of soda ash. The low production costs here have prompted other countries to raise steep tariffs to protect their less efficient chemical factories that make synthetic soda ash. Desperate European multinationals have even sued American producers, including one of their own mines here, accusing them of dumping soda ash at unfairly low prices in the European market.
"It's like calling in an air strike on your own position," said Dennis Kostick, a soda ash geologist at the United States Bureau of Mines.
The soda ash industry offers a mirror image of the dilemma that usually confronts Americans when they think about trade as a choice between job losses and lower prices for consumers.
The traditional dilemma is best seen in the American clothing industry, which has much higher labor costs for sewing than its foreign competitors. Lowering trade barriers in the apparel industry at home and abroad means cheaper clothing for American consumers. But it also means throwing thousands of Americans out of work.
Soda ash is a different case. Since foreign soda ash is much more expensive, the United States imports virtually none and is unlikely to do so regardless of trade agreements. For this industry, then, a global free trade agreement will only mean more overseas sales, more jobs here and more economic activity that the Government can tax.
Other American industries hoping for big gains in exports from lower tariffs include producers of paper, pharmaceuticals, beer, processed foods, construction equipment and farm equipment.
If the pact is approved and other countries lower their barriers, miners here are ready to step up production, said John V. Corra, the manager of the FMC Corporation's mine here, as he drove with a visitor through miles of 9-foot-high, 16-foot-wide corridors, all the while keeping an eye on the rough ceiling from which foot-long stalactites hung like Vermont icicles.
The curving walls of the corridor still bear the inch-wide grooves where giant boring machines sliced through the rocks. These machines have two sets of 8-foot-wide rotating blades, so that they resemble a pair of huge electric shavers clamped together. Smaller blades also tear at the ceiling and floor to produce a smooth, oval-shaped corridor.
As the blades chew through the ore, the crumbled rock falls on the front of a conveyor belt that carries the ore back through the middle of the 110-ton machine and dumps it out the back on a shuttle car. The shuttle car then carries the ore down a few passages to one of the mine's big conveyor belts, which extend for 20 miles and carry the ore to an immense freight elevator that hauls up 22 tons of ore in each car.
Tariffs for soda ash would be among 198,000 tariffs around the world that the 123-nation trade pact would reduce. The pact would also extend the free-trade rules of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to farming and a few service industries, like accounting.
With the failure of President Clinton's health care overhaul, the trade pact has emerged as the Administration's top legislative priority for the rest of this year. But the bill putting the pact's provisions into American law faces an uncertain future because of election-year politics and because Senator Ernest C. Hollings, the South Carolina Democrat who is chairman of the Commerce Committee, has forced an eight-week delay in the Senate vote. Mr. Hollings's home state is a big producer of textiles and clothing, but he attributes his opposition to a general skepticism of free trade.
The dollars involved in the soda ash industry here are not large by trade standards: by one Government estimate, the trade pact's lower tariffs would mean an extra $80 million a year in American soda ash exports, representing an increase of about one third, and 300 to 400 more mining jobs here.
But such gains add up quickly. Administration economists predict that annual American economic output could be $100 billion larger within a decade if the trade bill passes. But opponents contend that the gains would be no more than $2 billion a year.
So economically important and politically powerful is the soda ash industry here that one of the state's two Republican senators, Malcolm Wallop, flew from his ranch in Wyoming to Geneva and back last December just to spend a day lobbying for lower European tariffs on the substance.
BECAUSE of a fluke of geology, the United States is the only country with huge reserves of soda ash that can be readily mined.
Soda ash ore, known as trona, is formed when sodium is combined with carbon dioxide and water in fairly precise ratios. Geologists believe that the deposits here formed 50 million years ago as continental drift pushed up mountain ranges around a large lake. The lake gradually dried out and the plant matter in it died and decayed, producing large quantities of carbon dioxide. At roughly the same time, numerous volcanic eruptions in northwestern Wyoming blanketed the region in sodium-rich ash, while the lake bed itself held some sodium-rich rocks.
The only other big veins of soda ash ore lie in a remote area of Turkey and in China near the Mongolian border. Neither is being mined because there are no nearby railroads or highways to ship the ash.
Industry executives once hoped that the trade pact's benefits for American soda ash would be even more substantial than they turned out to be. But the final pact is the sum of many compromises over seven years of negotiations.
The pact calls for all countries to limit their soda ash tariffs to 5.5 percent, but does not eliminate them entirely, as the United States had sought. This will force the European Union to cut its 10 percent tariff nearly in half.
"The reduction in tariffs," said William L. Breunig, the soda ash marketing director at FMC, "will make the market open to us and increase exports."
 
Industry at Odds With Itself
WASHINGTON -- THE soda ash industry holds a certain distinction in international trade circles: its corporations abroad have tangled with their subsidiaries here, even accusing one in a lawsuit of dumping goods at unfairly low prices in the parent's home market.
While rare, if unheard of, in other industries, similar suits could become increasingly common in the next few years as ever more companies set up operations around the globe and more countries enact anti-dumping laws. The reason: such laws effectively require a domestic producer suffering from low-priced foreign competition to sue all producers in another country or none.
Sometimes that may mean a company must sue its own subsidiary. Solvay S. A. of Belgium blames low-priced shipments from the United States for ruining the profitability of its synthetic soda ash factories in Europe. So it formed a coalition of European companies that filed anti-dumping complaints with the European Union in Brussels. The action seeks steep tariffs on all soda ash from the United States -- even though the Europeans own mines in southwestern Wyoming that account for a third of American production.
Solvay says its huge American mining operations have stopped shipping to Europe but it must sue them because of legal technicalities.
The European companies filed their case in late 1992, and a decision is due later this year or early next year. If the European Union decides to impose tariffs, the global free trade pact now before Congress is unlikely to prove any help to American producers.
The Clinton Administration insisted during the final days of negotiations last December in Geneva that the pact not put many restrictions on anti-dumping claims, which the American steel industry has used often against foreign rivals.
The final pact does call for several highly technical changes in the rules for anti-dumping cases.
A few soda ash executives, including William L. Breunig of the FMC Corporation, contend that the new rules will help Americans defend themselves by making the European anti-dumping process less secretive. But many others are less optimistic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A freight car laden with ash outside a soda processing plant in Green River, Wyo. (Jeffrey Aaronson for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Nature's Antacid" shows which countries mined and synthetic soda ash comes from and its domestic consumption and exports from '85 to '94 (Source: Interior Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FMC (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FMC CORP (61%); UNITED STATES BUREAU OF MINES (54%); UNITED STATES BUREAU OF MINES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES BUREAU OF MINES (54%); UNITED STATES BUREAU OF MINES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); WYOMING, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SODA ASH; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; PRICES INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POTASH SODA & BORATE MINING (90%); APPAREL MFG (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (88%); GARMENT WORKERS (88%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); LAYOFFS (87%); MINES & MINING (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); ALKALIS MFG (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); BREWERIES (70%); PAPER MILLS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); APPROVALS (69%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH ERNEST C HOLLINGS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



217 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 11; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HUNTS POINT/LONGWOOD;
Revival Stirs in Hunts Point

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, Duane Reade, the drugstore chain based in New York City, opened its second outlet in the Bronx, on Southern Boulevard in Hunts Point.
The opening would have drawn little attention in Manhattan, where the chain operates all but 6 of its 50 stores. But to many in Hunts Point, one of the city's poorest neighborhoods, the occasion signaled renewed confidence in the blocklong commercial strip between East 163d Street and Westchester Avenue. 
 The drugstore's arrival, along with its 40 jobs, comes at a time when vacancies on the 121-store strip are almost nil and the city's Economic Development Corporation is completing $900,000 worth of improvements on the sidewalks.
"This section of the South Bronx is a strong retail area," said Clay B. Lifflander, president of the Economic Development Corporation. "And, certainly, having a major chain like Duane Reade there is testimony to the area's business strength."
The strength follows the development of new houses in the area. As more and more people have moved in, the number of retail services has not climbed proportionately. And while residents living south and west of the strip are more likely to head to the Hub on 149th Street, Southern Boulevard draws many customers from the store-starved north.
Duane Reade had been considering the location for the last eight months, said Gary Charbonneau, a vice president at the drugstore chain, and thought that the promise of an untapped market outweighed concerns over safety.
The Southern Boulevard Chamber of Commerce now estimates the strip's occupancy rate at 97 percent. Tina Mateo, the chamber's director, calls it a significant improvement over three years ago when the poor economy and high rents combined to hold occupancy to about 80 percent.
"Businesses move in and out," she said. "But the turnover has been a lot less."
As business picked up in recent years, the chamber of commerce and the local community board began looking for funds to improve the street's infrastructure. The Economic Development Corporation began work on the street in the spring and expects to have most of the $900,000 project finished by Thanksgiving and the start of the holiday shopping season.
Many of the improvements are cosmetic: trees are being planted and bricks are being placed on the edge of sidewalks. But one change will seek to remedy what the chamber of commerce found was the commercial strip's biggest obstacle: fear of shopping here after dark. Ms. Mateo said 22 lampposts will be added to the 16 already there.
"Except in the summer, this area was dark at 4 P.M.," Ms. Mateo said. "Everybody went home. Nobody wants to go to a dark place and shop." But the lighting met city standards, so the chamber is paying for the new lampposts' annual maintenance of $2,000, she said.
Dr. Henry Blum, an optometrist who opened his shop in 1945, said he has seen the area go from middle class to a symbol of urban decay. But now, even when his Upper East Side neighbors shake their heads over his South Bronx location, he says he is optimistic. "They still have an image of when Jimmy Carter was here surrounded by burned-out buildings," he says. "It's not like that anymore." NORIMITSU ONISHI

GRAPHIC: Photo: On a commercial strip along Southern Boulevard, business is booming. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: DUANE READE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUANE READE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC); HUNTS POINT (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (75%); TRENDS (66%); THANKSGIVING (60%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU TINA MATEO (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



218 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: What Does Russia Want?

BYLINE: By Grigory A. Yavlinsky; Grigory A. Yavlinsky, an economist, is leader of a democratic opposition party in the Duma, the lower house of Parliament. This was translated from the Russian by Antonina W. Bouis.

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
An increasingly disquieting feature of Russian politics is President Boris Yeltsin's ambiguous attitude toward integration with the former Soviet republics.
Big unanswered questions hover in the air. With which members of the Commonwealth of Independent States -- if any -- should Russia integrate? How? On what basis? With what goals? And with what consequences for Russia, those republics and the rest of the world? 
 The United States and others may well conclude that a neo-imperialist Russia, catering to an outdated notion of its vital interests, is trying to re-create the defunct Soviet empire through military, political and economic integration. For this conclusion, blame Russia's chaotic foreign policy and vague priorities, as well as the influence of both Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky, the hard-line nationalist, and the Communists in the country's populist leadership.
When Americans raise objections, Moscow explains them away by arguing that the U.S. really does not want today's situation in Russia and the entire post-Soviet region to improve -- that it has an interest in doing everything possible to preserve instability.
To prevent confusion about its intentions, Russia must base its policies toward the former Soviet empire -- the "near abroad" -- on explicitly formulated, intelligible principles that reflect moral absolutes.
If Russia truly wants to remain democratic, these should be the principles: the states that appeared after the collapse of the Soviet Union must remain politically independent; integration must be voluntary, without any pressure from Russia; economic union should be the basic form of integration -- and in Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova the only form.
Why would this approach be practical? First, because neither Russia nor any other post-Soviet country can hope to join the European Community, much less NATO, in the near future. Russia and its neighbors need their own markets, which would provide the sole basis for economic growth in the next 5 to 10 years.
Second, because economic integration would result in greater social stability throughout the post-Soviet region.
An economic union would have to have three main features. First, a customs union. This would guarantee free trade and neutralize monopolies in these countries.
Then, a payments union. This would promote the convertibility of the currencies and, with help from the central banks, establish and support exchange rates. Of course, this assumes the coordination of fiscal and budgetary policies. A payments union would lead to greater stability of the currency systems and, consequently, to the growth of trade while significantly diminishing the risk of loss through wildly fluctuating exchange rates.
Finally, harmonized economic legislation. This would facilitate a single set of rules and simplify the movement of capital among the several countries.
If an economic union is formed, Russia would significantly slow the decline in production and reduce by 30 percent inflation and the growth of unemployment. An increase in sales in Commonwealth of Independent States markets would allow Russian enterprises to pay for their own restructuring, enabling them to enter world markets eventually with competitive products. Russia could temporarily provide gas and oil at a discount to such countries as Ukraine and Belarus. It would cost $2 billion to $3 billion a year -- a relatively small price to pay for a significant expansion of markets for Russia's industry and agriculture.
What most worries the democratic opposition in Russia is the absence of a clear stand among the country's leaders against military and political integration with Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova -- the only approach that can truly calm the fears among members of the Commonwealth of Independent States and make talk of neo-imperialism unfounded. (It would also prevent the potential danger of political schism between the western and eastern parts of Ukraine.)
Besides, a clearly expressed desire to avoid political and military union with the western countries of the former Soviet Union would weaken the pressure from Eastern European countries for early admission to NATO.
Russia has no need for a military union with Ukraine, Belarus or Moldova: no one is threatening it from the West. What it needs first and foremost is cooperation with Ukraine on reducing nuclear arms.
The economic scenario I propose might well persuade the U.S. to reduce its financial aid to Russia (including aid through international financial institutions) and to increase aid proportionately to other former Soviet countries. In particular, money could go to Ukraine or Belarus (on condition of faster market reforms) to support their balance of trade with Russia.
Any support that opened markets for Russia is more beneficial than direct aid. It would stimulate production in Russia. This would let the Russians work instead of receiving handouts. And it would support 25 million Russians living in the near-abroad.
Is economic integration without political integration possible? Yes. But Russia must understand that it must refrain from any political union with Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova whatsoever -- even if these states invite it -- because there would be only two possible outcomes: failure or neo-imperialism.
In view of the discomforting neo-imperialist thinking that is arising in Russia, formation of an economic bloc is the only reasonable counterweight.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (92%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); BELARUS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UKRAINE; BELARUS; MOLDOVA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (92%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); BELARUS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TRENDS (67%); CURRENCIES (65%); EXCHANGE RATES (64%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: YAVLINSKY, GRIGORY A MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



219 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: The World: Cardoso, the Global Salesman;
Brazil Thinks Big, Again

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: BRASILIA

 BODY:
FOR only the second time since 1960, Brazil held presidential elections last week. But voting in the hemisphere's second largest democracy -- which brought to power Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a former Foreign Minister and Finance Minister with big plans -- failed to draw any television crews from the hemisphere's largest democracy, the United States. Without a military coup to grab headlines or a nuclear bomb to inspire fear, Brazil is huge in just about everything but the amount of outside interest it generates.
It has always been thus, it seems. Regardless of the global aspirations its leaders proclaimed and the country's obvious potential in resources, Brazil long failed to find the right political structure or, when it did, the right person to lead it from the third world to the world stage. First there were two decades of clunky military rule, then a transition to direct voting leading to the election of a youthful, smooth-talker who proved too smooth -- that is to say corrupt -- followed finally by his replacement with a safe but lackluster caretaker. 
 With these unsatisfactory experiences behind them, many Brazilians now figure they have learned a thing or two and are pointing not only to Mr. Cardoso's election but to Brazil's swift opening to foreign imports and investment as evidence the country just may at last be headed for the big time.
 
Insular No More
 On the economic side, Brazil has abandoned decades of insular protectionism, slashing import tariffs to an average level of 14 percent. Responding speedily, foreign traders, largely Americans, have increased imports to Brazil by 50 percent in two years. With other free market changes cutting inflation and encouraging growth, foreign investment has doubled in two years.
"American businessmen are faster than American journalists," said Brazil's Ambassador to the United States, Paulo Tarso Flecha de Lima.
On the political side, Brazil will have a cosmopolitan salesman as leader when Mr. Cardoso takes office next year.
The 63-year-old President-elect (who handily defeated the leftist Luis Inacia Lula da Silva) speaks fluent English, French and Spanish, and was Brazil's Foreign Minister -- the first to rise to the presidency. He also has visited 34 countries, and he is the first Brazilian president in memory to have lived overseas -- in Chile, France and the United States.
The contrast with the past is striking. From 1964 to 1985, Brazil was run by nationalistic generals (under whose rule Mr. Cardoso, a former professor, was exiled, imprisoned and blacklisted), and one military president's world experience was limited to service as a military attache in Uruguay. Itamar Franco, Brazil's current president, who is completing the term of the suave Fernando Collor de Mello, whom Parliament forced out 1992 in a huge corruption scandal, does not like to fly in airplanes, speaks only Portuguese and routinely cancels foreign trips on short notice. Two weeks ago, he canceled a trip to New York to address the United Nations General Assembly. In fact, although the United States is Brazil's largest foreign investor and trading partner, he has never visited the United States.
Other factors have prolonged Brazil's insularity. Defaults on foreign debt payments soured international relations until a restructuring was finally agreed upon last April. Brazil has also been on the defensive on social and environmental issues -- killings of street youths, invasions of Indian lands and the destruction of the Amazon rain forest.
But Brazilian diplomats assert that while the country makes headway on social and environmental issues, economic issues are likely to loom of greater importance to the outside world, as they have with China. Indeed, Brazil is one of 10 "big emerging markets" identified as targets for trade and investment by the United States Commerce Department.
 
More Assertive
 "In Asia, China is in that category," said Jeffrey E. Garten, United States Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade. "In this hemisphere, we think it is Brazil."
Other nations are coming to similar conclusions. In the last year, nine British ministers have traveled here. Peter W. Heap, the British Ambassador, said: "Each has arrived skeptical or hesitant. Each has gone away dumbfounded or spellbound."
With a World Cup soccer victory last July restoring Brazilians' self-esteem and a new economic plan -- Mr. Cardoso's -- restoring credibility to their currency, Brazilians are more assertive in foreign affairs.
At home, Brazil positions itself, like an industrial queen bee, in the middle of a South American free trade zone that echoes the North American Free Trade Agreement among Canada, Mexico and the United States. Starting Jan. 1, virtually all trade will be duty-free between Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay. Last month, Chile and Bolivia started talks on association. Next week, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela are to start talks.
In international forums, Brazil increasingly speaks up. At the United Nations last week, Foreign Minister Celso Amorim announced that Brazil wants a seat on an expanded Security Council.
Of course, the bubble could burst if the new leadership fails to meet the buoyed expectations of the Brazilian masses -- say, if the nation's economic growth, forecast at a robust 5 percent annually for the next few years, fails to narrow the huge disparities in income between the relatively few well-off and the majority who are wrenchingly poor.
But then, Brazilians have been disappointed before.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Henrique Cardoso. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (79%); URUGUAY (79%); CHILE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (79%); URUGUAY (79%); CHILE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (71%); COUPS (71%); PROTECTIONISM (70%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); SCANDALS (67%); TRENDS (64%); 

PERSON: CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE; BROOKE, JAMES LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



220 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet;
Dialogue That Lingers: 'Hi, Mom.' 'Hi, Pop.' 'Hi, David.' 'Hi, Rick.'

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
WHAT is the original definition of an adventure in the world of television? Being pushed out of a helicopter by an assassin, only to be saved by a sky-diving sidekick? Nah. Attempting vehicular homicide on your ex-husband, and framing his other ex-wife for it? Nope. An adventure, in the root television meaning of the word, is Harriet Nelson getting Ozzie to fix the broken kitchen door.
 Or maybe it's Ozzie and Harriet deciding that David, their teen-age son, is old enough to have a key to the house. Or refereeing when David complains that his kid brother Rick's rock music keeps him from studying symphony records. That was how Ozzie and his co-writers, Don Nelson, Bill Davenport and Ben Gershman, defined adventure.
 
 Harriet, she of the sweetly hoarse voice and sunny smile, died last week at the age of 85, leaving David Nelson, now 57, the sole member of the family that sought to teach the country about families. For 14 years, from 1952 to 1966, "The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet" was broadcast by ABC-TV, becoming television's longest-running situation comedy and an epic tribute to family tribulations, as they were then understood.
 Alex McNeil, a lawyer and television historian in Boston, argues that "they never had an adventure." One could argue that we've just suffered from adventure inflation since then. Meet the Nelsons, and decide. FELICITY BARRINGER
 In the show's early years, the advertisements for kitchen appliances or hospital-tested antacids were melded into the leitmotif of family life. This 1952 episode, titled "The Pancake Mix," begins with Harriet on the telephone to the drugstore, saying, "Say, would you please include a couple of large bottles of Listerine with our order? Yes, please. It's just wonderful for keeping those colds away."
 Then the announcer took over:
 Listerine Antiseptic, Listerine toothpaste and Pro-phy-lac-tic toothbrushes present America's favorite family comedy, "The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet." So settle back in your easy chairs and enjoy another delightful half-hour with all the Nelsons.
 Ozzie Nelson, of course, plays the part of the head of the Nelson household, Ozzie. And here's his lovely wife, Harriet Nelson, who keeps the family on an even keel. Hello, Harriet. The smiling young teen-ager we now see is David Nelson, older of the two Nelson boys and played by David Nelson. And here we have the youngest of the Nelsons, the little guy with the twinkle in his eye, Ricky Nelson, played by Ricky Nelson.
 Ozzie and the boys are at breakfast. Harriet is at the stove.
 HARRIET: And there's a couple more pancakes here, if you guys are ready.
 DAVID: They sure do taste good, Mom.
 RICK: Yeah, they sure do, Mom.
 OZZIE: Would you pass me the syrup, please, Rick?
 DAVID: Boy, nobody can make pancakes like Mom.
 RICK: Nobody can eat like Pop.
 OZZIE: Just a second, young fellow. Think you're doing pretty well yourself for such a little guy.
 HARRIET: I'll keep making them as long as you guys keep eating them.
 DAVID: They sure are good, Mom.
 HARRIET: That's what I like to hear. What's the verdict from dear old Dad?
 OZZIE: Well, evidently you haven't been counting or you'd know that dear old Dad took on about five pounds of pancakes this morning. I'll take another one right now.
 RICK: Can I have a couple more, Mom?
 HARRIET: Yes, you bet you can. Help yourself. You know I really hate to admit this, but I can't take all the credit for these pancakes this morning.
 OZZIE: Well, all we did was eat them.
 HARRIET: Well, what I mean is I didn't exactly make these myself. They came already prepared.
 DAVID: Oh?
 OZZIE: Is that something new?
 HARRIET: Well this is the first time I've tried to make them this way. You don't have to mix any pancake batter. It's already mixed for you. . . .
 RICK: What's this about money?
 OZZIE: Where?
 RICK: Right here on the box.
 OZZIE (reading): "If you are not absolutely satisfied that Hasty-Tasty makes the finest pancakes that you've ever eaten, then return the unused portion and we will cheerfully give you double your money back."
 DAVID: Double your money back?
 RICK: Oh boy, we're rich, Pop! (With a twinkle in his eye) Lucky we didn't like them, huh?
 OZZIE: Now, wait a second. Not so fast.
 Rick calculates that returning the 47-cent box would net him 94 cents. A few scenes later, Ozzie lectures Harriet about the virtues of holding people to their word, saying he heard someone actually returned a box of Hasty-Tasty pancake mix.
 OZZIE: Oh, hi, Rick. I was just telling your mother, somebody'd come into the grocery store down there and demanded double his money back, didn't like the pancakes. I'd just said I'd like to meet the man and shake him by the hand.
 RICK: Honest, Pop?
 OZZIE: Well, sure.
 RICK: Put 'er there, ol' buddy.
 OZZIE: You mean you were the guy?
 RICK: Sure, I keep telling you. I don't mess around, boy.
 The dramatic conflict in another episode, also from 1952, was constructed around two chairs delivered to the Nelsons by mistake. Ozzie calls the store.
 OZZIE: Oh, hello. My name is Nelson. . . . A couple of large living room chairs were delivered to our house when there was nobody home. That is, only our boys were home. They let the men in. . . .
 HARRIET: Get to the point, dear.
 CLERK: Now, what's this about the chairs, please?
 OZZIE: Aahh, well, they were delivered to our house, but we didn't order them. . . .
 CLERK: What was the name again, please?
 OZZIE: Nelson. Ozzie Nelson.
 CLERK: Oh thank you Mr. Nelson. . . .
 OZZIE: Just one thing, though. The name on the receipt will be David, David Nelson. They were sent to Ozzie Nelson but David signed for them.
 CLERK: I see. Is that R -- Robert?
OZZIE: R?
 CLERK: Did you say they were ordered by R. Z. Nelson?
 OZZIE: No, no, no, no, no. They were ordered by Ozzie Nelson. Not R. Z. Aaaaah, like in gargle.
 CLERK: I'm terribly sorry. . . . The chairs were ordered by this Mr. Gargie Nelson?
 OZZIE: They were not ordered by Gargie. . . . In the first place, there's nobody in the world named Gargie Nelson. Miss, let's assume for the moment that there is such a person as Gargie Nelson. He did not order the chairs.
 CLERK: That's what you said. They were ordered by David Nelson.
 OZZIE: No, no, no, no. David is the boy who signed for them.
 CLERK: I see. That David was at Gargie Nelson's house at the time the chairs arrived.
 OZZIE: That's right. David is my son. I'm Gargie. Now, at your convenience would you please stop by and pick up the two chairs?

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nelson Family: Ricky, Harriet, Ozzie, and David. (Culver Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVENTURES OF OZZIE AND HARRIET, THE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); FAMILY (88%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); SKYDIVING (78%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (72%); HISTORY (69%); POP & ROCK (69%); 

PERSON: NELSON, HARRIET BILL NELSON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



221 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: PENTAGON MOVING A FORCE OF 4,000 TO GUARD KUWAIT

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
The United States ordered 4,000 Army troops to Kuwait today as Iraqi forces massed near the Kuwaiti border.
The Pentagon announced the move as intelligence reports indicated that Iraq's forces near Kuwait had grown to about 50,000 troops, some of whom have moved within 12 miles of the border. 
 Lieut. Gen. Jack Sheehan of the Marines, who is director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the Iraqi forces gathering near Kuwait included about 14,000 elite Republican Guard soldiers and presented a clear threat to Kuwait.
The American military deployments ordered on Friday and today are both a message to Baghdad not to attack and a hedge in case an attack does occur. To make clear what the stakes are, President Clinton, Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Defense Secretary William J. Perry and General Sheehan all bluntly warned Iraq against attacking.
"I want to make it clear one more time," Mr. Clinton said. "It would be a grave error for Iraq to repeat the mistakes of the past or to misjudge either American will or American power."
The United Nations Security Council also put Baghdad on notice that Kuwait would be defended.
In addition to the 4,000-member Army task force of the 24th Mechanized Division from Fort Stewart, Ga., the Pentagon is sending two Patriot anti-missile batteries to Saudi Arabia.
American officials said that other units had been put on alert and that additional military deployments might be ordered soon. The units ordered to be ready to deploy include the remainder of the 24th Mechanized Division, an armored unit that fought in the Persian Gulf war, a wing of Air Force combat planes, and the First Marine Expeditionary Force at Camp Pendleton, Calif.
American officials said Mr. Perry and Gen. John M. D. Shalikashvili, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, would be stopping at the United States Central Command Headquarters in Tampa, Fla., while returning from Haiti, to review the situation in the gulf and decide what additional deployments were needed.
The Central Command, which is led by Gen. Binford Peay of the Army, who commanded the 101st Airborne Division in the Persian Gulf war, has responsibility for American military operations in the Middle East. Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi Ambassador to Washington, also visited the command's headquarters today to consult with American military officials.
Some American officials said the Iraqi moves were probably no more than a bluff on the part of President Saddam Hussein, aimed at coercing the Security Council to lift economic sanctions. By this view, Iraq's intention is to demonstrate that it still has the military ability to stir up trouble if the sanctions are not removed. The United Nations commission overseeing the disarmament of Iraq is scheduled to report to the Security Council on Monday, putting the issue of removing the sanctions squarely on the table.
While some officials said Iraq was posturing or planning a small provocative move, others said they were reluctant to interpret Mr. Hussein's intentions. One worry is that Mr. Hussein may have concluded that the United States is tied down in Haiti, reluctant to involve itself in another military confrontation in the gulf and therefore believes that this is the time to strike. Officials well recall how top members of the Bush Administration believed that Mr. Hussein was posturing before his invasion of Kuwait in 1990.
"He could be bluffing, but we have to assume the worst," a senior Administration official said. "We just have to play it as it comes and be ready for anything."
In a closed session of the Security Council, Madeleine K. Albright, the United States delegate to the United Nations, warned that if Iraq continued its military preparations, it could amass a force of 60,000 men and 1,000 tanks within striking distance of Kuwait.
The Iraqi troops south of Basra or heading there include forces from the Hammurabi division, the Nida division and the Adnan division, all Republican Guard units that represent the most capable and loyal troops in the Iraqi Army.
Adding to the Clinton Administration's anxieties is the fact that the United States now has a comparatively tiny military presence in the gulf region -- about 12,000 troops. Moreover, it currently has only two ships in the region that are able to launch cruise missiles. And while the United States has about 80 planes in Saudi Arabia, it only has about two dozen F-16 and F-15E planes able to drop bombs. No A-10 antitank planes or F-117 "stealth" fighters are there.
Because the American ability to defend Kuwait is so limited, the Pentagon did not promise today that it could stop an Iraqi attack if one were launched right away. Rather, Pentagon officials spoke in terms of "punishing" the Iraqis if they crossed the Kuwait border. The officials today issued a pointed warning that an Iraqi attack on Kuwait would prompt an American cruise missile attack against Baghdad.
"We are clearly in a position right now that if Saddam Hussein does something, we can punish those forces," General Sheehan told reporters. "We clearly have the capacity to go to downtown Baghdad. And as I said before, that's one of the lessons I hope Saddam learned the last time we did this."
General Sheehan said that when additional naval reinforcements arrived, the United States would have about 200 cruise missiles in the region. The 4,000 Army troops that are being sent will use tanks and other military equipment stored in Kuwait.
Administration officials said Iraq's apparent efforts to precipitate a crisis were likely to backfire at the United Nations. Instead of setting a date for lifting the sanctions, the Security Council is likely to deliver a firm rebuff, American officials said.
To win support in the Security Council, Ms. Albright showed five spy satellite photos. An American official said the photographs showed a T-72 tank and units from the Hammurabi division, which escaped the allied attack during the Persian Gulf war, near the Kuwaiti border.
After the Council meeting, the British representative, Sir David Hannay, issued a statement on behalf of the Council, reaffirming the United Nations' commitment "to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait."
The Council also urged the United Nations observer mission in Kuwait to report any violations of the border and expressed concern over Iraq's threat to prevent United Nations monitoring of its military sites if the Council did not ease the economic sanctions on Iraq.
The sanctions imposed on Iraq include a ban on oil exports and other bans on other types of trade. An exception is made for imports of food, medicine and relief supplies. The ban is enforced by a naval blockade, and no air traffic is allowed in or out of Iraq.
In an effort to underscore the Administration's resolve, President Clinton and top officials tried to speak with a command voice.
Mr. Christopher, who left today for a trip to the Middle East, added, "Current Iraqi troop movements and recent statements by Iraq's Revolutionary Command Council must not be allowed to intimidate either Iraq's neighbors or the United Nations Security Council."
Iraqi officials have insisted that their actions are peaceful. "Iraq is a sovereign state," said Nizar Hamdoon, the Iraqi delegate to the United Nations. "It has all the rights to move its troops within its territories and borders."
But Iraqi diplomats gave similar assurances before Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait.
The Administration took the first steps to strengthen its military force in the Persian Gulf region on Friday. Acting on the recommendations of General Peay, the White House ordered the aircraft carrier George Washington to sail to the Red Sea, along with other warships.
It also ordered an amphibious force of 2,000 Marines to the northern Persian Gulf. It dispatched huge floating warehouses full of tanks and weapons to sail from Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean to the gulf.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi Information Minister Hamed Yussef Hammadi denied Iraqi troops were moving toward Kuwait. Two Kuwaiti officers, in foreground, and United Nations soldiers stood guard at the border on Friday. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. 10)
 
Map of Iraq and Kuwait. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); KUWAIT (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (88%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); KUWAIT (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (88%); HAITI (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ARMED FORCES (95%); ARMIES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DESERT STORM (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (68%); DISARMAMENT (66%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (65%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC); PERRY, WILLIAM J (SEC); SHEEHAN, JACK (LIEUT GEN) BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



222 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Threatens to End U.N. Role If Oil Export Ban Is Not Lifted

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Iraq said today that it did not want "war or military confrontation" with the United States, but it threatened to end its cooperation with the United Nations if a crippling ban on its oil exports was not lifted.
"We are not seeking war or military confrontation at all," said the Government newspaper al-Jumhouriya in a front-page editorial. "But we need to put an end to the suffering of our people by lifting the sanctions through any means." 
 Fighting with the United States would "aggravate the suffering of the Iraqi people," the newspaper said. "But if America chose to commit a new military aggression, then we will be obliged to defend ourselves."
Iraq issued the statement as the United States and Britain moved military forces into position to counter any possible threat by Iraqi troops, who have been moving toward the border in recent days. An official spokesman for the Ministry of Culture and Information neither confirmed nor denied the reports of an Iraqi military buildup in the south.
The newspaper report said the United Nations sanctions imposed on Iraq after its invasion of Kuwait in August 1990 had led to "widespread poverty, rampant crime, immorality and are causing the society to disintegrate."
Spelling out for the first time what action Iraq might take if the oil embargo were not lifted, the newspaper said, "The process to save the Iraqi people may start by reconsidering cooperation with the United Nations and canceling all that has been agreed on or implemented."
This apparently meant that Iraq would not allow the monitoring system of its arms industry already installed by the United Nations to go ahead and would not abide by cease-fire resolutions that prevented Iraq from rearming itself. The economic sanctions were imposed at the end of the Persian Gulf war.
In Baghdad there were few signs of a country preparing itself for war although there was some hurried buying of staple foods, but no new price rises.
"If sanctions remain, there will be starvation," said Jaleel Abdulnabi, a shopkeeper.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (74%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DESERT STORM (79%); STARVATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (53%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



223 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATS;
Clinton and Allies Rediscover Their Voice in Writing Epitaph for Congress

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
With Republicans unabashedly claiming credit for tying Congress up in knots, Democrats acted almost like mute bystanders -- until now.
For months, Democrats seemed to have lost their voice as Republicans rolled over them in Congress. As long as Democrats, who control both chambers, were trying to reach legislative accommodation with the Republicans, they could not afford to trash them. Moreover, the party seemed stunned into silence by predictions of big Republican gains in November and of a Democratic President who seemed to be a political untouchable. 
 But as members of the 103d Congress headed home today to campaign, Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the departing majority leader, picked up the themes that President Clinton voiced on Friday.
"Change is never easy or achieved without resistance and opposition," Mr. Mitchell said on the Senate floor, hailing enactment of President Clinton's deficit-reduction program and economic growth plan as "by far the most important action" of the 103d Congress.
For some, the Democrats' new-found voice appeared like water in the desert.
"Out here in the hinterlands," said Mark McKinnon, a Democratic campaign consultant based in Austin, Tex., "we feel that the Republicans have been finger-painting all over us for months, and it's high time we threw some paint back in their faces. We're delighted."
When asked if this would be enough to get the Democrats back on track, Mr. McKinnon demurred. "In politics," he said, "doing something is always better than doing nothing."
As the Democrats try to overcome weeks of sour news about Congress's inability to act and its basement-level approval ratings, the centerpiece of their message is that change is always difficult but that they have the courage to try to bring it about.
Their thrust will be to draw a distinction between the parties, portraying themselves, as President Clinton did in his 1992 campaign, as the agents of change and casting the Republicans as throwbacks to an era when the rich got richer. The Republican's "Contract with America" reinforces those differences, the Democrats say, and they intend to use the contract against Republican candidates as the campaign season moves into its final weeks. Hundreds of Republican incumbents and candidates signed the contract on Sept. 27, promising tax cuts, more military spending and a balanced-budget amendment in the first 100 days of the next Congress if Republicans won a majority in the House.
President Clinton, for instance, said at a news conference on Friday, "The message I have to say is, what is the direction you want?"
Democrats, the President said, are fighting for the future of ordinary people by passing bills like family leave and making college loans more available, while Republicans, he continued, are offering nothing more than Reaganomics, higher deficits and cuts in Medicare.
The message was reiterated throughout the day on Friday. At a breakfast with reporters, the White House chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, boasted of the Administration's record. And finally, after being pummeled on the House and Senate floors for the last several weeks by the increasingly bold Republican minority, Democratic leaders pointedly blamed Republicans for foiling their best-laid plans.
The Democrats admittedly had been doing nothing. Stymied on Capitol Hill, they lashed out at the news media and looked increasingly ineffective as the Republicans staged a filibuster frenzy that choked off several Democratic initiatives.
But all that changed, Democratic officials said, when more than 350 Republicans running for Congress gathered outside the Capitol 11 days ago and signed the Contract with America.
Examining the contract, the forlorn Democrats suddenly sounded as if they had found the Hope Diamond.
"There is not a night that I don't thank God for the contract," said Paul Begala, a Democratic consultant and political adviser to President Clinton. "It is the greatest gift to the Democratic Party since Medicare."
Tony Coelho, the former Democratic congressman who is taking over the helm of the Democratic National Committee after this fall's elections, said: "That was our break. We think we can win on it."
Democrats are casting the contract as a retread of Reaganomics, the mere mention of which makes focus groups blanch, Mr. Coelho said.
"People immediately understand what Reaganomics means -- tax benefits for the wealthy, deficit increases and cuts in programs for seniors and veterans," he said. "It doesn't take any coaching. They gave us a vehicle we do not have to educate people on."
Mr. Coelho said the contract, put together by Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the Republican whip, and Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster who worked for Ross Perot's independent Presidential bid in 1992, was intended to appeal to Perot voters but will backfire.
"It has given us something to go to our base with and get our base voter, who was not motivated before, to come out," he said, noting that the contract provided a clear difference between the parties -- a distinction the Democrats had been unable to draw on their own. "Our base voter is now motivated, and I think it will make the difference. This is the beginning of the campaign. We are engaged."
The party plans to begin a television advertising campaign next week taking aim at the contract, one that all Democrats can use.
Still, they must overcome the message that Republicans have been hammering home, virtually unchallenged, since the summer: that Republicans have been saving the country from bad Democratic legislation.
Despite their minority status, the Republicans have virtually controlled the legislative agenda since they stalled the crime bill in July. The President responded by excoriating the Republicans, a tactic that got him nowhere. Only by meeting some Republican demands, including those of freshmen, did he eventually win over enough votes to pass the crime bill -- and in the process, set a pattern that emboldened the minority.
Mike Casey, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, explained the party's delayed response to Republican attacks by saying the Democrats had been committed to governing, not politics.
"Call us crazy," he said, "but we were actually trying to accomplish some things, and that was given a higher priority than trying to out-napalm Newt Gingrich." But now that the Republicans have "thrown sand in the engine and brought everything to a halt," he said, "they need to be held accountable for their obstructionist actions."
Some skittish Democrats worry that the party's counteroffensive is too little too late. Others are more optimistic, suggesting that the Republicans may have overreached.
"No question, the Republicans had the upper hand," said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster. "But now, individual Democrats can go home and say, 'I'm as mad as you are.' "
The end of the legislative session has provided as much of an opening for the Democrats to get organized as the contract has.
"Two or three weeks ago, people were in a panic," said a Democratic operative, speaking on condition of anonymity, referring to Democratic candidates. "Now they're thinking: 'Hey, all is not lost. There's the contract. And we're going home.' "
While incumbents were still in Washington, they would naturally be linked with Congress and national issues -- and with President Clinton. But once home, they believe, they will fare better by running on local issues, and they are determined not to let Republicans "nationalize" their campaigns.
Mr. Begala said the challenge would now be to link the Contract with America with what the Republicans have been doing in Congress.
"They were talking about obstructionism in the service of a cause," he said. "That cause was protecting privilege and power and hurting people. The Republicans gloat about killing health care, but a million people have lost their health care in the last year. This whole idea flows into the Reaganomics of the contract. We will use it."
Until the contract came along, Mr. Coelho said, "Democratic voters were disgusted with Democrats and sitting at home, and Republicans were feeling fabulous and aggressive and ready to go. Now, Democrats are fighting, and Democrats are going to be turned on. This will be an interesting and engaging four weeks."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The House Democratic leader, Richard A. Gephardt, the Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell, and House Speaker Thomas S. Foley said at a news conference on Friday that their party would campaign against the Republicans' campaign "Contract with America." (Vincent J. Ricardel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); TAX LAW (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); FAMILY (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); MEDICARE (60%); DEFENSE SPENDING (60%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); MITCHELL, GEORGE J (SEN); FOLEY, THOMAS S (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



224 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: A Consumer Watchdog Is Eliminated

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J.

 BODY:
Iris E. Greene, a nurse's aide, desperately needed help several years ago after she had paid usurious interest rates -- $3,300 in installments for $2,800 worth of furniture -- at a store here, and still had it repossessed for having missed a few payments following a heart attack. "I cried as they carried it away," Ms. Greene recalled.
A state agency, the Department of the Public Advocate, stepped in. The department, New Jersey's chief consumer advocate, convinced the State Attorney General to go to court on Ms. Greene's behalf and, last March, a judge ruled in her favor. 
 But the Public Advocate was unable to press for new state regulations that would protect all New Jersey consumers against similar losses, because the agency itself fell victim to changing priorities in New Jersey and the nation.
To help cope with budget problems in 1991 and 1992, Democratic leaders in Trenton decided to eliminate the agency's consumer protection programs, which had handled everything from AIDS discrimination to furniture-store scams. Then, in July, the state's Republican leaders eliminated the Public Advocate entirely.
Consumer advocates and civil libertarians mourn the agency's demise, saying that New Jersey, which had been an early pioneer in consumer protection, was now following a pack of other state and local governments in abandoning support for consumer programs.
The fiscal realities of the 1990's have been a prime reason for the cutbacks. But consumer leaders contend that the programs have also been targeted for elimination by conservative politicians, whose free-market philosophy has no place for a public agency that represents the special interests of consumers.
"The Public Advocate was the crown jewel of consumer and taxpayer protection in state governments," said Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate. "Imagine destroying a tiny government department whose sole function was to make the rest of the bureaucracy more responsive, more efficient and more fair. It's pretty sad."
But the New Jersey officials who eliminated the Public Advocate say that the reorganization will serve consumers and taxpayers.
"In our view, nothing that was done rises to the level of undercutting or eroding the rights of consumers in this state," said Carl Golden, a spokesman for Gov. Christine Todd Whitman. "The rationale for abolishing the agency, apart from saving a million or two a year, was the feeling on the part of the Governor, and the Legislature agreed, that its functions could be carried out within existing agencies."
Across the region and the nation, consumer-protection agencies have not weathered the recession well. Connecticut's Consumer Protection Department has had its budget reduced by one-third since 1991, to $8 million this year. The New York Consumer Protection Board had five lawyers practicing consumer law four years ago, but now has only two.
"There is no question that all around the country there has been a retrenchment of governmental consumer-protection services," said Richard M. Kessel, the New York board's executive director.
The Alaska Attorney General closed its seven consumer-protection offices. Consumer-protection agencies have also been closed in recent years in Boston, Cleveland, Dallas, Syracuse and dozens of other cities and counties. In New Jersey, county offices have closed in Sussex and Morris, and budgets have been slashed in Camden and Bergen.
"We used to mediate consumer complaints, but now we tell people to get an attorney or go to Small Claims Court," said Patricia M. Tuck, Camden's director of consumer affairs. In 1990, her agency had a staff of nine including five investigators; today it is just Ms. Tuck, her secretary and a college intern.
The loss of New Jersey's Public Advocate is considered a stunning defeat for the consumer movement, because the agency had much more independence and authority than comparable agencies in other states.
Wilfredo Caraballo, who served as Public Advocate from 1990 to 1992, says that the agency was eliminated principally because of its success in pursuing civil rights cases, including ones that forced suburbs to include low-income housing in new developments and others that forced school districts to consider consolidation to achieve racial balance.
"Some legislators didn't like it that we won cases," Mr. Caraballo said. "But by winning, we were vindicating people's rights."
But State Senator Gerald Cardinale, a Republican from Englewood Cliffs who sponsored the Whitman plan, argues that a nuisance has been eliminated.
"The Public Advocate would sue other branches of government for the sake of suing," Mr. Cardinale said. "And they would frequently win because the courts were of the same philosophical bent."
Gov. Brendan T. Byrne created the Public Advocate 20 years ago in the aftermath of Watergate and investigations of political corruption in New Jersey. The agency subsumed the existing office of Public Defender, which represented poor defendants in criminal trials. Gov. Christine Todd Whitman and the Republican-led Legislature eliminated the Public Advocate on the grounds that a cabinet-level agency was unnecessary and too litigious.
But the dismemberment of the Public Advocate's seven divisions clearly diminished consumers' voice in state government, many consumer advocates say. Under the reorganization, only the Office of Public Defender, which is mandated by law, escaped major alteration.
The division of public interest advocacy and the division of citizen complaints, which had already lost their funding under Gov. Jim Florio, were entirely eliminated in July.
The division of public interest advocacy, which was essentially the nation's first and only state-supported public interest law firm, once had the authority to sue just about anyone in the state, including the governor. In more than 2,000 lawsuits over 20 years, the division won both friends and enemies by seeking to enforce state and Federal laws governing things like consumer fraud, exclusionary zoning in the suburbs, racial integration in city schools and discriminatory beach fees that shore communities charged nonresidents.
Some other divisions were shifted to other agencies, but with their budgets and missions greatly reduced. For example, the rate council division was once the official advocate for utility consumers. A new division was created to represent residential, commercial and industrial customers. Called the ratepayer advocate, it has a new mandate: to try to accommodate the needs of utilities and use litigation as a last resort.
The state privatized two other divisions of the Public Advocate, spinning them off as a Federally funded nonprofit organization with no state support other than some office space in Trenton. The divisions were developmental disabilities, which represents people with physical and learning disabilities, and mental health advocacy, which represents patients in mental hospitals.
The new organization, called New Jersey Protection and Advocacy, will continue to press for systemwide improvements in special education and mental health programs, but it has sharply curtailed its advocacy services for individual clients, said Sarah H. Mitchell, the director of the new organization.
The division of inmate advocacy, which had acted as an ombudsman for inmates, has been restricted to completing a half-dozen class-action lawsuits that primarily deal with overcrowded conditions in county jails and state prisons.
Susan Remis Silver, director of the division, said that phasing out her agency was shortsighted and not cost-effective. "The reason my office was created was to prevent riots," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 OTHER BUSINESS SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC ADVOCATE DEPARTMENT (NJ) BUSINESS FURNITURE INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC ADVOCATE DEPARTMENT (NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PROTECTION CONSUMER LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FURNITURE STORES (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); JUDGES (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



225 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Can Olympic Torch Ignite Atlanta Reconstruction?

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Oct. 8

 BODY:
First a quixotic pipe dream, then an exhilarating but distant reality, the 1996 Summer Olympic Games have suddenly become a juggernaut transforming the look and feel of Atlanta.
But as the pieces come together for the $1.6 billion Olympiad, the largest extravaganza any American city has ever staged, it remains unclear whether the games will produce anything resembling the inner-city revitalization that many here envisioned when Atlanta was awarded the games four years ago. 
 The approval last week of a $50 million, 60-acre Centennial Park that will be the heart of a 100-acre public space for the games is only the most recent sign that fund raising and construction are largely on track for the games' scheduled opening on July 19, 1996. The Atlanta Olympics are expected to draw 2 million people, generate $5 billion in economic activity and be twice the size of the 1984 games in Los Angeles.
"We've divided the pie, we've made virtually all the deals, and you can already feel the anticipation that this is going to happen, this is going to be great," said Billy Payne, president of the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games. "People realize, my goodness, we are transforming our community."
But in a city where former Mayor Maynard Jackson used to talk about the "twin peaks of Atlanta's Mount Olympus" -- the first a successful staging of the games, the second an extensive revitalization program -- the second peak remains largely speculative and the subject of mounting anxiety as opening day draws ever closer.
City officials say that winning the right to stage the Olympics set off inflated expectations, but that Olympics development is already making Atlanta a better place.
"Anybody who believes the Olympics is an anti-poverty program is not being realistic," said Mayor Bill Campbell. "But anyone with any sense at all will see that the life of virtually everyone in Atlanta will be enhanced tremendously by hosting the games."
But some critics say the development is too little, too late and often of the wrong kind.
"I think we've lost a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity," said the Rev. Timothy McDonald, co-chairman of the Atlanta Olympic Conscience Coalition, which has advocated more housing and development in inner-city neighborhoods. "When it comes to the poor," he added, the corporate and civic forces behind the games "know how to get silent in seven different languages."
Officials of the local Olympic committee say that there is little margin for error in either time or dollars, but that Olympic plans are proceeding roughly on schedule. An auditor's report this summer said the committee would at least break even on the games. Construction is well under way at the $169 million Olympic Village, which will eventually become student housing at the Georgia Institute of Technology, and a new $170 million stadium, which will become a new home for the Atlanta Braves baseball team.
And though Peachtree Street will never be confused with the Ramblas, the grand promenade that was part of Barcelona's dazzling backdrop for the 1992 games, Atlanta will now have the just-approved Centennial Park as a much-needed gathering place for the '96 games.
It will be built by bulldozing a ragged area dominated by small shops and light industrial buildings. In addition, the adjacent area will include a 14-acre amusement park developed by the Coca-Cola Company and a 20-acre privately developed "global village" called '96 Expo.
The road to the games is certain to be bumpy, even without considering the logistical and traffic nightmare of staging events in the July Georgia heat. Over the next month the Olympic committee will begin negotiating with the city over millions of dollars of Olympics-related public services. Olympic organizers have pledged that the games will be staged with privately raised money. But city officials and the Olympic committee are likely to have differing views on what city services should be covered by the committee and how much those costs should be offset by new revenue like increased sales or hotel taxes.
John A. Lucas, a professor and expert on the Olympics at Pennsylvania State University, said he doubts whether Atlanta can become the only Olympiad other than Los Angeles to come up with enough private financing to meet all the costs of staging the games.
"I think they're going to pull off a very excellent Olympics games, but they're going to do it by a gnat's tooth, by a whisker," Professor Lucas said. "In my opinion they will lose money rather than make money. The Olympics is not a money-making venture."
For now, most signs are positive for projects and fund-raising directly tied to putting on the Olympic events. But the outlook is less certain for using the games to revitalize Atlanta. City officials are scrambling to capitalize on the games without using any of the money being raised by the Olympic committee.
Amid concerns that Atlanta would not even repair decrepit streets and sewer systems in time for the games, the city this summer passed a $149.9 million bond referendum. More than $17 million will go toward a goal of $65 million (the rest to come from other sources) for street and thoroughfare improvements downtown and in neighborhoods nearby.
But so far only $37 million of the $65 million has been raised. An earlier financing proposal, to levy a surcharge on tickets, meals, parking and hotels for a $100 million Olympic Legacy Trust Fund for housing and other local needs, went nowhere. The site for Centennial Park has virtually no permanent residents, but small businesses and two homeless shelters will be displaced.
Critics say the park will chiefly benefit the games and Coca-Cola, the corporate giant whose environs will undergo a massive dose of urban renewal. They say the city's ability to come up with $50 million for the park, while other projects languish, reflects the city's real priorities.
"We've done amazing things in this community, and will continue to do so, but not for the people I serve," said Anita Beaty, co-chairwoman of the Olympic Conscience Coalition.
But others see advantages even for the poor. There is a $42 million facelift for the Techwood/Clark Howell Homes housing project near Georgia Tech. Habitat for Humanity is planning to build 100 houses. In the Summerhill neighborhood, near the Olympic stadium, redevelopment plans call for 300 new housing units.
The Olympic Committee is awarding about a third of its contracts to minority concerns. And city officials say their street and parks projects will provide the underpinning for neighborhood revitalization in the future. In addition, the Olympic designation helped provide momentum for former President Jimmy Carter's Atlanta Project to aid inner-city neighborhoods.
Feelings are mixed, but even in the frayed neighborhoods near the Olympic sites, people tend to be more supportive than not of the coming extravaganza.
"You know, even when Christ was here, not everybody liked him either," said the Rev. John H. Pullin, who lives in the Peoplestown neighborhood near the stadium.
Indeed, the city's Olympic-related development, once derided as a bust, is finally coming together. But the question asked here is how much will get done in the time remaining.
"The date on the tip of everyone's tongue is July 1996, but the real date is January 1995, because if you haven't begun by 1995, you cannot possibly meet a July 1996 deadline," said Clara Axam, president of the Corporation for Olympic Development, which coordinates Olympics building projects. "There's a real sense of urgency for getting things tied down, started and completed."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As the pieces come together for the 1996 Summer Olympic Games in Atlanta, it remains unclear if the games will produce the revitalization of the city that many had envisioned. Construction in progress on the Olympic Stadium, which will eventually become the home of the Atlanta Braves baseball team; "We've divided the pie, we've made virtually all the deals," says Billy Payne, the president of the Atlanta Olympic committee. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
 
Map shows sites of 1996 Summer Olympic facilities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA OLYMPIC COMMITTEE MOUNT OLYMPUS WATERS (54%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA OLYMPIC COMMITTEE ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA (GA); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS) SUMMER OLYMPICS (96%); OLYMPICS (95%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); BASEBALL (78%); FUNDRAISING (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; PAYNE, BILLY

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



226 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: 4 Are Indicted in Scheme Using Tribe to Obtain U.S. Equipment

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SISSETON, S.D., Oct. 8

 BODY:
To Russell Hawkins, the end of the Persian Gulf war in 1991 was the beginning of a bonanza.
When the war ended, the Government had a large amount of heavy equipment it no longer needed. Mr. Hawkins, who had been the chairman of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe for nearly a decade, learned that he could use the tribe's name to get much of the equipment free. 
 In the next two years, prosecutors say, people connected to Mr. Hawkins received $63 million in Government equipment, including earth movers, all in the name of helping the unemployed among the 9,200-member tribe.
But now four men and one company have been indicted in the transactions, and a Federal investigation is continuing. Records show the lion's share of proceeds went to Mr. Hawkins's non-Indian business associates. The tribe never saw millions of dollars' worth of gear ordered in its name. And it sold other equipment worth millions for a small fraction of its worth.
All the while, the Bureau of Indian Affairs watched and did nothing until this February, records show. Although it is the agency's job to make sure that Indian tribes run their affairs legally, its officials either ignored the equipment sales or actively participated, records show.
"What they did by turning a blind eye to it was that they sanctioned it," said Andrew Laverdure, a top agency administrator in Sisseton at the time. "They were aware because we told them about it."
The chain of events being investigated began in 1990, when Mr. Hawkins hired Roger Raether to obtain surplus food and clothing for tribal members. When Mr. Raether discovered that the tribe had no money to pay for shipping the material to the Lake Traverse Reservation, Mr. Hawkins suggested obtaining and reselling Government equipment to raise money, court records show Mr. Raether said.
Thus Dakota Machinery Exchange was born.
Two non-Indians, Francis Oseby and Donald Jerke, both of Sioux Falls, S.D., and a tribe member, Warren Barse, formed the company in April 1991, on the same day the tribe's lawyer wrote to Mr. Hawkins saying the plans were legal.
The plan was for Mr. Raether and Mr. Oseby to look for surplus equipment and the tribe to obtain it. The company was then expected to buy it from the tribe, paying pennies on the dollar for equipment worth millions.
For example, the company paid the tribe just $500 for a semi-tractor worth more than $68,000. The truck was among $10 million in Government equipment seized from the company in a raid earlier this year.
In the summer of 1993, the last of several Federal investigations of the scheme began bearing fruit when the Seminole Tribe of Florida began to try similar equipment deals and Mr. Raether obtained a 300-ton crane for them from a naval yard in San Diego. Mr. Hawkins signed documents for the Seminoles selling the crane to Dakota Machinery Exchange for $34,000, and Mr. Jerke began trying to sell it for $450,000.
The Federal Government's property management agency, the General Services Administration, became suspicious, and after an investigation Mr. Raether and Mr. Jerke were charged with conspiracy and with lying to the agency about the crane, which it recovered before it left California. Mr. Oseby was charged with conspiracy and with bribery and the company was indicted on charges of receiving illegally converted tribal property. A Bureau of Indian Affairs official, Charles Hacker, was charged with bribe-taking.
All have pleaded innocent. They are to go on trial in March. Mr. Hawkins has not been charged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SISSETON-WAHPETON SIOUX BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (55%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SISSETON-WAHPETON SIOUX BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (55%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PERSIAN GULF WAR; SURPLUS PROPERTY AND PRODUCTS; SIOUX INDIANS; MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT DESERT STORM (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); NAVIES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); 

PERSON: HAWKINS, RUSSELL RUSSELL HAWKINS (95%); ROGER RAETHER (91%); FRANCIS OSEBY (65%); DONALD JERKE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



227 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve Chief Warns Bankers on Risky Loan Practices

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
With banks suddenly flush with extra capital, Federal regulators warned yesterday that the days of easy money and risky loans may be returning, just a few short years after excessive real-estate lending brought the banking system to its knees.
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, gave a stern lecture on prudent lending yesterday to members of the American Bankers Association, who had gathered for their annual convention in New York. 
 "Competition among banks and their nonbank counterparts has never been greater," Mr. Greenspan said. "We have been seeing for some months now that the result of that competition in the form of easing of the price and nonprice terms for credit for business loans.'
He said it remained an "open question" whether the current loan standards were adequate. "There are enough questions to be raised about industry loan practices to give a central banker and supervisor pause," he said.
Eugene A. Ludwig, the Comptroller of the Currency, echoed Mr. Greenspan's concern in his speech to the convention at the New York Hilton. "We found signs that some banks have eased their underwriting standards over the last several quarters."
In a tone measured to warn bankers without raising alarm, Mr. Ludwig called the situation "a yellow caution light signaling all of us to remain alert to avoid a repeat of mistakes made in the recent past.
The banking industry traditionally oscillates between periods of lax lending standards and periods of contraction as many of the earlier loans turn bad.
Many bankers and industry experts have been warning in recent months that the sloppy lending practices of the past are coming back faster than expected. In particular, bankers have worried that key conditions, like how much collateral is required of business borrowers, have been relaxed too far.
Mr. Greenspan, in fact, alluded to "anecdotal evidence that credit standards have weakened," but he noted that "these banker anecdotes, of course, are always referring to the competitor down the street."
Mr. Greenspan also strongly criticized the way that banks were setting interest rates on business loans.
"The highest-quality borrowers are being charged loan rates that are higher than actual loss experience indicates," he said. "Meanwhile the riskiest borrowers are not being charged sufficiently high rates to cover their significantly higher risk of default."
He said that most banks currently had a single interest rate for each type and length of business loan.
Mr. Greenspan described dire consequences if banks did not start taking risk into account in loan pricing. Their competitors will steal the banks' highest-quality customers, he said, leaving them with only the riskiest loans. Both finance companies and investment banks actively pursue midsize business customers.
For the future, Mr. Greenspan called for a radical restructuring of the way money for business loans is raised. Now, of course, most banks use their own deposits to finance loans.
Mr. Greenspan called for banks to take groups of loans they have made and to sell them to investors as securities, much as they do now for home mortgages. This would allow banks to protect themselves from the potential default of borrowers while still allowing them to profit from fees earned for making and processing the loans. "The overall effect would be to reduce bank risk," Mr. Greenspan said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (72%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



228 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 8; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: NOTEBOOK;
If the Owners Impose the 'Imps,' Are They Facing an Implosion?

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
So baseball won't fill October with playoff and World Series games. But it will fill the legal calendar with more cases than a legal groupie can keep up with. The members of the Montreal Expos won't receive post-season shares, but the lawyers from the owners' law firm, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, will share in whatever wealth baseball has left.
Having hung together through nearly two months of a players strike, the club owners face a legal wilderness of decisions that history says they will mess up: 
 *Do they impose their 45-day freeze on player transactions after the union refuses to go along with it?
*If they impose the freeze, do they unilaterally suspend the provision in the expired basic agreement that provides for triple damages if clubs are caught colluding again?
*Do they declare an impasse in their negotiations for a new labor agreement with the players?
*If they declare an impasse, do they implement their coveted salary cap?
*If they want to declare an impasse and implement their coveted salary cap, do they first make another proposal, changing the economics to conform to the revenues from the strike-shattered season?
*Do they appeal to the United States Supreme Court last week's decision of the Florida State Supreme Court striking down nearly all of baseball's antitrust exemption?
Having survived, at least for this session, the scariest Congressional challenge yet to their exemption, the owners have to decide whether or not to risk losing it all before a high court. They may be on safer ground letting the state decision stand.
The other legal headaches stem from the owners' inability to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement with the players. If they engage in any of the imps -- impose, impasse, implement -- they will find themselves defending their acts against a union challenge before the National Labor Relations Board.
If they suspend the anticollusion provision and are found to have done so improperly, they could wind up bankrupt. The Basic Agreement prohibits clubs from acting in concert, and if the owners decide as a group that they're not going to peruse free agents until they want to, they could be found guilty of collusion.
A high-ranking executive of one club said the clubs have been told they face no exposure or threat of economic damage from impasse, implementation or imposition because the basic agreement has expired and players are on strike.
"We wonder if that's accurate," the wary executive said. "Having been through bad legal advice, we wonder."
Recent baseball history is filled with bad legal advice. The owners' lawyers, one specifically, told them not to worry about Peter Seitz's 1975 arbitration ruling that created free agency. It would be overturned in court, they were assured. It wasn't.
The owners guilty of collusion against free agents after the 1985 season? The lawyers laughed at the suggestion. Two additional cases and $280 million in damages later, the owners weren't laughing.
"I wish they would implement this," said a lawyer who represents players, referring to the suspension of the anticollusion provision. "They would hoist themselves on their own petard."
Another lawyer, a person not in baseball but one who follows its inner workings carefully, suggested the owners never think through their actions and the ramifications of their actions.
"They haven't war-gamed it," the lawyer said. "What do you do when you get the troops to a certain point?"
In this case, after the owners declare impasse, implement and impose, they may implode.

 
 
When Does Free Agency Start?
 Eligible players can begin filing for free agency Saturday. Or can they?
Because there is no World Series, the free-agency filing period should run Oct. 15 to Oct. 29. But the clubs want to delay that period until Nov. 16 to Nov. 30.
The Players Association may protest the change and advise players to wait for the later period, but just in case players file in October, the clubs want to be safe from collusion charges. That's why they want to suspend the triple-damage anticollusion provision.
Among the potential victims of any new collusion -- players who are eligible for free agency -- are Paul O'Neill of the Yankees, John Franco and Dwight Gooden of the Mets, Bo Jackson of California, Darren Jackson of the Chicago White Sox, Danny Jackson of Philadelphia, Dave Winfield of Cleveland, Kirk Gibson and Mickey Tettleton of Detroit, Jay Buhner of Seattle, Kevin Brown of Texas, Jeff Blauser of Atlanta, Mark Grace of the Chicago Cubs, Kevin Mitchell of Cincinnati, Brett Butler and Orel Hershiser of Los Angeles, Larry Walker of Montreal, John Kruk and Fernando Valenzuela of Philadelphia, Andy Van Slyke of Pittsburgh, Gregg Jefferies and Bob Tewksbury of St. Louis and Darryl Strawberry and Bill Swift of San Francisco.

 
 
The Difference a Day Makes
 The abbreviated season will be remembered, among other things, as the season Tony Gwynn will never know if he would have batted .400. Brother Chris, though, will remember it as the season he could have become a free agent if only the players had walked out Aug. 13 instead of the day before.
The Los Angeles Dodgers reserve outfielder has five years and 171 days of major league service, one day short of the six years needed for free agency. Fourteen other players could have reached six years if the season had been played to completion. Among the others are Jim Abbott and Randy Velarde of the Yankees, Jack McDowell of the White Sox, Kenny Rogers of Texas, Erik Hanson of Cincinnati and Marvin Freeman of Colorado.
In all previous strikes, players gained service credit in the final settlements. If this strike has a final settlement, those players could gain a delayed free agency.

 
 
Hard to Find a Job
 Remember Steve Ontiveros?
Because their clubs want to remove them from their 40-man rosters by outrighting them to the minor leagues, a sizable group of name players will become free agents this week after exercising their rights and refusing the assignments. The list includes Rob Dibble, Rich (Goose) Gossage, Steve Farr, Roger McDowell, Jim Gott, Tom Browning, Bud Black, Tony Fernandez, Chris Sabo and Willie McGee.
The reason the players should remember Steve Ontiveros is he became a free agent that way a year ago, leaving the Seattle Mariners but not finding a job until Oakland signed him on the last day of last January. Now the 33-year-old journeyman pitcher is the earned run average champion of the American League, finishing the aborted season at 2.65 after pitching only 1 1/3 innings over the 114 innings he needed to qualify for the official standings. He also is eligible to be a free agent.
 
Awards or Bonuses?
 The decision to give post-season awards this year can be debated, but perhaps the best indication that the Baseball Writers Association made the right decision is that some club officials don't think the awards should be given. John Schuerholz, for one, has said it's "blasphemous" to talk about individual honors.
Schuerholz, the general manager of the Atlanta Braves, said last week that because no teams were named champions, individual players shouldn't be honored. But it was the decision of major league baseball not to designate division leaders as champions, and it is the baseball writers' decision to give its annual awards. They are different organizations with different responsibilities.
Not to doubt the sincerity of Schuerholz's view, but he does have a vested interest in one award. When -- not if -- Greg Maddux wins the National League Cy Young award for the third consecutive year, the Braves will have to pay him $750,000 in bonuses -- $250,000 for winning the award and $500,000 for winning it a second time during the life of his five-year contract.
That economic issue aside, Schuerholz said no post-season awards should be given because the season was devastated. But the season was terrific while it lasted; no one can deny that. It featured some outstanding individual performances, and it is some of those performances the baseball writers' awards will recognize.
If Frank Thomas is named the American League's most valuable player, he will earn a $100,000 bonus. The National League award would bring Jeff Bagwell $50,000. Jimmy Key would get $150,000 for being named the A.L. Cy Young winner.
The clubs have only themselves to blame for the extra expense. A year ago, the baseball writers, concerned about the appearance of a possible conflict of interest, asked the clubs to stop basing bonuses on their awards. No one replied to the letters sent to the acting commissioner, the league presidents and the clubs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The clubs want to delay the period to file for free agency. Players like the Mariners' Jay Buhner are eligible. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (73%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN LEWIS & BOCKIUS LLP (91%); MONTREAL EXPOS (84%); MONTREAL EXPOS (84%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (55%); FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONTREAL EXPOS (84%); MONTREAL EXPOS (84%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (55%); FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); APPEALS (87%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); STRIKES (74%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); VERDICTS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



229 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 66 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
The Market Watch column on Sept. 25, about the slumping United States bond market, imprecisely summarized the views of Alan S. Blinder on German interest rate policy. Mr. Blinder, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, has generally criticized European Governments for allowing unemployment to remain high; he has not specifically criticized Germany for maintaining high interest rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CORRECTION STORIES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (84%); 

PERSON: ALAN S BLINDER (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



230 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Oct. 2-8: Threat to Kuwait;
Iraq Moves Its Troops Toward the Brink Again; Clinton Responds Quickly

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

 BODY:
More than three years after the United States and its allies tried to deliver a knockout blow to Iraq, Saddam Hussein's armored legions re-emerged last week as a threat to Kuwait.
 The crisis developed when Iraq sent forces toward Kuwait's border, including units from an elite Republican Guard division that escaped destruction during the Persian Gulf war. Madeleine K. Albright, the United States delegate to the United Nations, told the Security Council that if the buildup continued, Iraq might soon have some 60,000 troops and 1,000 tanks poised to attack Kuwait.
 
 The largest question concerned Saddam Hussein's intentions. As he did when Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990,, he seems to think military force (or at least the threat of it) is the way to achieve economic and political goals (or at least concessions). In this case, Iraq seems to be saying it will cause trouble unless s the Security Council lifts the economic sanctions under which Iraq has staggered since it was driven out of Kuwait in 1991.
 American officials said they thought Iraq was bluffing. But they were taking no chances. The Clinton Administration dispatched to the area an aircraft carrier, two ships with cruise missiles, 2,000 Marines, and ships carrying tanks and enough war materiel for 15,000 troops. MICHAEL R. GORDON

GRAPHIC: Photo: Destroyed Iraqi tank, 1991 (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KUWAIT (96%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (73%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; UNITED STATES (96%); KUWAIT (96%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DESERT STORM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



231 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Gridlock's Political Price

 BODY:
Polls and pundits alike predict a mid-term Democratic defeat so catastrophic that the Republicans could end up controlling not only the Senate but also (for the first time since 1954) the House of Representatives. The polls are preliminary and the pundits fallible, and when we all wake up on Nov. 9 the Democrats, though shaken, may still have slim majorities. But if things do turn out badly, it will be partly because Bill Clinton and the Democrats have failed to persuade the American people that they can govern as a party.
This failure of governance is rarely mentioned in the litany of causes for the Democrats' discontent. The most common suspects are: a nagging, nationwide sense of economic discomfort. The elusive but present ghost known as the "character issue," raised anew by Whitewater. Doubts about the President's managerial skills and his bumbling White House staff. A generally sour national mood and the growing rebellion against incumbency, more damaging to Democrats simply because there are more of them than there are Republicans. 
 But the fact that these assembled Democrats could not manufacture a satisfying product in Mr. Clinton's first two years may be more important than the other reasons combined.
Mr. Clinton, it should be recalled, rode to the White House on the premise that a Democratic President and Congress could get things done. There were flaws in this premise. The Democrats themselves have never been models of unity. Nor could Mr. Clinton claim a numerical mandate; nearly 60 percent of the electorate voted for somebody else. Nevertheless, Americans were invited to expect the end of gridlock. That was Mr. Clinton's single most powerful argument against the gathering ineptitude of the Bush Administration and the seductive togetherness offered by Ross Perot.
The President and his party did not deliver. Again, there are any number of explanations, all plausible, none satisfactory. First, he expended huge amounts of his political capital on a few matters of great moment: successes like the budget agreement and the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993, failures like health care reform in 1994. That made orphans of lots of other worthy legislative enterprises. Second, though an instinctive compromiser, he did a surprisingly poor job of involving the opposition in his legislative program, not least health care.
Third, the Republicans, never really invited to the clambake, threw sand everywhere. Make no mistake: the Republicans cannot possibly run as the party of creative and helpful suggestions on the basis of Representative Newt Gingrich's jerry-built "contract" with the voters, which is little more than the voodoo economics of the Reagan 80's. The Republicans must shoulder the additional burden imposed upon them by Mr. Gingrich and Senator Bob Dole, whose ugly behavior in the waning days of Congress helped kill campaign finance and lobbying reform.
But Republicans cannot be held responsible for whatever harm the Democrats suffer in November because their participation was never part of the original promise. If the voters are sour, and they are, it has more to do with Mr. Clinton's failure to consolidate the majority they handed him and the failure of the party to unify itself.
Democrats helped defeat his health care initiative. A Democrat, Ernest Hollings of South Carolina, at one point in his career an offbeat candidate for the Presidency, opposed the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The churlish behavior of Tom Foley, the House leader, did much to cancel Mr. Clinton's pledge to end Washington's culture of influence-peddling. Western Democrats joined with regional Republicans to sabotage many of Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt's most promising environmental initiatives. The final proof of the Democrats' own gridlock-feeding disunity was their inability to rally all their troops for the two critical cloture votes on the lobbying bill.
In the end, it was difficult for a self-professed "New Democrat" to deliver when so many old Democrats stood in his way. This must surely have been a painful surprise for a hopeful fellow like Bill Clinton. But his dilemma is no worse than the voters', who have before them equally unappetizing bunches of Foley Democrats and Gingrich Republicans. This is a gloomy prospect, promising not just gridlock but rising public frustration at the majority party's inability to govern even when it has the keys to the Capitol and the White House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (66%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



232 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: The Smoking Bill Struggle

 BODY:
Last March City Council Speaker Peter Vallone introduced a bill that, by putting sweeping new restrictions on smoking in public places, would go a long way toward insuring fresher, cleaner air for New Yorkers. But as the Smoke-Free Air Act plods toward enactment -- presumably by the end of the year -- the controversy surrounding it gets more contentious by the minute.
The original version of the bill required employers of all sizes to restrict smoking to enclosed, specially ventilated rooms, with a limit of one room to each floor of a building. Smoking was to be restricted to separate rooms in pool halls and separate sections of outdoor cafes, and banned in Shea and Yankee Stadiums except in separately ventilated rooms. Nightclubs and bars not attached to public areas in restaurants or hotels were exempted, as were restaurants seating fewer than 50 people. That last exemption was removed, however, after the vast majority of speakers at the Council Health Committee's first public hearing on the bill, in June, clamored for even stronger legislation. 
 Then the tobacco industry started doing what it does so well: heavy leaning. A never-ending stream of faxes, letters, phone calls, meeting requests to City Council members and full-page newspaper advertisements resulted in a bill that is, if not quite a shadow of its former self, getting perilously close to becoming one. The current version allows smoking in private offices, even those without separate ventilation, an unfortunate provision that would allow circulation of smoky air to other parts of the workplace. This version also permits smoking in the concourse areas of stadiums and offers restaurants a loophole by allowing smoking in the bar area.
On Sept. 25, the day before the bill's second public hearing, came a really big show of muscle: Philip Morris's threat (ingenuously described as "an option we would consider") to move its headquarters out of New York if the bill passed as it stood. After that, came the arm-twisting.
Philip Morris has, to its considerable credit, been a lavish and unintrusive supporter of America's cultural institutions for nearly 40 years. Last week, however, it demanded quid pro quo by asking city art groups it had aided to put in a good word for it with Peter Vallone. Many did, saying that while they were taking no position on the bill they wanted to go on record about Philip Morris's generosity to the city -- and, however reluctantly, adding their weight to the tobacco company's.
Between now and a third hearing and a third version of the bill -- probably next month -- the arm-twisting will doubtless continue. Mr. Vallone needs and deserves public support to maintain a strong bill whose exceptions do not go beyond minor loopholes now being discussed. Should the outcome be a bill that puts the tobacco industry's economic clout ahead of New Yorkers' health, then that industry, and Philip Morris in particular, can congratulate itself on its power to undermine public health policy for millions of Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE AND TEA MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION SMOKING (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); RESTAURANTS (91%); SMOKING BANS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); TOBACCO MFG (87%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (62%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (51%); 

PERSON: VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) PETER VALLONE (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



233 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS CALLS IT QUITS: FINAL HOURS;
Rancor Leaves Its Mark on 103d Congress

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
The 103d Congress quit for the elections today, leaving behind a bitterly disputed record of legislation passed, defeated and put off.
As it closed its books, the Senate overcame the 28th Republican filibuster in two years and voted to protect millions of acres of California desert. Some senators who had already returned to their states to campaign had to fly back to the capital to vote, and Senator Carol Moseley-Braun of Illinois arrived at the Capitol by cab to vote on the bill after escaping from a garage that had a broken electronic door opener. [Page 28.] 
 That frantic footnote sent President Clinton the first significant environmental bill of this Congress. Mr. Clinton and Congressional Democrats looked back over 21 months that began with high hopes that a new President and more than 100 new members could solve dozens of problems they said had been ignored in 12 Republican years. But they were dogged by defeats on health care, campaign finance and long frustrating delays on many issues.
But in writing their epitaph for the 103d Congress, Democrats have suddenly rediscovered their voice, after standing by almost mutely for months as Republicans ran roughshod over the Administration's bills. [Page 26.]
In the session's final day, Democrats found several points of pride, arguing that accomplishments in trade, education, crime and deficit reduction had earned this Congress a respected place in history.
In listing accomplishments, Republicans agreed with Democrats only on trade -- an issue both sides managed to leave unfinished until Congress returns after the elections to vote on the global trade agreement. Last year's vote on the North American Free Trade Agreement was indeed one of only a handful of truly bipartisan lawmaking efforts, repeatedly praised by Republican leaders like Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, and Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the minority whip, as the kind of Democratic leadership they wanted to encourage.
Today Mr. Dole ridiculed what he called "photo-op bipartisanship," which he said took place instead of real consultation.
Democrats were also keenly aware of the session's failures. Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the departing majority leader, told the Senate today of his unhappiness with the failure of health care and campaign finance legislation. "The disappointments of recent months are real," he said, but "we made a significant difference in the economic direction for the better -- more jobs, lower inflation, declining deficits -- than the country has seen for a dozen years."
Representative Pat Williams, a Montana Democrat who managed one of the many health insurance bills, described the Congress this way:"Fast start, slow finish, too much rancor."
On education, Democrats always had significant Republican help, especially in the Senate. But the Republican Party does not praise measures like shifting aid for poor children away from rich suburbs, easing the loan terms of college students and establishing national educational goals, perhaps because they were handled by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the most prominent incumbent they hope to defeat.
Where Democrats claimed this summer's $30 billion crime bill as an accomplishment, providing more money for police, prisons and crime prevention, Republicans scoffed, calling it too soft. Mr. Dole said the legislation was filled with pork-barrel projects, calling it "big pig."
The deficit issue remains perhaps the sharpest division of all. Fourteen months after it passed without a single Republican vote, Democrats say it has spurred economic growth and confidence; Republicans continue to blast it as no more than a tax increase.
Generally, Republicans saw Congressional success only where the Democrats saw failure, most of all on national health insurance.
On that issue and many others, the Republicans were remarkably unified, while the Democrats, with solid-looking majorities, were really too shaky to let them push more than one measure at a time.
That made the variety of bills passed in 1993 a legislative tour de force. But it also made 1994, with its yearlong focus on health care, seem even more a failure, with attention significantly diverted from that defeat and others only by passage of the crime bill.
Indeed, the Democrats' most famous victory, the August 1993 vote to pass the budget measure that reduced the deficit by raising taxes and cutting spending, sowed the seeds of their most grievous defeat. The need to concentrate on the budget slowed health care, let its opponents define the issue and left the 1994 record flat.
Whatever historians may say, there was no doubt that this Congress disappointed the voters.
In January 1993, a New York Times/CBS News Poll showed that most Americans expected the Government to work better now that one party controlled the White House and Congress and about half believed that more than 100 new members would help Congress improve. By last month, only 19 percent said Congress had accomplished more than it does in a typical two-year period.
Republicans counted on that disappointment to lead voters to punish the Democrats next month. When they voted to kill measures they had once supported, like greater regulation of lobbyists, Democrats charged them with no motive beyond what Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader, called "dissent for the sake of legislative destruction."
But some Republicans, like Senator John McCain of Arizona, warned that the public mood imperiled incumbents, regardless of party, and that trying to stall measures like the bill that would have imposed some limits onlobbyists was bad policy and bad politics.
Republicans were careful to say they opposed the lobbying bill because it might hurt grass-roots lobbyists, not the Gucci-shod, K Street professionals who stood outside the Senate chamber and cheered Thursday's vote to prolong the filibuster.
But on other issues, Republicans have veered between claiming credit for obstruction and denying they were dragging their feet. As Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon said about killing health care legislation, "We've got to make sure our fingerprints are not on it."
But more often they take credit. Senator Phil Gramm of Texas said proudly Friday that this Congress would "be remembered most as the Congress that, at the critical moment, when we were going down the wrong road at 100 miles an hour headed toward socialized medicine, we had a few members who were willing to stand up and say 'no.' "
Today Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, the deputy Republican leader, complained of attacks on his party's "principled opposition." In a national radio speech, Mr. Simpson said, "The President and some in the media have tried to characterize my party as a bunch of Cro-Magnons standing in the mouth of a musty cave with our clubs, using arcane legislative procedures to disrupt the greatest and loftiest ideas for an ever expanding Federal role in our daily lives."
And blocking legislation has not been the exclusive hobby of Republicans. Votes on issues like term limits and giving the President line-item veto authority have been blocked by Democrats.
Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the Senate's senior Democrat, cheerfully takes credit for leading the fight against a constitutional amendment to require a balanced Federal budget. "I consider the Senate's defeat of the balanced budget amendment earlier this year to be one of the Senate's finest moments," he said.
With disdain equal to Mr. Gramm's for the President's health care plan, Mr. Byrd said, "There is no greater threat to our system of checks and balances and separation of powers than that amendment."
But in few areas was obstructionism more of a success than in dealing with Congress's ways of doing its own business. Sometimes the obstructionism was along party lines, as when House Republicans sought rule changes to give them more influence and Democrats scorned them.
Sometimes, as with campaign finance, it combined partisanship with the differences between the two Houses and the general reluctance of incumbents to see any flaws in the system that had proven its worth by electing them.
Sometimes Democrats waited so long to settle their own differences, as on campaign finance and lobbying legislation, that Republicans found it easy to force a pre-adjournment deadlock.
But reform was the one set of issues that brought the 110 freshmen of both parties together in the House. They accomplished very little, though the House voted on Friday to make itself subject, as a matter of its rules, to the Federal law on employment discrimination, workplace safety and similar matters. An effort to do more, by legislation, died in the Senate.
Even so, the House resolution did less than some freshmen expected. Representative Karan English, Democrat of Arizona, complained that just before the vote, the resolution had somehow mysteriously lost a provision barring members from using frequent flier mileage earned on official trips for personal vacations.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 1994, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A headline yesterday in some copies about passage of the California Desert Protection Act misstated the margin of the Senate vote that ended a filibuster of the bill. The motion to end debate was backed by 68 Senators, eight more than needed, not one.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Congress went home for the November elections yesterday. Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, walked down the Capitol steps. (Stephen R. Brown for The New York Times) (pg. 1)
 
Chart: "HIGHLIGHTS: The 103d Congress: What Was Accomplished, and What Wasn't"
 
WHAT CONGRESS DID
 
1993
 
Family and Medical Leave -- Congress gave President Clinton his first legislative victory when it passed the family leave bill to guarantee workers up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for medical emergencies and births.
 
Voter Registration -- After a Republican filibuster was broken in the Senate, Congress passed a bill directing states to provide voter registration forms in motor vehicle offices, military recruiting stations and welfare offices.
 
Budget Deficit -- By the narrowest of margins, Congress approved the President's plan to reduce the budget deficit by $496 billion and raise individual and corporate income taxes, gasoline taxes and Medicare and Social Security taxes by about $220 billion over five years.
 
Nafta -- Legislation was approved that put the North American Free Trade Agreement into effect staring Jan. 1, 1994, gradually abolishing nearly all trade barriers between the United States, Mexico and Canada.
 
National Service -- Congress passed a law intended to encourage volunteerism. It provides for a living allowance and up to $10,000 in education grants to people who do community service before, during or after college or trade school.
 
Civil Servants -- Legislation was approved that lifted many restrictions on political activity by Federal employees.
 
Supercollider -- Despite the President's support for the program, Congress voted to scrap the $11 billion Superconducting Supercollider project.
 
Space Station -- After a close call in the House, Congress decided to continue financing a scaled-down version of the space station project.
 
Gun Control -- Congress passed a bill providing a five-day waiting period for the purchase of handguns.
 
Abortion -- Congress again approved an amendment restricting Federal payments for abortions, although in a slightly modified form. It allows the use of Federal money for abortions in cases of rape and incest as well as when the life of the woman is in danger.
 
Student Loans -- Congress approved a new loan program that enables students to borrow directly from the Government, instead of from banks, and gives them five repayment options.
 
1994
 
Abortion Clinic Access -- Congress passed a law making it a crime to interfere "by force or threat of force or by physical obstruction" with anyone who is seeking or performing an abortion or other reproductive health services.
 
Education -- Congress acted on several fronts. It passed legislation aimed at raising education achievement levels by establishing national education goals for all students and schools. It approved money for a program focusing on job skills that helps students who are not going to college make a smooth transition from high school to the workplace. It reauthorized the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, providing money to help students in impoverished districts, to train teachers and to reduce school violence.
 
Crime -- After a tortuous legislative process, Congress passed a $30.2 billion anti-crime package providing for 100,000 new police officers, expanding the death penalty to cover more than 50 Federal crimes, banning the sale and possession of 19 types of assault weapons and authorizing $6.9 billion for prevention programs.
 
Independent Counsel -- Congress reinstated the independent counsel law, which allows a special prosecutor from outside the Government to be appointed by a three-judge panel of Federal judges to investigate accusations of crimes by high Government officials.
 
Banking -- Congress approved a bill that would eliminate the remaining barriers to interstate banking in a dozen states and a requirement that banks operate separate subsidiaries in each state.
 
California Desert Protection -- Congress passed a compromise bill to protect millions of acres of desert in California, creating the largest wilderness area outside Alaska.
 
WHAT CONGRESS DIDN'T DO
 
Health Care Reform -- After President Clinton promised to fight for universal health insurance coverage, Congress spent a year debating his plans and less complicated alternatives. Republicans and the health insurance industry were intense in their opposition, while Democrats found it hard to settle differences among themselves, and the effort was abandoned last month.
 
Superfund -- Congress gave up trying to rewrite the Superfund law, which provides for cleaning up toxic waste dumps.
 
Campaign Finance -- An effort to overhaul the way election campaigns for Congress are financed failed, a victim of Republican opposition to public financing and Democratic differences over how to deal with political action committees.
 
Clean Water Act -- The nation's most important water quality law has been up for review since 1992, but Congress has not acted on it. The law will not be re-examined until next year.
 
Public-Land Mining -- In the face of resistance by the mining industry, Congress dropped efforts to pass a measure that for the first time would have imposed fees for mining hard-rock minerals like gold and copper on Federal land.
 
Lobbying Reform -- Congress failed to pass a bill that would have tightened financial disclosure requirements for lobbyists and prohibited lobbyists from providing gifts, meals, entertainment or travel to members of Congress and their staffs.
 
Telecommunications -- An effort to rewrite the nation's telecommunications laws and permit open competition between telephone and cable television companies collapsed amid feuding between rival industry groups.
 
Safe Drinking Water -- A bill that would have revised the Federal standards for purity of municipal water supplies died when negotiators from the House and Senate failed to reach a compromise.
 
Economic Stimulus -- Using a filibuster, Senate Republicans defeated the President's plan to stimulate the economy.
 
Grazing Fees -- Unable to break a filibuster by Western senators, Congress abandoned efforts to pass legislation to increase grazing fees and make other changes involving Federal range land, leaving it to the Administration to make the changes by regulation.
 
Balanced Budget Amendment -- The Senate rejected a constitutional amendment to require a balanced Federal budget, killing the proposal for this year.
 
Strikes -- Senate Republicans, using the threat of a filibuster, blocked passage of a bill that would have made it illegal for employers to hire permanent replacements for workers striking over wages and benefits.
 
WHAT CONGRESS PUT OFF
 
GATT -- The trade bill, or General Agreement on Trades and Tariffs, became entangled in election-year politics. Congress decided to postpone until after the elections a vote on the legislation, which would allow the United States to participate in a new worldwide trade agreement that would reduce tariffs over 10 years. (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; FILIBUSTERS AND DEBATE CURBS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT FILIBUSTER (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; GRAHAM, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



234 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1871 words

HEADLINE: Managed Care Changing Practice of Psychotherapy

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER 

 BODY:
Managed-care companies have several names for what's ailing people who spend years in psychotherapy that the companies consider unproductive: They call it the New Yorker syndrome or the Woody Allen syndrome. And they intend to eradicate it.
But who determines whether psychiatric treatment is productive or merely high-cost self-improvement? This question has led to pitched battles between the companies and psychotherapists, particularly in the New York region, where more than 20 percent of the nation's therapists work. The battle is seen as a testing ground for the efforts of managed-care companies to scrutinize more closely medical spending in New York, where managed care has been slow to take hold. 
 Many therapists say managed-care companies, intent on cutting costs, are undermining the quality of care by calling the shots on treatment without ever seeing a patient. These companies, they say, favor doctors who charge the lowest fees, driving some practitioners from the profession.
"This industry is destroying the field," said Dr. Karen Shore, a psychologist and co-chairwoman of the Coalition of Mental Health Professionals and Consumers, a Long Island-based national group that opposes managed care for mental health. "Nobody wants their kid to be a psychologist anymore."
Managed-care companies and their advocates, who include some psychiatrists, counter that therapists are chiefly unhappy about the loss of income. Insurance plans have never been very generous with mental health care, but managed care is even more parsimonious.
In the New York area, typical therapy fees range from $150 to $300 an hour for a psychiatrist and from $40 to $150 an hour for a social worker; managed-care companies generally pay only 55 to 60 percent of that. One doctor said he was getting $80 a visit from managed-care companies but usually charged twice that; another was asked to settle for $40.
Supporters of managed care say many practitioners would rather keep people in talk therapy for years than try drug therapy that has increasingly proven effective. For years, these doctors had authority to continue treatment that shows no signs of working, the companies say.
"There's a lot of resistance against managed care among psychiatrists because they don't want to be part of a system where they have to conform to what the company's rules are," said Dr. Terry Golash, medical director for Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield, who has both supervised managed-care reviewers and been subject to their scrutiny in his private practice. "A lot of doctors don't like to call and ask for permission."
Dr. Ian Shaffer, executive vice president and chief medical officer of Value Behavioral Health, the country's largest managed-care company, argued that patients can suffer when their doctors' decisions go unchallenged.
But therapists say patients suffer when their professional judgements are challenged by sometimes unqualified employees of managed-care companies who press them for confidential information. Psychiatrists also complain that they are increasingly limited to dispensing pills as therapy is conducted more and more by licensed social workers or psychiatric nurses who charge lower fees. Psychologists say they, too, are being shunned, and many are leaving private practice for diagnostic and consulting work in schools and businesses.
Most managed mental health care companies report that they deny a very small number of requests for treatment. Value Behavioral Health, for example, has an outright denial rate of less than 1 percent. But reviewers and providers commonly negotiate agreements that provide less treatment than the therapists originally requested, Dr. Golash said.
 
Reducing Costs, But Also Incomes
 A more telling measure of how much treatment is being denied -- or provided more efficiently, depending on your point of view -- is the amount of money that managed-care companies save businesses in outlays for mental health care, with the companies typically reporting cost savings of somewhere between 30 and 50 percent.
Those savings translate into tens of thousands of dollars in lost income for New York psychiatrists, whose annual incomes generally range from $80,000 to $200,000 (some make far more), and social workers with master's degrees, who make upward of $50,000. Depending on how many patients they have in managed care, they say their income has been cut by 5 to 25 percent.
New York doctors were among the last holdouts against managed care, which took hold in the area only recently but has made the most dramatic local inroads in the mental health field. Like many private companies, New York City signed its employees up for managed care -- for mental health services only -- several months ago.
Across the country, in areas where managed care has been around longer, therapists said they were losing even more money, as much as 50 percent in California and Florida, forcing some to take early retirement or look for a second career.
But Dr. Shaffer said New York therapists have been particularly vocal about the changes brought on by managed care because of the popularity of psychoanalysis. He said many New York patients were not mentally ill but were in therapy for self-improvement. And health insurance, he said, should not have to pay for that, any more than it should be paying for continuing education.
The emphasis on cutting mental health costs in particular is generally attributed to increases in the money employers spend on the treatment of mental illness and substance abuse -- $22 billion in 1993, up 57 percent in five years.
 
One Way to Test A Growing Industry
 Opponents of managed care, however, insist that psychiatric services are being used as a local testing ground for the managed-care industry. "It's seen as a way of testing the waters, to see how managed care plays" in New York, said Dr. Golash of Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield.
As a result of managed care, psychiatrists say their medical practices have changed drastically because now they primarily treat acutely ill patients.
"By the time they're approved, they're in an emergency situation so you have to work them in and see them immediately," said Dr. Robert Campbell, medical director of Gracie Square Hospital in Manhattan.
Doctors said as much as 25 percent of their day is now spent talking with reviewers about how many sessions and what kind of treatment is warranted. And a few are joining group psychiatric practices because some managed-care companies require that doctors be on 24-hour call.
Several doctors told of troubling excesses by managed-care companies, like patients' being denied benefits because they were well enough to work, or cut off because they became so ill they lost their jobs.
"The reviewer will tell you the patient's been in therapy with you for over a year, so it's chronic care and we don't pay for chronic care," said Dr. Frederick Mendelsohn, who is in private practice in Manhattan.
But others wondered whether some colleagues had begun to exaggerate the menace of managed care as something of a siege mentality has taken hold of their profession.
 
Approach Raises Privacy Concerns
 What seems clear, however, is that the growth of managed mental health care has changed the way many therapists do business.
One therapist said he and others had recently stopped taking notes during sessions because they feared being asked to turn them over to managed-care company reviewers, whom they do not trust to maintain confidentiality. Another said he now routinely warns patients in their first session that he can no longer guarantee confidentiality because of managed care.
A third, Dr. Edward Gordon, a Putnam County psychiatrist, said, "I had one patient who had applied for life insurance and they wrote me for information, and she hadn't mentioned me on the form."
Several therapists said they spent an enormous amount of time trying to stay a step ahead of the reviewers, even tape-recording conversations with them to protect themselves from lawsuits. And skirmishes between practitioners and reviewers often turn personal, they said.
 
Does It Work? What Patients Say
 About a dozen patients referred for interviews by their therapists complained about the difficulty in finding the right doctor among the limited choices offered by some managed-care companies. They worried that managed-care companies could not maintain confidential ity, expressing concern that their most intimate secrets were giving some clerk a good laugh or, worse, were being stored on computer disks that frequently change hands, when managed-care companies are bought and sold. And, they said, the process of proving their need for treatment was often demeaning.
A Manhattan textile designer who was widowed, lost her job and was later diagnosed with bipolar disorder said she was devastated when she found that her therapist had described her on forms for a managed-care company as disheveled, incompetent and belligerent.
"I came back from hell so they can put on a piece of paper that I'm disheveled?" she said, adding that the incident diminished her faith in her doctor at a time when she counted on him for support.
"I told him, 'I thought you were on my side,' and he said, 'I am, but I have to put that down or you won't get the money,' " she said. "But who is going to look at those forms? There's no bigger prejudice in our society than against people having psychiatric trouble. I'm frightened."
On the other hand, most of these same patients said they eventually received the help they needed and, in one case, persuaded a managed-care company to allow them to choose a doctor who was not on the company's list. And they complained as much about their therapists as about managed-care companies.
A Manhattan woman who suffers from chronic depression complained bitterly that after a managed-care company refused to reimburse her for continued treatment with a "world-renowned therapist," she was then denied a second weekly session with her new therapist.
But after two years in treatment, she said, "I stopped in the spring because it was wasting my time."
 
Learning to Work With the System
 Despite therapists' overwhelming opposition to managed mental health care, some acknowledge that they cannot defeat the system, and medical schools have recently begun teaching psychiatrists-in-training how to work with managed-care companies.
But many say they still hope to help overhaul the young managed-care industry and are lobbying on both the state and Federal levels for legislation that would require a licensing process for reviewers and a better appeals mechanism, make managed-care companies subject to state insurance laws and allow any willing provider into their managed-care group.
At the American Psychiatric Association in Washington, a toll-free number for complaints about managed care is logging a significant number of calls from doctors who are irate because they have been denied admission to managed-care groups.
"We have started getting a lot of calls from New York," said Sajini Thomas, the health economist in charge of the number. "Especially about being excluded."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 1994, Monday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about the effect of managed care on psychotherapy described one company in the field incorrectly. The company, Value Behavioral Health, is the largest managed-care company for mental health; it is not the country's largest managed-care company.
 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Karen Shore, Clinical psychologist -- "This industry is destroying the field. Nobody wants their kid to be a psychologist anymore." (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times); Dr. Robert Campbell, Medical director, Gracie Square Hospital -- "By the time they're approved, they're in an emergency situation;" Dr. Terry Golash, Medical director, Empire Blue Cross/ Blue Shield -- "A lot of doctors don't like to call and ask for permission." (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) (pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (62%); NEW YORK (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGISTS; HEALTH INSURANCE; THERAPY AND REHABILITATION; FEES (PROFESSIONAL); PSYCHIATRY AND PSYCHIATRISTS MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (94%); PSYCHOLOGY (92%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); 

PERSON: HENNEBERGER, MELINDA WOODY ALLEN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



235 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2252 words

HEADLINE: Comeback for Adjustable Mortgages

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO 

 BODY:
NEIL KLAR of Armonk, N.Y., had never gambled on interest rates before; he had always taken out fixed-rate 30-year mortgages, the safe, conservative, plain-vanilla loans that have been the financial foundation of the American housing industry for most of the last 50 years.
After studying some numbers crunched by a mortgage broker, however, Mr. Klar recently decided to switch to a mortgage with a rate that adjusts every year --also known as an A.R.M. -- for the new home he is having built in nearby Katonah. 
 "When I looked at where the market was and my current expenses, an A.R.M. made sense," said Mr. Klar, the president of Spot Quotations and Data Inc., better known as SQAD, a company based in Elmsford, N.Y., that supplies information on television and radio advertising costs.
After being wildly popular when interest rates soared in the 80's then becoming less so when rates plunged in the early 90's, A.R.M.'s -- many of them with newfangled terms, conversions to or from fixed rates and links to exotic indices -- are again attracting home buyers.
Though most borrowers still take out fixed-rate loans, the market share for A.R.M.'s, according to the Federal Housing Finance Board, has more than doubled, from 21 percent in February to 43 percent in August, the highest level since June 1989, when it was 47 percent.
"Sixty-five percent of my loans are now A.R.M.'s, and a year ago it was probably 25 percent," said Margaret Scott, president of Mortgage Advisory Services, a mortgage broker in Manhattan.
The steep increase in interest rates since February has been the primary impetus behind the growth. When interest rates rise, fixed-rate mortgages become more costly, and some borrowers may have trouble affording or qualifying for them. A.R.M.'s, which have lower initial rates, currently as low as 4 percent, require smaller monthly payments than fixed-rate mortgages.
Of course, if rates rise, A.R.M. payments can become higher than those for a fixed-rate mortgage. Which type of mortgage costs less over the long term? Depending on interest rates and how long a borrower keeps the loan, A.R.M.'s can become more costly in as little as three years or as many as 10, or never.
"Most of our moderate-income buyers, including young, first-time purchasers, favor adjustable-rate mortgages with low initial rates," said JoAnne Kennedy, co-founder of Hunt Kennedy Inc., a real estate broker in Manhattan. "When young people buy a New York apartment, they do not anticipate staying long-term. A.R.M.'s work best for these people because they reap the savings upfront."
"BIG apartment buyers, typically families, purchase for the long term," she added. "So their preferred mortgages are 15- or 30-year fixed-rate loans."
A.R.M.'s have also attracted attention because their rates have not been rising as much as those of fixed-rates. In the last year, the national average interest rate on a one-year A.R.M. rose 1.56 percentage points, to 5.69 percent as of Sept. 30, compared with 2.28 points, to 8.91 percent, for 30-year fixed-rate loans, according to HSH Associates, a mortgage research company in Butler, N.J.
More important, perhaps, the spread between the lowest A.R.M. introductory rates and the average fixed-rate loan has expanded to an unusually wide 4.5 percentage points. The spread hasn't been that large since October 1987, when it was about 5 percentage points, in part because of price wars among lenders. (Not surprisingly, A.R.M.'s held 60 percent of the mortgage market that month.)
"The spread is significant because it is what gives the customer a reason to look at an adjustable-rate product," said Keith T. Gumbinger, an analyst with HSH Associates. "There has got to be enough of a difference so that you don't lose the savings of an A.R.M. in the first year."
He added that A.R.M.'s were also in vogue because lenders, many of whom have been hurt by the diminishing demand for mortgages, particularly refinancings, are again aggressively marketing A.R.M.'s as a better deal than fixed-rate home loans, even though fixed-rates remain lower than at any time during the 1980's; the low point for fixed-rate loans that decade was 9.09 percent, in March 1987.
Mr. Gumbinger noted that Federal regulators had cautioned lenders about making loans at rates that could lead to substantial losses if rates rose sharply; such a pattern occurred with many banks and thrifts in the 80's. Indeed, the Federal Office of Thrift Supervision, which oversees savings and loan institutions, last spring described the practice of offering unusually low teaser rates as "unsafe and unsound."
"A lot of the growth in A.R.M.'s is because of marketing prowess, not consumer demand," Mr. Gumbinger said.
Lenders, though, say that borrowers are taking out A.R.M.'s because they are more financially sophisticated. In particular, they say, borrowers are seriously weighing how long they intend to stay in their new home -- the average mortgage lasts for only seven years -- and calculating the difference in accumulated interest between an A.R.M. and a fixed-rate loan.
"For a young couple with no kids, seven years is a very long time," Ms. Scott said. "They could get transferred, decide they want to move to the country, improve their income so much they want a better house or apartment, or decide they want kids and need more space. What are the chances that none of those things are going to happen?"
Though much depends on the particulars of individual loans, the future direction of interest rates and whether a mortgage is refinanced, borrowers today who plan to sell their home or refinance in three to five years are likely to fare better with a one-year A.R.M. This is largely because of the low initial rates and the caps on interest-rate increases -- two percentage points a year and six over the life of the loan -- that keep the rate from rising too high or too quickly. (A.R.M.'s generally also have conversion clauses that, for a $250 fee, allow the loan to be converted into a fixed-rate, generally .5 to .625 percentage points above the going rate for fixed-rate mortgages.)
Those who plan to own their home longer can also save on accumulated interest with a one-year A.R.M., but only if rates decline or do not rise substantially. Such has been the case with many borrowers who took out A.R.M.'s in the mid-and late 1980s.
LONG-TERM borrowers can also come out ahead if they get a mortgage with a deeply discounted initial rate. Mr. Klar, for example, is closing on a $450,000 A.R.M. for a five-bedroom colonial on two and a half acres. The first-year rate is 4.25 percent -- substantially less than the average rate on a one-year A.R.M. of 5.71 percent -- and the rate cannot climb more than 2 percentage points a year and no more than 6 over the life of the 30-year loan.
Mr. Klar will pay $18,187 in interest during the first year of the A.R.M. compared with $38,152 for a comparable fixed-rate mortgage at 8.875 percent. His monthly payments during the first year will be $2,121 ($3,000 with local property taxes included.). A comparable fixed-rate loan would cost $3,392 a month, taxes excluded.
"Loans that low may not be available to Joe Six-Pack," Mr. Gumbinger said. "For most people, four or five years is probably the break-even point."
Because his starting rate was so low, Mr. Klar will continue to save on accrued interest until sometime between the ninth and 10th year of the loan, even if his rate rises to the capped maximum, 10.25 percent, by the fourth year. His loan, though, also cost him a high 2.75 points, or $12,375. A point is a fee paid to the lender equal to 1 percent of the mortgage.
"Whether I will be in the home 30 years is questionable," Mr. Klar said.
Though rates on most A.R.M.'s adjust annually, some change monthly, every 90 days or every 180 days. Rates, usually, can rise no more than one percentage point at a time and five or six percentage points over the life of the loan.
Some of these loans, six-month A.R.M.'s generally, may be linked to the London interbank offered rate, known as Libor, which is slightly less volatile than the usual standard for the one-year A.R.M., the one-year Treasury security, or a more comparable gauge, the six-month Treasury bill.
Other mortgages, monthly A.R.M.'s usually, may be linked to the 11th District Federal Home Loan Bank's cost of funds index, or COFI, which is less volatile than a one-year or monthly Treasury bill. Less volatility doesn't mean that the rate won't increase as much -- just not as quickly.
"You are less likely to get a spike in rates," Mr. Gumbinger said.
Brian Perkis, a Manhattan bank auditor, recently took out a $68,000 monthly A.R.M. tied to COFI for a one-bedroom co-op apartment he bought on Sutton Place for $85,000. His initial rate for the first three-month introductory period is 4.85 percent, which is unusually high for a single-family or condominium mortgage but not for a co-op share loan. He paid 1.5 points.
After three months, Mr. Perkis's rate will jump to the COFI rate -- currently 3.94 percent -- plus a margin, or lender's profit, of 2.25 percent. No cap exists on monthly adjustments; the lifetime cap is 11.35 percent, or 6.5 percentage points above the starting rate.
"I CHOSE to have a higher cap and a lower margin," he said. "I also was able to purchase at a very low rate, and I'm not planning on holding the loan for more than three to five years. By then, I'll probably be out of the city."
Mr. Perkis's starting monthly payments will be $384; the highest they can go is $655. "Which is still pretty reasonable," he said.
Borrowers, however, should be wary of loans that have rates that change less than annually but have minimum payments that change only once a year. A rapid rise in rates and the subsequent lag in higher minimum payments could lead to negative amortization, a high-risk situation in which none of the monthly payments reduces the amount of principal owed. (Only when real estate prices are appreciating rapidly or when interest rates are falling are the risks inherent in negative amortization reduced or eliminated.)
Mr. Perkis, for example, has an option on his COFI mortgage of making the same minimum payment each month throughout the year (and risking negative amortization), or making a payment that includes the rate adjustment or making an even higher payment that would effectively be prepaying principal.
"It places the onus on the consumer to be diligent," Mr. Gumbinger said.
Besides one-year A.R.M.'s and A.R.M.'s that adjust more frequently, several new types of adjustable-rate mortgages, known as hybrids, also exist. These loans, often called 3-1's, 5-1's, 7-1's or 10-1's, have fixed rates for 3, 5, 7 and 10 years, respectively, and then adjust annually. They usually have an initial interest rate that is 0.375 of a percentage point to 0.5 of a percentage point less than that on a 30-year fixed-rate loan. Some also have conversion clauses.
"If someone calls up and they say that they want a 30-year loan but they are only going to be in their home for 10 years, we will tell them about a 10-1," said Bruce R. Lublin, president of Homerica Mortgage Corporation, a mortgage broker and banker with offices in Mamaroneck, N.Y., and Westport, Conn. "It will cost them half a point less than a 30-year fixed."
Walter Buchleigtner of North Stamford, Conn., recently took out a $250,000 3-1 loan starting at 6.375 percent, with no points, from People's Bank in Bridgeport for a three-bedroom condominium unit that he and his wife are buying on Long Island Sound in Stamford; they are downsizing from a four-bedroom house now that their twin boys are in college. A comparable fixed-rate loan would have been 9 percent.
Mr. Buchleigtner, who owns a marketing company, said that a 3-1 loan made sense in his situation because he planned to pay off the mortgage in three years and buy a retirement home out of the region.
Though many who plan to stay in an area or a home for only three years choose to rent, Mr. Buchleigtner said that he had decided to buy because his monthly payments were only $1,240. The monthly payments on a comparable 30-year fixed-rate loan would be $1,599.
"Paying $1,240 a month sounded so good," he said. "We looked at the rentals there, and they were going for twice what a mortgage payment is. The rate was also so good. I shopped the mortgage market and I had people quoting me a full point higher."
Similar to the hybrids are the "two-step" mortgages, also known as "balloon-reset mortgages" or 5-25's and 7-23's. With these loans, the rate is fixed for five or seven years, adjusts once and then remains fixed.
The starting rate is .375 to .50 of a percentage point lower than a comparable fixed-rate mortgage. The adjustment, however, is generally to a level that is above the market rate rather than a rate linked to the one-year Treasury security plus a margin of 2.25 to 2.75 percentage points. A hypothetical adjustment: the 10-year Treasury security, which is currently 7.54 percent, plus a margin of 2.5 percentage points. There is, usually an adjustment cap of 5 or 6 percentage points.
The appeal of these old-fashioned two-step loans is fading, though, especially with the advent of 5-1 and 7-1 hybrids.
"That's the product that market is abuzz about," Mr. Gumbinger said. "The percentage of A.R.M.s being reported is distorted because it includes hybrids with a fixed rate. Easily half of them are hybrids."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 23, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Oct. 9 about a house being built in Katonah, N.Y., confused the mortgage amount with the cost of the house. As noted in the article, on adjustable-rate mortgages, the mortgage was for $450,000; the price was not made public.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Neil Klar, center, his wife, Eileen, and son, Jonathan, in the house being built for them in Katonah. Mr. Klar has used fixed-rate 30-year mortgages, but he switched to a one-year adjustable-rate mortgage, also known as an ARM, for the new five-bedroom dwelling. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); Neil and Eileen Klar and son, Jonathan, outside their $450,000 house nearing completion in Katonah, N.Y. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARMGQ (NASDAQ) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: A R M FINANCIAL GROUP INC (96%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (54%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (54%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; RATES INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); SPOT MARKET (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); RADIO ADVERTISING (53%); 

PERSON: KLAR, NEIL; RAVO, NICK NEIL KLAR (58%); KEITH T GUMBINGER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



236 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Population Outnumbers Blacks in Four Major Cities as Demographics Shift

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS 

 BODY:
The Hispanic population now outnumbers blacks in four of the nation's 10 largest cities and is poised to overtake blacks in the biggest, New York, as immigration has surged, Hispanic birth rates have outpaced those of other groups, and non-Hispanic whites and middle-class blacks move to the suburbs.
The four cities -- Los Angeles, Houston, Phoenix and San Antonio -- are all in the Southwest or West. But Census Bureau figures show that the shift has been moving farther and farther beyond that region and could be reflected in the nation as a whole within 15 years -- earlier than some previous projections. The 1990 Census found that nationally, there were 22.3 million Hispanic people, a 53 percent increase since 1980. There were 29.9 million blacks, a 13 percent increase from 1980. 
 "You have a pretty impressive potential for growth," said Jorge de Pinal, chief of the Census Bureau's Ethnic and Hispanic Statistics Branch.
The Hispanic population was already in the majority in Miami, El Paso, Tex., and Santa Ana, Calif.
Analysts say the rise in the Hispanic population could have enormous political, social and economic implications, further stoking debates over policies ranging from immigration quotas to whether English should be the nation's sole official language. The shift could also affect the alliances that Hispanic and black groups have built up over the years to fight for civil rights and to lobby for services for their disproportionately poor constituents. Some of those alliances have fragmented in the last few years as these groups competed for the same Congressional or legislative seats or for jobs and other benefits in a weak economy.
Dr. Marvin Dunn, professor of community psychology at Florida International University in Miami, said there was "an intense competition for political office" in that city, "with a sense among blacks that we are losing ground to the Latinization of the community and are becoming marginalized."
"I think it transcends the experience with Cubans" in Miami, he added. "I think it's happening nationwide."
In places like Compton, Calif., where blacks dominate politics in a largely immigrant Hispanic community, said Dr. David Hayes-Bautista, director of the Center of Latino Health at the University of California at Los Angeles, "some of the things black councilmen say about the Latino population sound like the kinds of things Southern whites would have said about blacks in the 50's: 'We were here first. We're being pushed out. These are our jobs; how dare you take them away?' "
Despite differences in social, economic and political characteristics, Hispanic and black groups share many common goals, he said, "and at the grass-roots level I don't see the level of animosity I sometimes see from the politicians."
While nearly two in three Hispanic residents of the United States were born in this country, about half the nation's Hispanic people say they still speak Spanish at home and do not speak English well. Because so many are young or are recent immigrants, Hispanic people still constitute a disproportionately small share of the electorate.
From 1980 to 1990, the Census Bureau recorded that the Hispanic population had surpassed that of blacks in areas including San Francisco and Pasadena, Calif.; Homestead, Kissimmee and Lake Worth, Fla.; Arlington, Va.; Las Vegas, Nev.; Lynn, Mass.; Providence, R.I.; Rockville, Md.; Waukegan, Ill.; Central Islip and Long Beach on Long Island; Yonkers in Westchester County; Paterson and Woodbridge, N.J., and Danbury and Waterbury, Conn.
The Hispanic population was nearly as large as the black population in Beacon and Ogdensburg in upstate New York, in Edison, South Plainfield, Summit and West Orange in New Jersey, and in Bridgeport, Conn.
In many of those cities, though, non-Hispanic whites still outnumber the Hispanic and black populations.
In New York City, blacks made up 25.6 percent of the population in 1990 and Hispanic people 23.8 percent. By now, the Hispanic population may be larger than the black population, given the vast disparity in growth rates. In the 1980's, the number of black New Yorkers increased by 9 percent, while the Hispanic population increased by 27 percent.
In the early 1990's, said Dr. Joseph J. Salvo, who heads the population division of the New York City Planning Department, the emigration of blacks from the West Indies decreased somewhat, while the influx of Hispanic immigrants from the Dominican Republican intensified.
California and Texas still account for a majority of the nation's Hispanic population. More than six in 10 Hispanic citizens nationwide identify themselves as Mexican, about one in 10 as Puerto Rican and about one in 20 as Cuban. Increasingly, though, the Hispanic population is becoming more varied, with growing numbers from the Dominican Republic, Colombia, Ecuador and elsewhere.
Arguably, in the latest phase of the nation's metamorphosis, the ascendancy of Hispanic residents of the United States represents their re-emergence as the dominant minority in America after more than 400 years, decades before English colonists landed at Jamestown, Va.
Hispanic people can be of any race, although a vast majority identify themselves as white. The 1990 Census found that Hispanic people made up 9 percent of the nation's population and blacks 12 percent of the population.
Representatives from both groups are typically lumped together as "minorities" by non-Hispanic whites, but their interests sometimes diverge.
"There are problem areas," said Hugh P. Price, president of the National Urban League, a predominantly black advocacy and social service organization. "In some Los Angeles neighborhoods there has been a redistribution of jobs, of control over certain institutions. Some of the tension on the margin is to be expected as communities change. And, in the broader sense, in an environment of scarce economic resources there's a natural jockeying. But I don't think there's any kind of eruption brewing."
Representative Jose E. Serrano, the Bronx Democrat who is chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, suggested that the changes represent a challenge. "There's always the potential for conflict, but more and more there's a need for coalition because at the bottom of these two communities are basic similar needs," he said.
Dennis Rivera, head of Local 1199 of the National Health and Human Service Employees Union, in New York, agreed that blacks and Hispanic people often share the same goals regarding housing, education and employment opportunities, he also acknowledged that ethnic and racial succession can breed conflict.
"In New York City people tend to live closer together, but in Los Angeles and Florida there are strong differences between the groups," he said. "They're different, in part, because the Hispanic community in Florida -- many of them Cubans -- is far more conservative than the African-American community."
The shift in the 1980's was calculated for The New York Times by Dr. Andrew A. Beveridge of Queens College of the City University of New York.
Nearly 9 in 10 Hispanic people live in 10 of the nation's 50 states. New Mexico has the highest proportion -- about 40 percent -- although the proportion of Hispanic people in some New Mexico cities has been declining because of the influx of non-Hispanic whites from California and other states.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 1994, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A listing on Oct. 9 with a map showing growth in the Hispanic population in a group of American cities specified the states incorrectly for two entries in some editions. As the map showed, the cities -- in which the Hispanic population surpassed the non-Hispanic black population by 1990 -- were Oak Ridge, Fla., and Pittsburg, Calif.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "DEMOGRAPHICS: A Growing Population" shows some cities where the Hispanic population had surpassed non-Hispanic black population by 1990. (Source: Dr. Andrew Beveridge, Queens College Sociology Dept., from 1990 census data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); EL PASO, TX, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; TEXAS; ; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); EL PASO, TX, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; KIDNAPPING; ADOPTIONS HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); CENSUS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POLITICS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); SUBURBS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LOBBYING (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (59%); 

PERSON: LUGO, LAURA; BOTELLO, PAULYNA MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



237 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1857 words

HEADLINE: In 25-Year Fight, the Hudson Starts to Mend

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
WHEN evaluating a 198-mile stretch of the Hudson River from Manhattan north to Hudson Falls, environmentalists like John Cronin take pride in gains that have been made over a quarter of a century.
As the head of the Garrison-based Hudson Riverkeeper Fund, he cites reduced pollution and generally healthier fish populations as proof that the river has begun to mend. 
 "I'm optimistic about the future, because that's my nature," said Mr. Cronin, who is the riverkeeper for the 4,000-member environmental organization. "But I'm worried, too."
While he recognizes the gains, Mr. Cronin -- who patrols the river by boat to watch for polluters -- also describes the Hudson as "sometimes beleaguered," citing increased levels of industrial contaminants like PCB's in some places, deteriorating bulwarks along the riverfront and political setbacks.
"Progress notwithstanding," Mr. Cronin said, "there are still sources of environmental abuse, although maybe they are not as obvious as a raw-sewage pipe."
Of particular concern to environmentalists are waterfronts like that of Hastings-on-Hudson, where 40 acres of prime real estate have been "rendered almost worthless" by past industrial pollution, Mr. Cronin said.
The Anaconda Company of Great Falls, Mont., which manufactured wire and steel on the Hastings waterfront until 1970, left behind a dilapidated factory building, and a nearby structure formerly used by a defunct carting concern is still bulging with solid waste. Also, the state has estimated that the cost for cleaning up pockets of underground PCB pollution there could run as high as $15 million.
"A lot of things cross my desk," Mr. Cronin said. "Hastings is one of those stories that depress you."
The village has joined the Hudson Riverkeeper Fund as a plaintiff in a lawsuit against Harbor at Hastings Associates and other limited partnerships, which are development companies that own the former Anaconda site. Also named in the suit is the Atlantic Richfield Company, a Los Angeles-based oil company, which acquired the Anaconda Company in 1977. The Mobil Oil Corporation of Fairfax, Va., which owns another waterfront parcel in Hastings, and Chevron Chemical Corporation, a former owner of that property, are also named as defendants.
The suit is pending in United States District Court in White Plains and seeks a cleanup of the site under the Federal Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act.
Environmentalists also look at problems downriver in New York City, where floating debris mars the river surface and bacteria from overflowing sewers continue to be a problem.
They also cite as problems the waterfront in Dobbs Ferry, just north of Hastings, where model homes from an abandoned residential-housing development are tumbling into Wicker's Creek, a secondary waterway leading into the river and the site of an old Indian campground. That property was the subject of a successful lawsuit filed by the Riverkeeper Fund in District Court in White Plains.
In Croton-on-Hudson, an apartment complex along the river has been abandoned by its developer. And across the river in Nyack, a waterfront condominium development that Mr. Cronin said "became a big pink wall separating the community from the river" remains unfinished and not fully occupied. He termed it "another failed real estate project."
The problem of polychlorinated biphenyls, too, continues to vex state officials and environmentalists. In Hudson Falls, 60 miles upriver from Albany, a rotting door in a turn-of-the-century stone mill has given out, apparently releasing a stockpile of the toxic substance, which was used by General Electric in manufacturing electrical capacitors until the late 1970's.
PCB's have been implicated as carcinogens by the Federal Government, and a growing body of evidence suggests that they may also have other ill effects on humans.
Fish living in PCB-infested water carry the substance in their flesh, and the State Department of Health in April warned people not to eat more than half a pound of fish a week taken from any freshwater body in the state, including the Hudson River and New York Harbor. The advisory also said that women of childbearing age and children younger than 15 should not eat fish taken from any contaminated body of water.
The problems notwithstanding, Langdon Marsh, Commissioner of the State Department of Environmental Conservation, recently described the river as "on a recovery road."
"The Hudson, to a large extent, has been brought back from the brink of disaster," the Commissioner said.
He cited water-quality improvements -- achieved through investments in sewage-treatment plants -- under the Federal Clean Water Act of 1972 and the state's standards for industrial discharge. And he called attention to the "healthy numbers of striped bass that we're seeing in the river these days."
PCB's, unlike many other sources of pollution, are particularly troublesome to scientists because they are difficult to get rid of.
"They tend to stick around," said Ron Sloan, a research scientist with the fish and wildlife division of the State Department of Environmental Conservation.
DDT, which was used as an insect spray in the 1950's, and chlordane, used on turf to control pests, have been phased out, and the residual problems associated with their use have dissipated, scientists say.
"But PCB's are unfortunately very persistent and will continue to be with us for years to come," Mr. Sloan said.
Officials had been recording diminishing levels of PCB's in fish until 1992, when a three-fold increase occurred in some places. Brown bullhead fish, which measured 5.3 parts per million of PCB's until then, started showing 18 parts per million that year, and the level in black crappies jumped to 31.5 parts per million from 7.1.
Anything over 2 parts per million in fish is considered a health hazard, the state says.
General Electric, which discharged PCB's into the river from 1952 through the late 1970's from its plants on the eastern shore of the river in Hudson Falls and Fort Edward, signed an agreement in 1977 to halt discharges and study the impact of the contaminant.
When the problem at Allen's Mill was discovered, General Electric initiated a removal plan, and to date almost 50 tons of PCB's have been removed from the site, which is downstream from two of the company's plants.
In all, since 1990 the company has spent $45 million on correcting the PCB problem in the Hudson Falls-Fort Edwards area, which has been designated a hazardous waste site, said David C. Warshaw, a General Electric spokesman.
Bridget Barclay, environmental director for the Poughkeepsie-based Hudson River Sloop Clearwater organization, said that although there appear to be no new sources of PCB's, the river was "still paying the price." She accused General Electric of "doing too little and taking too long" to correct the problem.
Mr. Warshaw disagreed, saying that his company had responded quickly to the problems. "We saw the levels of PCB's shooting up, and we tracked it down to Allen's Mill," he said. He and M. Peter Lanahan, General Electric's manager for its Hudson River Project, said that in addition to removing PCB's from the mill, the company was sealing rock fissures, where it had found PCB leakage.
While General Electric continues, under state and Federal orders, to clean up the PCB's in Allen's Mill, there remains the highly charged question about what to do with PCB's that have settled in sediment along the river bottom.
Commissioner Marsh said the state was studying the feasibility of dredging sections of the river bottom.
But General Electric objects to dredging, contending that PCB's in the sediment are not absorbed by fish and in many places the levels of the contaminant "have dropped to nothing."
General Electric also maintains that there are many varieties of PCB's in sediments, and that regulatory agencies fail to distinguish which varieties pose a danger.
Responding to public concern about the health hazards of PCB's, Mr. Warshaw said studies of General Electric workers indicated that the risks had been overrated. He said that the company's workers have not had health problems as a result of working with PCB's.
Ms. Barclay said, however, that other medical evidence suggested that PCB's and other chemicals with the ability to mimic natural hormones were causing cancer in adults and adverse health and reproductive effects in the offspring of both humans and wildlife.
Both Commissioner Marsh and Ms. Barclay said that dredging may prove to be an effective way to remove the chemicals buried in the river bottom. They also said new dredging methods would prevent the sediments from being stirred up, which could cause the PCB's to travel downstream.
"Hudson Falls needs to be cleaned up to stop that faucet and remove PCB's," Ms. Barclay said. "But our organization also advocates dredging. We have hired a consultant to evaluate the new methodologies for destroying PCB's."
Also of concern to many environmentalists like Mr. Cronin -- who called the Hudson River the "birthplace of the modern environmental movement" -- is the potential for a conservative backlash in Washington.
One indicator of the backlash occurred last month when, property-rights advocates in the House of Representatives blocked a measure that would have given the Hudson River Valley national recognition and up to $10 million in funds over 10 years.
The bill was part of a larger measure creating 10 American Heritage areas in the country that would become what Representative Maurice Hinchey, a Democrat from Saugerties, N.Y., called "educational laboratories" for the future. The money was for capital projects aimed at increasing tourism and enhancing economic development, among other things.
"One of our biggest obstacles is government," Mr. Cronin said. "The Hudson River has been a bellwether of what's going to happen environmentally in the country in terms of environmental law, hazardous waste cleanup, fish and habitat protection and the type of activism that takes place."
Mr. Cronin and Ms. Barclay cited efforts in Croton and Ossining as examples of successful attempts to preserve the river. In those communities and others, funds from the Greenway Council, a state agency, are being used to develop waterfront areas and provide better access for the community.
Croton and Ossining are receiving $25,000 each as part of the voluntary program to create local Greenway model communities, said David S. Sampson, executive director of the agency.
Richard F. Herbek, Croton's Village Manager, said the village would develop a boat-launching ramp along its waterfront "as part of a movement to reclaim the river." It was also working with Ossining to rebuild the Croton River Bridge to add a walkway.
In another waterfront-restoration effort, Yonkers plans to use $15.5 million in county funds and $750,000 from a combination of city, state and Federal funds to renovate its historic pier.
Mr. Sampson described the Yonkers plan as potentially "a great before-and-after success story" on the river.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard F. Herbek, Croton-on-Hudson Village Manager, sits beside Croton River near confluence with the Hudson River. Village plans a boat-launching ramp to help reclaim the Hudson. Inset: former Anaconda plant in Hastings-on-Hudson. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (63%); BP (LSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON RIVERKEEPER FUND; HARBOR AT HASTINGS ASSOCIATES; ANACONDA CO; ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO (ARCO) ; MOBIL OIL CORP; CHEVRON CHEMICAL CO MOBIL OIL CORP (63%); BP PLC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUDSON RIVERKEEPER FUND; HARBOR AT HASTINGS ASSOCIATES; ANACONDA CO; ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO (ARCO) ; MOBIL OIL CORP; CHEVRON CHEMICAL CO

GEOGRAPHIC: HUDSON RIVER; CROTON-ON-HUDSON (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SUITS AND LITIGATION ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RIVERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); LITIGATION (85%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); FISHES (76%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (75%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (74%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); US RESOURCE CONSERVATION & RECOVERY ACT (70%); BACTERIA (68%); CHEMICALS (65%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (50%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA; CRONIN, JOHN JOHN CRONIN (91%); HUDSON RIVERKEEPER FUND (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



238 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2289 words

HEADLINE: Back From the Mommy Track

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. JACOBS; Deborah L. Jacobs, an independent journalist based in New York, specializes in legal and business topics.

 BODY:
JACQUELINE ENGEL IRWIN quit her job as a marketing director at Citibank in 1980 to raise her two daughters. Eight years later, after running her own consulting firm and starting an after-school center, she returned to corporate life in a position for which she felt overqualified. Ms. Irwin, now 52, has spent the last six years at the Nynex Corporation in New York, retracing her steps up the corporate ladder. In terms of salary and responsibilities, she figures she is no further along than when she stepped off the fast track 14 years ago.
Kitty Knecht began paving the road back to the fast track on the day that she announced her second pregnancy. A market researcher at the Quaker Oats Company in Chicago, she received a commitment from management to let her come back part time -- three days a week -- after her maternity leave. When she was ready for a full-time schedule two years later in 1991, she negotiated a promotion as a condition for the increased work load. But Ms. Knecht, who has a Ph.D. in psychology, still landed in what looked like a dead-end job. She said she sensed a need "to prove that I would travel, that I could stand the pace, that I could be productive and that I wasn't going to get pregnant again." Ms. Knecht, now 41, has since earned another promotion. 
 Celeste Robb-Nicholson, a Boston physician with four children, worked four days a week for six years -- first at Brigham and Women's Hospital and more recently at Massachusetts General. Both hospitals offered her tremendous flexibility, she said. But when Dr. Robb-Nicholson, 44, switched last year to a full-time schedule, she found that she would not earn as much as peers who had consistently worked full time.
Ms. Irwin, Ms. Knecht and Dr. Robb-Nicholson were part of the first great wave of women to enter business and the professions during the 1970's. A decade later, with careers well under way, many women in this group cut back or took a break for child-care reasons. Now, some of them are leading a new wave of the 90's: women working their way back from the sidelines and the mommy track.
The experiences of Ms. Irwin and the others reflect those of many women making the return trip. For all the talk by companies about accommodating work and family needs, not much has really changed, employment experts say.
"The traditional managerial career path of a continued uninterrupted climb up the corporate ladder is still held in high regard," said Joy Schneer, associate professor of management at Rider University's College of Business Administration in Lawrenceville, N.J. "If you violate that, there are repercussions."
Patricia Caputo, who worked up until the day her daughter was born and returned 12 weeks later, puts it bluntly: "You either make the decision to stick it out on the fast track or you drop out and you don't get back on. There's a big talent pool out there, and you're easily replaced." Ms. Caputo was promoted to senior business unit manager at the consumer pharmaceuticals division of the Ciba-Geigy Corporation in Woodbridge, N.J., soon after returning in 1992. Now 39 and pregnant again, she is not sure she would have received the promotion if she had taken even a few more months off.
Many of the women who chose to scale back have experienced painful trade-offs. Women like Ms. Irwin, who measure their time off in years, have had to pay their dues all over again. And, to a lesser degree, so have women like Ms. Knecht and Dr. Robb-Nicholson, even though they cut back only slightly.
The stories of these women may not surprise people who expect that taking a break will have opportunity costs. All's fair in work and family, they argue: Women who choose to step off the fast track should not complain when peers who kept moving outpace them. Besides, the argument continues, working parents with the financial flexibility to take time off are a privileged group.
But many women who try to pick up where they left off say the dues they must pay go beyond catching up on seniority and honing rusty skills. Often, they say, there is a petty and punitive edge: People who take time off risk being treated virtually as beginners, or, even worse, as dilettantes, no matter how broad their experience. Even women who keep careers afloat by cutting just one day a week may forever lag behind in salary, title and responsibilities.
Surprising or not, the early reports from those who came back could have profound implications for American companies, employment experts say. Discouraged by the news from the front, more women may forgo taking a break, risking early burnout. And more of those who do take a break may decide not to try a comeback, causing business to suffer a "brain drain" of experienced female professionals.
Such a loss would add to the costs already associated with the glass ceiling, the pervasive, often subtle, barriers to advancement that hold back many women from top positions. Such barriers are keeping the economy from growing to its full potential, Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said late last month at a hearing of the Government's Glass Ceiling Commission.
No one knows just how many women drop out for child-care reasons -- or how many try to get back in. The one hard fact is that women constitute an ever-growing percentage of American workers, up from 44.7 percent in 1973 to 57.9 percent last year.
Many women now re-entering the job market have adjusted their expectations before. They came of age professionally believing the myth of superwoman, that high-octane executive who juggled career and family without breaking a sweat. One by one, women reluctantly confessed that they could not live up to this model.
TO be sure, some businesses have made it easier for them by becoming more flexible about schedules, permitting employees to work part time, telecommute or share jobs with other working parents.
But these opportunities, which are still relatively rare, are often reserved for women who "were already the high performers, the very valued employees," said Kathleen Christensen, an environmental psychology professor in the graduate program of the City University of New York who has tracked workplace and family trends. "Companies have been allowing it largely because they don't want to lose this person and because they want them back on the fast track."
Victoria Brooks, a vice president at J. P. Morgan & Company, for example, worked four days a week for seven years when her children were young, and is now back full time, heading the company's global training program. Resuming a full-time schedule "happened pretty easily," said Ms. Brooks, 48. She attributes her smooth transition two years ago to the fact that she had a 17-year track record with the company.
But for many women, the road is much rougher. Although Ms. Irwin had an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago, 12 years of experience in managerial jobs at major corporations and had run a lucrative business of her own, a headhunter prepared her for a comedown when she started job hunting again in 1988. She should expect to earn no more than she made at her last corporate post eight years earlier, he said. As a vice president in charge of marketing at Citibank, Ms. Irwin's 1980 salary had been $60,000.
Ms. Irwin re-entered the work force at a lower level, as a marketing specialist for Nynex. Ultimately, she was able to get a promotion and make several lateral job changes.
Today she is staff director of market planning in the company's New York offices. Her current salary, she said, is less than her 1980 salary adjusted for inflation. Large companies "have molds," Ms. Irwin said. "It is very hard for them to deal with someone who is out of the mold."
Ms. Knecht has tried to work within the mold at Quaker Oats. By promising management that she would come back full time eventually, she framed her request for part-time work "as an investment the company was going to make in me that they were going to be paid back for," she said. To help her prospects for promotion after she returned, she "volunteered for some high-profile good works," like leading the United Way drive in her department and serving on a benefits design team.
The strategy worked: two years later, Ms. Knecht got a promotion to her current position as director of Quaker's convenience foods division. Like Ms. Irwin, though, she thinks she would be further along and making more money had there been no interruption.
A RECENT study by Professor Schneer of Rider University of the career paths of M.B.A.'s suggests that women executives who take time off and later go back to work permanently sacrifice career advancement and earning potential. In her study, with Frieda Reitman, professor emeritus at Pace University's Lubin School of Business in Pleasantville, N.Y., Ms. Schneer compared 128 women who had never had a gap in their employment with 63 who had taken time off and gone back to work full time by 1987.
The researchers were dealing with women who had relatively brief interruptions -- an average of 8.8 months. After adjusting for differences like years of experience, the study found that women who took a break earned 17 percent less in 1993 than women who didn't. Sixty percent of the women without a gap in employment had reached upper-middle management or higher; for those with a gap, only 44 percent reached that level.
Both groups were equally satisfied with their careers, however. Ms. Schneer speculates that women adjusted their goals so that they were happy with less.
Although Dr. Robb-Nicholson finds her career fulfilling, she is not happy with the dollars-and-cents trade-off that is a legacy of her years on a four-day week.
Part-time work has become more acceptable, she said, but it still has different connotations to different people. While young women professionals feel encouraged by the growing number of part-time opportunities, older colleagues may label part-time professionals as dabblers. "The uncertainty of returning," Dr. Robb-Nicholson said, is "what will your act have meant to whomever it is you are trying to get a job with?"
Bettina B. Plevan, a partner at the law firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn in New York, returned to work within two weeks after her second child was born nearly 20 years ago and stayed on the fast track throughout her career. Ms. Plevan now makes hiring and promotion decisions about women lawyers who have opted for reduced work schedules.
While it is not impossible for someone who worked part time to become a partner at the firm, "it's difficult to maintain the degree of interest and dedication to the job the more time you're away from the office," Ms. Plevan said. People who put families first are making "a legitimate choice," she added. But "for a period of time at least, maybe forever, the job is secondary."
Joan Faier, a New York lawyer, gave up her job at Random House in 1989 shortly before her second child was born. Now, Ms. Faier, who is 42 and married to Andrew Tannen, an executive at a large public relations firm, is ready to go back to full-time employment.
SHE is preparing "to do a big push" this fall, writing letters to companies where her skills might fit in, following up on contacts she made through Georgetown University -- her law school alma mater -- and attending professional seminars. She plans to discuss the five-year gap in her professional life, emphasizing her maturity and experience and inviting interviewers to discuss her time off. "I think that the approach of bringing this issue out in the open is valuable," said Ms. Faier, who specializes in communications law. "I don't want anybody to think that I'm somehow less dedicated."
Some women who have dropped out are avoiding the issue altogether by starting their own businesses. Given the recent spate of corporate downsizings, a growing number of women opt for self-employment, said Professor Christensen of City University. And once they discover the rewards, most do not want to return to corporate life.
From a company perspective, "these are lost assets," Ms. Christensen said.
Carol Guthrie of Darien, Conn., is among the women who are defining their own fast tracks outside the corporate world. Ms. Guthrie, who has an M.B.A. from Columbia, quit her job as an account executive at Grey Advertising in 1985, shortly before her second child was born. Two years later, she started the Connecticut Landscape, a design company she runs from the porch overlooking her garden. Annual revenues are $200,000 and growing. Ms. Guthrie, now 43, cannot imagine working for someone else again.
"If I had wanted to go back into advertising and do account management," she said, the decision to stay at home would have hurt. Instead, "it has freed me to do something for which I was suited."
 
Some Tips For the Return
 WOMEN who have made the return trip to full-time employment recommend the following steps to help get a career back on track:
* Maintain contacts with people with whom you have worked before.
* Become involved in volunteer activities in your community.
* Network through parents at your children's school.
* Start your own business.
* Read professional journals to keep current.
* Join, or rejoin, professional associations.
* Get in touch with the alumni office of your college or professional school.
* Take classes to acquire new skills.
* Look for companies that are hospitable to women: those with significant numbers of women in upper management; those with part-time or flex-time work arrangements; smaller companies and start-ups.
* Consider part-time employment or temporary jobs in your field that could lead to full-time positions.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jacqueline Engel Irwin, with daughters Christine, left, and Pamela, says it is hard for companies "to deal with someone out of the mold." (Suzanne DeChillo for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Kitty Knecht sensed a need to prove a lot when she returned full time to Quaker Oats. (Cynthia Howe for The New York Times); Carol Guthrie, who now runs her own business from home, cannot imagine working for someone else again. (Alan Zale for The New York Times) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (72%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NYNEX CORP (72%); QUAKER OATS CO (70%); WOMEN'S HOSPITAL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S HOSPITAL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WOMEN; FAMILY LEAVES PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); MATERNITY LEAVE (78%); WOMEN (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (74%); HOSPITALS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); CHILD CARE (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, DEBORAH L JACQUELINE ENGEL IRWIN (82%); KITTY KNECHT (80%); CELESTE ROBB-NICHOLSON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



239 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 15; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2167 words

HEADLINE: Hannah's Neurotic Sister? That Was Ages Ago

BYLINE: By ELLEN PALL 

 BODY:
WHEN FIRST GLIMPSED IN "Bullets Over Broadway," the new Woody Allen comedy, Dianne Wiest is hurling a script down the magnificent staircase of her sumptuous New York apartment.
"Don't you remember who I am?" she thunders as she sweeps into view, her imposing form dripping with the furbelows of high 1920's fashion, her face a seven-layer cake of makeup. She asks the question in a voice an octave lower than the sweet, girlish one film audiences may recall from Ms. Wiest's portrayal of Holly, Mia Farrow's floundering, desperately insecure sibling in Mr. Allen's 1986 "Hannah and Her Sisters." Then she answers herself in a roar: "I'm Helen Sinclair!" She might as well be saying "I'm Zeus!" 
 It's a good thing that poor, neurotic Holly, a perpetual failure of a would-be actress, lived in a different age than Helen, the slightly over-the-hill Broadway legend Ms. Wiest plays in "Bullets Over Broadway," which was shown last weekend at the New York Film Festival and opens commercially on Oct. 21. Helen would eat Holly for breakfast (or, since breakfast probably isn't a meal in the grande dame's repertory, spear Holly on a toothpick and drown her in a dry martini).
As for the woman who gave life to these disparate thespians, Ms. Wiest, sipping mochaccino by the window of a cafe near her home on the Upper West Side, was neither formidable nor nerve-racked but sunny, sympathetic, as close to serene as any sensible Manhattanite gets. At 46, she is less angular and more fair than of old. (Her formerly dark hair is streaked honey blond.) Her smile is sweet, her assessment of her accomplishments sedulously modest. Helen Sinclair would more likely sit on her than notice her. But the feeling is not mutual.
From the time she saw the script, Ms. Wiest says, she "couldn't wait" to play Helen. (Janet Maslin, writing in The New York Times, called her "wonderfully funny" in the part.) "There's something so disgusting and so inviting about this character," she said. "This empty, cavernous, shallow, egomaniacal alcoholic!" Diving into the role, she thought, was "like having a bath in chocolate."
Mr. Allen, a friend of Ms. Wiest since he cast her in a small role in his 1985 film "The Purple Rose of Cairo," wrote the part expressly for her at her request. (Mr. Allen co-wrote "Bullets Over Broadway" with Douglas McGrath, a playwright and columnist who writes the satirical Flapjack File for The New Republic.) The movie tells the story of David Shayne (played by John Cusack), a young Prohibition-era playwright hungry for his first Broadway hit. So hungry is he, in fact, that to get the money to mount the show, he agrees to cast a rich gangster's girlfriend (Jennifer Tilly) in a supporting role. Helen Sinclair, a bit long in the tooth but still enough the great lady of the stage that David soon falls in love with her, is cast in the play's leading role as a spurned wife. (It is the insulting unglamorousness of this character that initially causes her to throw the script down the stairs.)
For Ms. Wiest, the outsize, self-centered, flamboyant Helen is a bit of a departure, for the actress has had, in some ways, a curious career. A highly respected and successful veteran of the New York stage, she started out in theater playing Shakespeare and Shaw, then got raves for her comic performance in Tina Howe's "Art of Dining" at the Public Theater in 1979. Since then, she has played leading roles -- often tragic -- in many Broadway and Off Broadway productions, including Desdemona to James Earl Jones's Othello and Maggie to Frank Langella's Quentin in Arthur Miller's "After the Fall." Over the summer Sidney Lumet directed her as a haunted survivor of the Holocaust in the premiere of Cynthia Ozick's play "Blue Light" at the Bay Street Theater Festival in Sag Harbor, on Long Island.
Yet in film, she is seldom offered anything but comedy. She sees the fact as a legacy of her flighty role in "Hannah" in 1986. Though it won her the Academy Award for best supporting actress, it also, seemingly, doomed her to be cast by Hollywood as a ditzy comedian. And, since she was already 37 when "Hannah" was released, that has meant mainly moms: high-strung moms ("Parenthood"), dizzy moms ("Cookie"), sweet moms ("Edward Scissorhands") and surrogate moms ("The Scout," Michael Ritchie's comedy, released 10 days ago, in which she plays a motherly psychiatrist).
So the powerful, egocentric, childless Helen was a particularly exhilarating gift to Ms. Wiest from Mr. Allen. Yet, as sometimes happens with gifts, at first she had trouble figuring out how to wear it. She had acted a grande dame before, but on stage and in a very serious drama, "In the Summer House" at Lincoln Center last year. And she was, according to Frank Rich, writing in The New York Times,"priceless" as a struggling Polish emigre actress Off Broadway in Janusz Glowacki's comedy "Hunting Cockroaches." But she didn't know how to play a grande dame in a comedy.
After the first day's shooting of "Bullets Over Broadway," "Woody came over to me and said, 'It's no good,' " she remembered. "So I went and saw the dailies, and I was just awful. I thought, 'This might be one of the more gigantic cases of miscasting.' " She promptly returned to Mr. Allen and suggested that he consider letting her leave the movie. The director was unperturbed.
Remembering the initial misfire, Mr. Allen said: "This character was so unlike who she is in life, so different than anything she's played. But she's a tremendously gifted actress. She can play comedy or Lady Macbeth or Arthur Miller. It really just becomes a problem of exploring with her a little bit. And very quickly, she got it."

THE CHIEF KEY TO "GETTING it" proved to be Helen Sinclair's voice. The character shapes her words as if shaping words were a thrilling, sensual activity. Angered, she barks, snarls, growls; when she purrs, it's the purr of a tiger.
"Certain actors and actresses need some kind of thing to play," said Mr. Allen of the throaty vocal style that seemed to free Ms. Wiest to be Helen. "Often, it's the costume: Put them in their pirate costume and suddenly they start mincing and flouncing. Other people, it's the voice -- they play it as a Hungarian, or an English actress. With her it helped to play in a more -- I don't know what -- a more pretentious voice." As
 
 
the production went on, whenever Mr. Allen said "voice" to Ms. Wiest, she knew she had gone off track. She would drop her pitch and become Helen once again.
But how did she come up with Helen's diction, which makes the words "full of life," for example, sound like "fool of lllife"?
"That's probably my stage voice," the actress said, a little abashed. "Which I would never think of using in film -- you can't take a stage performance and put it on film. It's like trying to paint in marble."
Yet for Helen Sinclair, stagiest of actresses and larger than life in her own living room, theater techniques designed to project 500 seats back seemed just right.
"It's really no different than Hedda Gabler," Ms. Wiest said of her own performance, "but the lines are different."
In the film Ms. Wiest was deliberately made to look older to emphasize the difference in age between Helen and David Shayne (Mr. Cusack is 28). But though she enjoyed filming her love scenes with Mr. Cusack ("He's a very good kisser"), she also found doing them unsettling. The difference in their ages, she feels, would have passed unnoticed had their genders been reversed. "But it's strange to be the woman," she said. "To be older, with everything in her life ebbing, to go after the young playwright -- it's very sad. Or it could be sad." She laughed and raised her eyebrows. "But I had a very good time."
As for Mr. Cusack, he didn't find the love scenes strange at all. "When you French kiss your mother and then she cuts your throat," as happened with him and Anjelica Huston in "The Grifters," he said, "that's strange. This was so harmless, really. Dianne is a beautiful woman. I mean, she's not 75."
Ms. Wiest was born in Kansas City, Mo., and grew up in an Army family in half a dozen towns in the United States and Germany. Her parents had met in Algiers during World War II, when her father was a reconnaissance pilot and her mother, a Scot, was a surgical nurse with the British nursing corps. After the war, they settled in America, where Ms. Wiest and her two younger brothers were born; her father eventually became a psychiatric social worker for the Army.

HER PERIPATETIC CHILDhood hardened her to at least one useful end, she believes: it made it relatively easy for her to jump into a production, reveal herself intimately, then leave. She was also helped by ballet, which she studied as a teen-ager at the School of American Ballet here, during the time the family lived at West Point, north of New York City.
"One of the reasons I found the courage and confidence to act was what ballet had given to me," she said. "I felt, O.K., I had been out there and people had been looking at me. Now I had to open my mouth."
She dropped ballet at 16 but took up acting in high school productions. She studied acting at the University of Maryland, left to join a touring Shakespearean troupe, spent four years at the Arena Stage in Washington, then appeared in several productions at the New York Public Theater. Her performance in "The Art of Dining" brought her her first broad recognition. But while her stage career flourished, her sporadic, mostly small film roles received little attention until Mr. Allen added her to his band of regulars. After "The Purple Rose of Cairo" came "Hannah and Her Sisters," then "Radio Days," in which she had a small part as a woman desperate to marry, and a major dramatic role as a troubled married woman in Mr. Allen's serious chamber piece "September."
Then Mr. Allen made seven movies without Ms. Wiest.
"Was it seven?" gasped the actress. "Yeah, I had children, that's what happened. And I'm one of these women who has failed utterly at combining family and career." Though Mr. Allen continued to call and offer roles now and then, "I had to stop and just be with them," she said.
Ms. Wiest, who has never married, is the mother of two daughters, Emily, now 7, and Lily, 3. Both are adopted. When the subject of her girls comes up, the actress's face leaves the realm of sunny and heads toward celestial. "It's just the most incredible love," she said. "Everything else sort of pales."
Having children has changed her in several ways, says John Tillinger, a friend who has directed her on stage in Lanford Wilson's "Serenading Louie" and in "After the Fall." When they first met, he said, "she was very much the actress."
"She traveled," he said. "She worked. That was the job."
But her priorities have changed. "Now she is very much a mother," he said. "When you adopt it's a real, conscious decision. This is something she did on her own, something very brave. That has deepened her."
Another longtime friend, the screenwriter and playwright Steve Tesich, calls the actress a "clean soul," one who can be hurt easily when she or others fail to live up to her high standards. "She is not a street-smart person," he said. "She's not sarcastic. She hasn't got that cool, jaded quality. She has no armor plating."
Mr. Tesich added that it would be wrong to claim that having children has brought out her warmth, which was already there. The difference, he said, is that she "now has two living, wonderful children who can receive all of it."
Since her daughters came, Ms. Wiest said, her ambition is "almost gone."
"No, I can't say almost gone. I love to work," she corrected herself a moment later. "And I do have to make a living."
Hence the movie moms. Yet even when she speaks of the "bitter taste" left in her mouth by playing such slight, familiar supporting roles on screen, she doesn't sound very upset.
"I can have that bitter taste all the way to the bank and not believe I've been paid like this," she said. "And that frees me to be with my kids and do all the Off Broadway I want."
Will Helen Sinclair change all that? Will Hollywood directors finally see (and cast) a new, powerful Dianne Wiest, one who can carry a movie rather than simply adorn it? If the role does mark an epoch in Ms. Wiest's career, she seems to be the last one to know.
"God, that would be so nice!" she exclaimed wistfully, clearly startled by the very notion. But she doubts it.
"Woody is really the only one who's taken any kind of chance with me at all," she said. "I can't imagine people in Hollywood are going to see this and say, 'Oh, yeah, let her play the ax murderer.' "
In any case, "I feel very, very lucky in terms of career," she said.
And what new projects is she involved in now?
"Nothing. Putting the kids in school."
And the future?
"No prospects." She gave a tranquil smile that made this sound like the optimal state for a very lucky actress.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dianne Wiest and John Cusack in "Bullets Over Broadway"--A 1920's actress who loves a young playwright for his mind. (Brian Hamill/Miramax Films); Ms. Wiest, right, with Mia Farrow, left, and Barbara Hershey in "Hannah and Her Sisters"--On screen, a flighty unemployed actress. (Brian Hamill/Orion Pictures); The actress in the premiere last summer of Cynthia Ozick's drama "Blue Light"--On stage, a haunted survivor of the Holocaust. ("Blue Light")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BULLETS OVER BROADWAY (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALLEN CO INC (WINCHESTER KY) (60%); NEW YORK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); WRITERS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); FESTIVALS (70%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: PALL, ELLEN; WIEST, DIANNE; ALLEN, WOODY DIANNE WIEST (94%); WOODY ALLEN (92%); MIA FARROW (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



240 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: The New World Disorder

BYLINE: By Francis Fukuyama; Francis Fukuyama is a member of the research staff of the Rand Corporation in Washington and the author of "The End of History and the Last Man."

 BODY:

CIVIL WARS
From L.A. to Bosnia.
By Hans Magnus Enzensberger.
144 pp. New York:
The New Press. $18. 
PROVOCATIVE and widely read when they appeared in Germany, the three essays making up this slim volume by one of that country's leading poets, dramatists and philosophers all relate broadly to current problems of ethnicity, immigration and violence. The first essay in "Civil Wars," itself entitled "Civil War," argues that the highly organized and goal-directed wars of industrialized nation-states have now been replaced by "molecular civil war." In Hans Magnus Enzensberger's phrase, "violence has freed itself from ideology," and thence from any sort of heroism or higher purpose. We are wrong to think that the fighting in Bosnia or Afghanistan is over issues like ethnic identity or Islamic fundamentalism. Nor does the extreme nationalist right in Germany have a meaningful agenda; conversations with German skinheads show them to be absolutely devoid of ideas, even fascist ones.
The very goallessness of the new violence gives it a nihilistic character: in a strange abnegation of self, the perpetrators are willing to bring destruction equally on themselves and the things they hold dear. Thus the German skinhead is willing to attack a fellow German as much as a foreigner, while the gang member in Los Angeles burns down the community center built for his benefit. The reaction of the comfortable part of society (as well as of the wealthy West as a whole) to all of this is to wall itself up behind security gates while the "molecular" violence metastasizes.
Like virtually all other European writers and intellectuals today, Mr. Enzensberger is unrelievedly gloomy about our present situation. Based on his own arguments, however, it is hard to understand how the changes he portrays make the world as a whole worse. Forget the fact that he ignores the large parts of Asia and Latin America that, far from sinking into anomic violence, are closing the gap between themselves and the wealthy West and joining the global village. Would we really be better off if violence were the preoccupation not of disorganized gangs at the margins of society but rather of disciplined states with well-defined and conflicting purposes, ready to commit huge amounts of money and all of their technological resources to achieve them? The latter situation, in effect, describes the cold war world we have just left behind. Mr. Enzensberger notes that wars between states had many positive consequences -- the promotion of constitutionalism, spreading enfranchisement, the abolition of serfdom -- while today's violence is purely destructive. This is all true enough, but it constitutes a strange sort of nostalgia to see the good side of conflicts that included Verdun and Nagasaki. The very incoherence of the new civil wars makes them self-limiting and therefore, at least to outsiders, less destructive.
"Europe in Ruins," the middle essay of "Civil Wars," similarly contains good news wrapped in bad. Its ostensible purpose is to remind Europeans that only a few decades separate them from conditions no different from the chaos they now read about in the third world. Mr. Enzensberger pictures the years 1944-48 through the eyes of a number of firsthand British and American observers. These accounts of a time when many Europeans thought that their civilization had met its demise, both physically and morally, re-create a sense of the sheer enormity of what had taken place, as well as of the nervous forms of denial and self-justification prevalent among Germans and Nazi collaborators in France, Italy and elsewhere.
The conflict that led to these horrors, however, was pre-eminently that sort of purposive, ideological war carried out by large industrialized states that Mr. Enzensberger argues is disappearing. World War II displayed many grotesque pathologies, but it does not advance our understanding to compare it to the social breakdown of contemporary Liberia or Afghanistan.
In spite of the apparent anarchy at the war's end, Europe retained a high degree of orderliness. Mr. Enzensberger himself describes the incredible energy with which Germans, Italians and Frenchmen went about the business of adaptation and reconstruction in the face of defeat and occupation. He admits, almost despite himself, that the deadly ideology that drove the war has disappeared: the Germans have become peaceful, democratic, a "nation of shopkeepers" succumbing to the primacy of economics over politics. "Europe in Ruins" should remind Western Europeans not of their closeness to the carnage of contemporary Bosnia, as its author intends, but of their distance from it.
THE final essay, "The Great Migration," can best be described as a thoughtful and highly nuanced discussion of the German debate over immigration and asylum. Mr. Enzensberger has a clear-eyed understanding of the hypocrisies and contradictions on both sides. He has no patience for right-wing Germans who argue that Germany is not a nation of immigration, or that it is a lifeboat unable to hold more passengers. More than most other nations, he argues, Germany is the product of continual population shifts and changes, to which Germans have adapted in the past. On the other hand, he dislikes the moral posturing of those on the left who want Germany to solve the third world's problems, and questions whether it is realistic for Germany to become a truly "multicultural" society. What this means concretely for German policy toward refugees and immigrants is not spelled out.
Given that the post-cold war world presented in this book is in many respects much better than its predecessor, the question remains why its author and other Europeans like him are so pessimistic. Mr. Enzensberger himself hints at a possible explanation when he acknowledges that the apparent disorderliness of the world of the 1990's is in many respects a news media artifact. He notes that Bosnias and Rwandas have been occurring with grim regularity throughout history -- indeed, they proceed out of deep-seated and universal human drives -- but we are only now being made vividly aware of them. The author draws from this the sensible conclusion that both our universalistic moral concerns and our desire to intervene to fix the world's problems have to be tempered with a sense of limits, since there is no end to the outrages brought to our living rooms by modern communications.
There are many gaps in Mr. Enzensberger's argument, the most glaring of which is the lack of any account of how "molecular civil war" arises and spreads. Granted that it reflects deep human urges, why has it emerged in Monrovia or Mogadishu and not Seoul or Santiago? While the parallels between gangs in Los Angeles and the third world are intriguing, the author surely does not mean to argue, like Robert D. Kaplan in The Atlantic Monthly earlier this year, that Europe and the United States are about to disintegrate into Somali-style warlordism. Despite its failure to come to closure on this and other issues it raises, "Civil Wars" remains consistently interesting and full of small but striking insights on the changes taking place since the end of Communism.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CIVIL WARS: FROM L.A. TO BOSNIA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CIVIL WAR (91%); WRITERS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); ETHNICITY (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); POETRY (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); RELIGION (68%); FUNDAMENTALISM (53%); 

PERSON: FUKUYAMA, FRANCIS; ENZENSBERGER, HANS MAGNUS HANS MAGNUS ENZENSBERGER (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



241 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1994

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 8; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Shore Merchants Breathing Sighs of Relief After Rise in Summer Business

BYLINE: By LEO H. CARNEY 

DATELINE: MARGATE CITY

 BODY:
THE magnificent homes with manicured lawns along Ventnor Boulevard, as well as the private toll bridge that charges 50 cents to get both in and out of this bedroom community of Atlantic City, tells one immediately that it is not a typical Jersey Shore town. What is typical, though, is the kind of summer Margate had this year. It was good.
Beach tag revenues were up about $1,000 -- from $163,000 in 1993 to $164,000 this summer, said Thomas D. Hiltner, the City Clerk. And most businesses, including Robert Hammerschlag's Deli Express, report doing a great business. But business, they say, is seldom really bad here. 
 Linda Mysliwy Conlin, director of the state's division of travel and tourism, summed up what is known so far about the shore tourism economy of 1994. "When the official figures are in, and we do not expect them for several months, I think that they will show that 1994 was a very good year at the shore, approaching the summer of 1993," she said.
According to recent interviews with residents, merchants and local officials, what Mrs. Conlin and others had predicted in June could be the best summer on record in years turned out to be exactly that for some, but not others.
"August was one of the most phenomenal months we have had since 1985, almost like the old days," said Jeanne DiPaola, executive director of the Southern Ocean County Chamber of Commerce. "There were more people staying from Saturday to Saturday, instead of just long weekends, and rentals were up 8 to 10 percent."
The chamber takes in Long Beach Island, the barrier island between Barnegat Light State Park and Holgate.
Marion Larsen, whose husband, John, is the captain of Miss Barnegat Light, a party fishing boat, said that July was 15 percent below the same period in 1993 while August was 60 percent higher -- an overall increase of 45 percent for the summer of 1994. The total number of passenger fares for both months was 7,000, she said.
The success varies, not only from county to county but from town to town. For example, just several miles north of Barnegat Light, in the same county, the story was different. Bob Bennett, owner of Casino Pier and Water Park in Seaside Heights, said that revenues were down about 4 percent from 1993.
More than two million people visited the amusement pier's rides, eateries and other attractions, Mr. Bennett said, "but some mornings you could not even see the ocean from the beach because of the fog." He explained that ocean water temperatures that seldom left the 60's, several rainy weekend days, as well as some afternoon thunderstorms reduced admissions at the Water Park, but generally not at the amusement pier.
"In 1993 we had perfect weather and business was up 10 to 15 perent over 1992, so we have never really slipped," Mr. Bennett said. "My feeling is that the economy is still not what it should be and that some people were cautious about spending their money."
Nor were there any records broken in Monmouth County. At the Sandy Hook unit of Gateway National Recreation Area, Bruce Lane, the supervising park ranger, said that while summer admissions had not yet been tallied, attendance was good -- about one million visitors -- "but a little lower than last year."
July was the busiest month, he said, and "by August people seemed to pretty much have their fill of the beach and did not come back."
In Belmar, beach tag revenues were down about $100,000, representing about 28,000 fewer people than in 1993, according to figures provided by Marie Newbery, the principal account clerk for the borough. Although the the 247,000 beach tags sold last summer in Belmar were down from the 283,000 sold in 1993, the figure was about 14,000 more than 1992.
Mrs. Newbery said that in addition to cool water temperatures and a few stormy weekends, the borough's beach season started a week later this year.
There were 50 beach closings along the coast due to higher than normal bacteria counts. Dave Rosenblatt, a spokesman for the state's Department of Environmental Protection, said that Atlantic City had 27 of the closings, 22 of which occurred in just one day, July 19. Seaside Heights had 7 and Cape May, 4. Others occurred in Long Branch, Spring Lake and areas where, Mr. Rosenblatt said, large volumes of contaminated stormwater runoff temporarily entered the bathing beaches after heavy, prolonged rains.
Mr. Rosenblatt and others said that while the 50 closings were more than the 1992 and 1993, which saw 27 and 34, respectively, they were nowhere near the 784 closings during 1988, the shore's worst year ever for the economy and environment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DELI EXPRESS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BEACHES WATER PARKS (89%); BEACHES (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); TRENDS (76%); STATE PARKS (76%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COUNTIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); OCEANS (69%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); ISLANDS & REEFS (68%); 

PERSON: CARNEY, LEO H BOB BENNETT (67%); DAVE ROSENBLATT (66%); LINDA MYSLIWY CONLIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994



242 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: THE MILITARY BUILDUP;
AT LEAST 36,000 U.S. TROOPS GOING TO GULF IN RESPONSE TO CONTINUED IRAQI BUILDUP

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration announced tonight that it is sending at least 36,000 troops and some of its most potent warplanes to the Persian Gulf to counter a large and continuing buildup of Iraqi troops near the Kuwaiti border.
But American officials said that if the Iraqis continue their military preparations at the current rate, they could be in a position to launch a major invasion of Kuwait in a matter of days, well before the vast majority of the ground troops could arrive. 
 President Clinton approved the additional troop deployments, a substantial increase over what had been announced Saturday, after conferring with his top national security aides today.
A senior Pentagon official said Mr. Clinton had ordered the 18,000-member 1st Marine Expeditionary Force to the Persian Gulf. He also ordered the 16,000 troops from the Army's 24th Mechanized Division to head out.
Senior Pentagon officials said that additional Army divisions had been told to prepare to go to Kuwait and that the American deployment could double yet again, to about 70,000 troops or so. Some Pentagon officials expect the American deployment to grow well beyond 36,000 troops if the Iraqis continue to menace Kuwait. But the final decision to send more divisions has not been made.
The United States already has 2,000 Marines on ships in the northern Persian Gulf.
The Administration is also sending 51 additional combat planes, including A-10 tank-attack planes and F-16 fighter jets, bringing the number of warplanes in the region to about 200.
The deployments are the latest indication of how seriously the Administration takes the Iraqi military threat.
Today's deployment represented a major stepping up of American military preparations. On Saturday, Pentagon officials said that only 4,000 Army troops from the 24th Mechanized Division were being ordered to Kuwait.
The Pentagon's hope is that by dispatching troops and warplanes suited to attacking Iraqi ground forces, it will deter an Iraqi action. In effect, the United States is in a race to put sufficient forces in the region to mount a credible defense.
President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, for his part, appeared to have his own strategy. Military officials said the Iraqi forces, which first began moving toward Kuwait on Oct. 2, were estimated tonight to be about 70,000 and still growing.
American intelligence showed that two Republican Guard divisions, the Hammurabi and the Al Nida, had been deployed within a few miles of Kuwait. The Iraqi divisions, each with about 10,000 troops, took up their positions late last week and have ammunition and food for 15 days, the intelligence sources said.
American officials also say divisions from Iraq's III Corps near Basra are also on alert. In addition, three additional Iraqi divisions may be preparing to join the force north of Kuwait, including the Adnan, a Republican Guard division.
In Kuwait, United Nations officials said several hundred Iraqi civilians had put up tents along the border, possibly to stage an anti-Kuwait demonstration. Iraq has staged such demonstrations in the past, describing the protesters as farmers who had been forced off their lands along the border.
But a senior Kuwaiti official said at a news conference this evening that the Iraqis were soldiers.
"These are not stateless people," the official said. "These are Iraqi soldiers dressed in civilian clothes, put there by Iraq to embarrass Kuwait."
President Clinton cut short his visit to Camp David today to discuss the situation in the gulf with Defense Secretary William J. Perry; Vice President Al Gore; Gen. John M. D. Shalikashvili, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Anthony Lake, the national security adviser.
The stark warnings today by Administration officials and the display of military force were intended to make clear that the Administration would fight to protect Kuwait and to discourage President Saddam Hussein from miscalculating American intent. Three and a half years ago, an American-led coalition drove Iraqi troops out of Kuwait.
"All in all, this is a formidable military force," the Defense Secretary asserted on the CBS News program "Face the Nation."
Pentagon officials said that additional deployments were under consideration. The air deployments ordered today did not include F-117 stealth fighters, whose strikes knocked out Iraqi command posts and communications in downtown Baghdad during the Persian Gulf war, or B-52's, which pounded Iraqi forces during that conflict. But Pentagon officials said they are considering sending such planes.
American officials still hope Iraq is bluffing. But they also acknowledge that it is possible that Mr. Hussein believes the Administration is distracted by Haiti and other trouble spots, and that Iraq's economic situation is so dire that this is the moment to force a crisis or even launch a military strike.
By this analysis, Iraq's intent would be to negotiate a new settlement that would lead to the lifting of economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations.
Administration officials said Iraq has several military options: it could make a small raid to occupy disputed areas of the border, like Kuwaiti-held territory near the port at Umm Qasr, and dare American military forces to respond, or it could sit tight, maintaining military pressure on Kuwait.
Or Iraq could launch a major attack. Baghdad has not made all of the necessary logistical preparations for a major invasion, Administration officials said, but they noted that Iraqi forces could be in a position to strike by Tuesday or Wednesday.
The Persian Gulf is 7,000 miles from the United States, and the American buildup will take time. The 4,000 Army troops, from the 24th Mechanized Division at Fort Stewart, began deploying Saturday night. But it will take several days for all the troops to fly to Kuwait and get the tanks and other weapons that are stored there.
Even with American air power, the troops there would be in peril if Iraq attacked soon. But by attacking the American unit, Iraq would be commiting itself to war with the United States.
Recognizing the vulnerability of the initial American deployments, top Administration officials went out of their way today to publicize the new air deployments and to threaten punishing missile and air attacks against Baghdad if Iraqi forces attacked Kuwait.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, for instance, said today that Iraq would pay a "horrendous price" if it invaded Kuwait a second time.
And on Saturday, Lieut. Gen. John J. Sheehan of the Marines, the chief operations officer for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the United States would fire sea-launched cruise missiles at Baghdad and other targets deep in Iraq if Iraqi troops crossed into Kuwait.
It will also take some time to get a heavier ground force in place. The 18,000 marines will fly to Saudi Arabia and get their equipment at the port of Al Jubail. More than 300 Marines left today for Diego Garcia to help prepare the equipment that is to be carried to Saudi Arabia on ships from that island in the Indian Ocean. But the ships are about seven sailing days from Saudi Arabia and are not expected to leave until Monday.
President Clinton spoke by telephone today with King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, who agreed on the need to act quickly to deter any Iraqi attack, a senior Clinton Administration official said.
The immediate issue for Iraq is to lift the economic sanctions, which have been in place since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Iraq insists that it has complied with the conditions set by the United Nations that could clear the way for the lifting of sanctions: destroying its weapons of mass destruction.
But the United States contends that Iraq has not complied. The Central Intelligence Agency, for example, says Iraq has hidden Scud missiles, and Administration officials say Iraq has not turned over crucial information to the United Nations, including data on its weapons suppliers.
Some nations, like France and Russia, which would like to resume trade with Iraq, have been more sympathetic to the Iraqi position. But that was before Baghdad began its latest saber-rattling. One senior State Department official said France and Russia indicated to the United States this weekend that they would back American efforts to continue the sanctions.
Among the air units being sent to the gulf are 24 A-10 tank-attack planes and 18 F-16 fighters from Pope Air Force Base, N.C.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lieut. Col. Alan Landry, center, commander of the 2d Battalion, 43d Air Defense Artillery, says goodbye to Cpl. Lance Castleman as part of the battalion, based at Fort Polk, La., left for the Persian Gulf yesterday. (pg. A1); President Clinton returned from Camp David yesterday for a meeting with his advisers on Iraq's apparent threat to Kuwait. Hours later, a senior Pentagon official said more than 30,000 marines and soldiers would be sent to the Persian Gulf to counter the Iraqi buildup. (Associated Press) (pg. A10)
 
Chart: "MILITARY DEPLOYMENT"
 
U.S. forces
 
More than 30,000 troops in transit from U.S. bases with 51 warplanes
 
2,000 marines on four ships with the amphibious assault ship Tripoli in the Persian Gulf
 
Aircraft carrier George Washington en route to the Red Sea
 
About 85 U.S. planes at bases across Saudi Arabia
 
Iraqi forces near Kuwait
 
Over 63,000 troops with two weeks' worth of food and ammunition
 
(Sources: Defense Department; Reuters) (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); KUWAIT (95%); GULF STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); RED SEA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRIPOLI, LIBYA (59%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); KUWAIT (95%); GULF STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (94%); RED SEA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TRIPOLI, LIBYA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARMED FORCES (94%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); ARMIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



243 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS;
For Voters, Hope Gives Way To Anger, Fear and Cynicism

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAVANNAH, Ga., Oct. 8

 BODY:
This colonial city is so sedate that the biggest contretemps is how to retrieve the bench on Chippewa Square, on which Tom Hanks sat in the movie "Forrest Gump" and which has now been replaced by a dumpster. But get them talking about politics, and residents here are no less irritable, dispirited or cynical than the rest of America.
Mannered they may be, but they are also angry. 
 "I've thought of moving to another country," said F. W. Daily, a 74-year-old anesthesiologist who has lived here for 35 years. "I'm considering Costa Rica for my wife and me. If I live another 10 years, it's going to be economically unfeasible to live in this country. These politicians think they're a law unto themselves."
Sherri Lawless, a 38-year-old city employee, said that she voted for President Clinton in 1992 but that he had let her down like other politicians. "I had to take my bumper sticker off my car," she said. "It just reached a point where it was difficult to be supportive."
It is a bitterness that came up time and again in dozens of interviews around the country this week, from a corn and hog farm in Sigourney, Iowa; to an automobile factory in Ypsilanti, Mich.; to a boat yard in Yarmouth, Me.; to a grocery store in a depressed section of Oakland, Calif. People are as discouraged about politics as they have ever been. And they are scared about their futures.
This is by no means the first time that polling and interviews have uncovered an unsettled electorate. What is different this season is how nasty and ugly the mood has become. The disillusionment that helped elect Mr. Clinton in the first place has only deepened -- to the point where people say they do not expect that their leaders can make things right again. The cynicism has frozen into something of a political tundra that would take a great wave of heat and light to thaw.
"The hope and the expectations of 1992 have given way to the fear and cynicism of 1994," said Peter Hart, a Democratic pollster. "It is really surly and mean."
What is also striking, as well as perplexing, is that unlike in the past, the antagonism is not fueled so much by personal anxieties over the economy; many people interviewed said they were not particularly pressed financially. And they did not talk much about specific issues or Congressional votes. Instead, they expressed a general unease about their futures and a feeling that they were not getting ahead. They also spoke of a broader sense that the country was losing its moral roots and that the ever-corrupt politicians could do nothing about it. Again and again they cited politicians they did not trust, from Dan Rostenkowski to Oliver L. North to Bill Clinton.
"It's scary," said Douglas C. Ray, 50, a worker at the General Motors plant in Ypsilanti and an independent. "The nation as a whole is losing all respect for the political process. We'll leave ourselves open to some demagogue. They'll say they tried the democratic process and it doesn't work."
Karen Meryash, 41, a medical marketing manager in Oakland, Calif., stopped while grocery shopping with her two baby daughters to register her frustration. "People have been voting and voting and voting for a change and haven't seen a difference," said Ms. Meryash, a Democrat. "There's a sense that the system is broken."
This deep disgust with Government is what may be leading voters to threaten to turn on Congressional leaders like the Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley of Washington, and Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, both Democrats. Maybe that is why so many incumbents who measure such things say their popularity ratings are stuck at record lows.
In Savannah, Dr. Daily, a Republican, was one of several people who spoke seriously of leaving the country. J. Everett Graves, 53, a retired firefighter in Richmond and an independent, said he, too, was thinking of moving to Costa Rica because of a lower crime rate and more favorable tax laws. "I'm looking for a place that will allow you the freedom to raise your child as you see fit, to live in relative safety and at least be free to protect yourself and your property."
Voters said they were discouraged, though not surprised, that a Congress and a President elected on a wave of reform in 1992 could not bring themselves to pass even a mild campaign finance measure this year. And some looked with disdain at how even the special interests have eagerly fed off the cynicism. More than one remarked that Representative Mike Synar, an Oklahoma Democrat, lost his party's primary, in part because interest groups like the National Rifle Association spent large sums to tar him as an out-of-touch incumbent who is too fond of the President.
"The guy basically voted his conscience," said Everett Toney, a shipping company official, as he leaned on a parking meter after work in downtown Savannah. "Now he's out of office just because he did the right thing." He added, "I've actually gotten to the point where I've considered not participating, not voting, this year."
The hostility was also captured in a recent focus group of independent voters assembled in Denver by Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster. "What do you think of when I say the word Congress?" he asked a dozen participants from assorted demographic backgrounds.
As Mr. Luntz went around the table, the only responses offered were ones that would depress incumbents who are returning home for recess this weekend: "inept," "same old, same old," "crooks," "overpaid," "great power," "over-impressed with themselves," "out to lunch" and "glorified people who like to have two places to live."
Adding to the insult, in the interviews around the country this week, most people were stumped when asked to identify any politician they admired. "Admire?" asked Ronnie Thompson, a 48-year-old restaurant manager in Savannah who is a Republican. After jangling the change in his pocket, he laughed when he finally came up with an answer, "People that stand out in my mind are ones that I dislike."
But Mr. Toney, 47, who said he usually voted for Democrats, did not laugh at the question. "It's sad," he said. "These are our leaders. We should have admiration for them. But the only people I've looked up to were my school teachers; they're really in the trenches."
Pamela Snelling, a 39-year-old bank officer in this coastal city, put down her newspaper long enough to offer her view of a typical politician. "They're on an ego trip," she said. "They sit around playing power games with each other."
Republicans, of course, groused about the star of their commercials this campaign season: Mr. Clinton. Democrats, by the same token, groused about what Mr. Hart, the Democratic pollster, called the "red-light group -- Republicans who stop everything." But beyond the obvious partisan divides, people in both parties, young and old, wealthy and struggling, black and white, agreed that the problems had become so ingrained that not even a new President or Congress could solve them.
People said they were disgusted by what they saw as the escalating sniping on both sides that left Congress unable to pass several major bills before the election.
"People have lost a lot of respect for other people," said Peggy Yates, 61, a Democrat who is a first-grade teacher in Sigourney, Iowa. "There seems to be a constant partisanship and a constant bickering all the time -- they're just always at each other." Her husband, Don, a 62-year-old farmer, agreed, saying, "They ought to be more disciplined."
Johanna Lockhart, an official with an investment company in Houston, said any hope for the nation did not rest with politicians. "If there could be a gentle revolution in this country from the voters who just say, 'It's the old, we're mad as hell and we're not going to take this any more,' " Ms. Lockhart, 50 and an independent, said over a sandwich on a park bench. "But it's got to come from the voters. Congress isn't going to do it. They're not going to set term limits on themselves. And they're not going to restrict the amount of money they can take in for their campaigns."
The lack of faith in leadership comes as people say they worry about crime and their economic well being. Even those with jobs and steady incomes are generally apprehensive.
"Our safety is in jeopardy each time we walk the streets," Helen Neuner, 75, explained as she toted a bag of produce from a gourmet grocery in Miami Beach. "I don't think they're putting enough money into the fight for crime." The retired nurse said she was so worried that she was thinking of breaking her Democratic tradition and voting Republican in November.
As he was walking the beat at an outdoor shopping mall nearby on Biscayne Bay, Peter Romero, a 34-year-old police officer, said he had to moonlight as a security guard 10 to 20 hours a week to support his family. "It's scary down the line," this Republican said, noting that he has a year-old son. "What can happen is not having the money there for him, for education."
Douglas P. Keen, 24, a graduate student at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, said he intended to continue voting for Democrats. But he also sounded worried about his security. "A healthy economy right now does not mean a healthy economy in 20 years," he said.
Cradling his cappuccino at an outdoor cafe here, Jim Routon, a physician, shook his head as he explained how politicians had lost their souls. "When you're young, you look up to your father -- that's your whole world," said Mr. Routon, 53, a Republican. "Then you find your father is really a sleaze bag. He's been running around and lying. You lose your stability. That's the way I feel."

GRAPHIC: Photos: F. W. Daily, Anesthesiologist -- "I've thought of moving to another country. I'm considering Costa Rica for my wife and me. If I live another 10 years, it's going to be economically unfeasible to live in this country. These politicians think they're a law unto themselves."; Everett Toney, Shipping company official -- "I've actually gotten to the point where I've considered not participating, not voting, this year."; Pamela Snelling, Bank officer -- "They're on an ego trip. They sit around playing power games with each other." (Photographs by Paul Suszynski for The New York Times) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; SAVANNAH (GA); UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS POLITICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ETHICS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); HOG & PIG FARMING (51%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L TOM HANKS (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



244 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
Pataki Stresses Efficiency and Leadership

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

 BODY:
State Senator George E. Pataki, the Republican candidate for governor, contends that New York State has an anemic economy, crime-ridden streets, a meddlesome government and property taxes that are driving its residents away.
In making that bleak diagnosis during a two-hour interview with reporters and editors of The New York Times on Friday, Mr. Pataki advocated sweeping away 12 years of Democratic policies under Gov. Mario M. Cuomo that he said had engendered high taxes, crushing welfare costs and burdensome regulations. 
 Beyond his prescriptions for deep tax cuts and the death penalty, Mr. Pataki outlined his vision for a government that would be smaller and more efficient without being less humane.
But he also argued that the race is as much about effectiveness as ideas. He should be elected, he said, because he has the energy and leadership skills to push new policies through a divided Legislature and tame a bloated bureaucracy. Three terms in office, he declared, have clearly demonstrated that Mr. Cuomo does not.
Of the Governor, Mr. Pataki said: "He says he didn't do enough good things in the first three terms. He's right. But that's no reason to say that there's going to be a fourth term."
In that comment and at several other points, Mr. Pataki was responding directly to remarks by Mr. Cuomo in an interview with The Times on Sept. 26. Both candidates were invited for open-ended sessions; Mr. Cuomo appeared for 5 hours and 15 minutes, while Mr. Pataki stayed 2 hours.
Like Mr. Cuomo, Mr. Pataki brought along several aides who occasionally slipped him hand-scribbled notes. And, like the Governor, Mr. Pataki dominated the session, showing a command of issues ranging from civil rights law to taxes, mixing folksy anecdotes with feisty retorts and providing detailed explanations of many of his positions.
On the stump he can appear wooden and constrained, but in the interview he was enthusiastic and animated, on several occasions shouting, "Aha!" He tartly corrected a questioner who referred to Peekskill, his birthplace, as a town instead of a city.
And he cast barbed asides at Mr. Cuomo, referring to the Governor's interview at The Times as a "filibuster" and, when accused of sidestepping a question, saying, "You mean Mario Cuomo didn't dodge any questions?"
Having been campaigning in a close race on often hazily defined pledges to reduce taxes and crime, Mr. Pataki broke some new ground in the interview when he was pushed to explain how he would pay for his proposal to cut $5.6 billion in income taxes.
For the first time in the campaign, he said he would seek to reduce the soaring cost of Medicaid, the health-care program for the poor that will cost the state $5.9 billion this year, by cutting nonessential services, though he provided few details. "It's absurd somebody can get a hair transplant paid for by Medicaid," he said. He also said he would consider imposing time limits on welfare for able-bodied, childless adults if other means of controlling welfare spending failed.
Under repeated questioning, Mr. Pataki steadfastly defended his economic projections as conservative, saying his tax cuts could be financed through normal revenue growth and painless belt-tightening -- assumptions that many independent economists have questioned.
"I believe we can do it without cutting services in a way that people are going to look and say, 'My God, I've lost this service,' " he said.
When asked whether he would postpone tax cuts if confronted with a budget deficit, as one of his models, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, has said she may do, he bluntly replied, "No." He was confident, he said, that tax cuts would have a "supply-side impact" and create jobs.
But Mr. Pataki hedged when asked whether he would exempt one of his priority areas, education, from a spending cap he has promised to impose on most of the budget. "It depends on our success in other areas," he said. "We want to provide more support for the schools so that they can start taking the burden off the property taxpayer."
Mr. Pataki said his political patron, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, would not play a special role in his administration. "What I owe him is what I owe every New Yorker," Mr. Pataki said somewhat snappishly of the man who shepherded his nomination through the State Republican Convention in May. "I'll listen to him. When I agree with him, I'll do what I think is right. When I disagree with him, I'm going to tell him."
As for his opponent, Mr. Pataki and his aides revisited a longstanding complaint that Mr. Cuomo has used state resources to abet his re-election effort. They cited flights on state aircraft to what they called campaign destinations and the use of the state budget office to critique Mr. Pataki's tax-cut plan. The Pataki campaign has also criticized Mr. Cuomo for bringing aides on the public payroll to his interview at The Times last month.
Throughout the interview on Friday, Mr. Pataki scattered words of praise for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican who has thus far declined to endorse anyone in the race for governor. Mr. Pataki said the Mayor had proved effective in cutting spending, fighting crime and improving New York City's quality of life. He said he would support Mr. Giuliani's efforts to gain greater control over the city school budget.
But he would not pledge to increase the city's share of state school aid, as Mr. Giuliani and mayors before him have sought, saying he would first evaluate the total aid package to the city, which includes welfare and transportation funds. "You want to take one particular element and say, 'Is this fair?' " he said. "You can't."
Mr. Pataki defended capital punishment, the issue on which his differences with Mr. Cuomo are perhaps sharpest, as a deterrent to crime and also a reasonable form of justice. Citing the World Trade Center bombers, he said a terrorist who kills "has forfeited his right to live, and we, as a society, have the right to take that person's life."
He said Mr. Cuomo's proposal for sentences of life without parole for three-time felons would be a "perverse incentive" for murder without capital punishment. Two-time felons, he contended, would be more likely to kill a police officer rather than face capture and life behind bars. "You have to couple three-strikes-and-you're-in with the death penalty," he said.
Mr. Pataki, who once opposed abortion and is now accused by the Cuomo campaign of being "multiple choice" on the issue, described the evolution of his views by saying he weighed the competing rights of a woman and an unborn fetus. "I think the right of the woman prevails and that's why I would protect the woman's right to choose, period," he said.
He said he had repeatedly voted against Medicaid financing of abortions for poor women because he wanted the program to include mandatory family counseling. But he said that if elected governor, he would not try to restrict Medicaid funds for abortion, even if the Legislature blocked his counseling proposal.
Mr. Pataki explained his opposition to legislation that would extend civil rights protections to homosexuals on legal, not moral, grounds. He said employers would have difficulty defending themselves against accusations of discrimination because there are no reliable statistics showing the percentage of homosexuals in the general population. And he said the bill might have the unintended effect of forcing employers to lay off workers who have concealed their homosexuality to protect the jobs of others who are openly homosexual.
Asked about his credentials for being governor, Mr. Pataki said his three years as Mayor of Peekskill had given him a better understanding of local government than Mr. Cuomo had when he was elected. Asked what legacy he would like to leave if ekected governor, he said, "I want my four kids to stay in New York."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; MEDICAID; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ABORTION ; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HOMOSEXUALITY; WELFARE (US); TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT ; DISCRIMINATION; INCOME TAX GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MEDICAID (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); MAYORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); ABORTION (59%); HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) ; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) GEORGE E PATAKI (97%); MARIO M CUOMO (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



245 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
Pataki Offers a Vision for New York

 BODY:
Senator Pataki was asked to sum up what qualifies him to be governor.
Q. You were the Mayor of a small town --
A. City. 
 Q. Excuse me, city -- a small city, a minority member of the Assembly and then, most recently, a junior member of the majority in the Senate. What is it about all of that experience that qualifies you to be the Governor?
A. . . . I have experience in the state government, and I know the state government and I know it well. And I know where the problems are and how we can change things in the state government.
I have experience in local government, which Mario Cuomo didn't have before he went into the Governor's office, and I think that's one of the reasons why we have seen things like the cost shifts and the mandates imposed on local government, because he hasn't been there on the other side trying to balance a budget and trying to deal with impositions coming from other levels of government.
I've been a lawyer in the private sector and run a small business, so I think I have the experience in the state government, in local government, in the private sector and, more importantly, I have the ideas that I believe are necessary to move this state forward so that when we're talking four years from now New York State is not at the top of the list with an overwhelming, disproportionate number of job losses, but that we're up at the top of the list in creating jobs and opportunity and confidence in the future. . . .
Q. What would you like your legacy to be?
A. Specifically, it would be someone who turned around this state's economy to where we started to create jobs and opportunity and we're No. 1 in job creation instead of No. 1 in job losses; where we lowered the tax burden on the people of this state so they could afford to stay in their homes and afford to do business here in New York; where we restored safety to the streets, and the schools and the homes so that people in the communities didn't feel that they were under an unfair risk of being victims of violent crime; where we have schools that instead of being, I think it's 46th or 47th in the dropout rate, where we were again No. 1 in educational excellence.
If there's one thing this thing comes down to: I'm a New Yorker. I grew up in Peekskill. This state gave me the best this state has to offer: a great public education, the chance to go to a fine college, the chance to work for one of the best firms down on Wall Street, and that's what this state has represented for generations of people from around the country and from around the world. They come here for hope and opportunity and the chance to build a better life for themselves and for their children and their families.
If there's any legacy that I want to leave behind, it's I want my four kids to stay in New York, to go to school in New York, to get a job in New York, to get married and have children and a family in New York. And I want to be able to visit them here in New York instead of going down to North Carolina or Atlanta and visiting them there because that's where they thought the opportunity was.
And people want -- people, I think, in this city and state, have a tremendous commitment to New York and believe it's a special place. And it is a special place. But we can make it a better place for everyone again, I truly believe that.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George E. Pataki celebrating his victory in the Republican gubernatorial primary with his wife, Libby. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); JOB CREATION (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); VIOLENT CRIME (60%); TAX RELIEF (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



246 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:
PATAKI STRESSES LEADERSHIP AND CHANGE
State Senator George E. Pataki, the Republican candidate for governor, contends that New York State has an anemic economy, crime-ridden streets, a meddlesome government and property taxes that are driving its residents away.
 In making that bleak diagnosis during a two-hour interview with reporters and editors of The New York Times, Mr. Pataki advocated sweeping away 12 years of Democratic policies under Gov. Mario M. Cuomo that he said had engendered high taxes, crushing welfare costs and burdensome regulations. A1. 
 The deadlines for registering to vote in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut for the Nov. 8 general election are approaching. B6.
Senator Pataki addressed the congregation of the Abyssinian Baptist Church and spoke of the need for jobs, health care and economic revitalization in the Harlem community. B6.
 
DOCTOR USES DRUGS FOR ABORTIONS
The so-called abortion pill from France, RU-486, is still illegal in this country, but an alternative drug treatment has become available for $500 in New York. Richard Hausknecht, a gynecologist and longtime abortion-rights crusader, says he has used two drugs already on the market -- but approved for other purposes -- to perform more than 100 abortions without
surgery. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
WOMAN IS RAPED AND MAN IS BEATEN
A couple's evening out ended violently near an abandoned Brooklyn pier when three men beat the man and raped the woman and then stole their car, the police said.
 The couple had just parked near the pier, on the border of Williamsburg and Greenpoint, when they were attacked by three men who appeared to be in their 20's. B6.
 
DO VOTERS CARE WHO ENDORSES WHOM?
Given all the hullabaloo, you'd think the outcome of New York's race for governor depended on political endorsements. When former Mayor David N. Dinkins finally announced his support for Governor Cuomo last week, after months of delicate negotiations, he got the royal treatment.
 And what will Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani decide? Will he cross the divide and endorse a Democrat? Will he support Senator Pataki, a fellow Republican? Or will he, as most political insiders anticipate, hedge his bets and endorse Mr. Pataki unenthusiastically as he winks at Mr. Cuomo?
 The speculation is fevered -- among politicians and the press, anyway. But what about the voters? Metro Matters, B6.
 
KELLY, IN HAITI, SEES BARRIERS TO REFORM
The Haitian police made an effort to clean up the station house before Raymond W. Kelly arrived the other day. But the former New York City Police Commissioner says reforming the Haitian police force is going to take a lot longer and will be a lot more difficult. A8.
 
REGION
 
A FINAL REPORT ON EROSION PLAN
 The final report on a $400 million plan to protect the vulnerable coastal areas of Long Island, New York City and Westchester County was released by Governor Cuomo, but funding remained in doubt.
 The plan stresses the need to protect the public in heavily populated shoreline areas and to retain major recreational areas. To make repairs and prevent future storm damage, the task force called for spending $400 million over five years. It said $119 million had already been appropriated for emergency repairs to barrier beaches. The rest depends on legislative action in Washington and Albany, and in some cases, at the local level. B2.
 
ARREST IS ISSUE IN PENNSYLVANIA RACE
 The arrest of Reginald McFadden of Philadelphia, who was charged with raping and robbing a woman in South Nyack, N.Y., and robbing and fatally stabbing another woman, in Floral Park, L.I., has become a big issue in the governor's race in Pennsylvania, where crime was already the major issue.
 Lieut. Gov. Mark S. Singel, the Democratic candidate, had, as chairman of the state Board of Pardons, recommended the pardoning of Mr. McFadden, a convicted killer serving a life sentence. A15.
Holiday schedule B3
Chronicle B7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); FRANCE (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); FRANCE (78%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); COASTAL AREAS (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



247 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
Companies
 
Executives of Apple Computer and I.B.M. are close to agreeing on a common personal computer standard, industry executives familiar with the discussions said. The intensified talks -- involving Apple's chairman, Michael H. Spindler, and an I.B.M. vice president, James A. Cannavino -- came after rumors that I.B.M. or Motorola might be considering an investment in, or outright purchase of Apple. [Page D1.]
 

The vision behind the merger of Columbia/HCA Healthcare and Healthtrust is simple and alluring. The bigger the network, the easier it is to drive down costs and provide every health service that patients might need. The pivotal word is network. [D1.]
 
The Economy
 
Despite a drag from rising interest rates, pockets of strength are keeping the United States economy buoyant, raising the possibility that a predicted slowdown might not occur until well into next year. The most recent in a parade of bullish statistics are last week's reports of a drop in the unemployment rate to its lowest level in four years and a sharp rise in industrial production. [D1.]
 
The baseball strike could cost as much as $280 million in merchandise sales, and many retailers are postponing orders for goods, uncertain whether play will resume in the spring. [D1.]
 
International
 
Should Persian Gulf tension erupt into fighting, oil analysts do not expect shortages but do think that prices will rise, perhaps sharply. If Kuwait lost its ability to produce the two million barrels a day it now pumps, other oil nations in the Gulf Cooperation Council could compensate for the losses. [D1.]
With the victory of Fernando Henrique Cardoso in Brazil, diplomats and foreign executives predict that Brazil, Latin America's largest economy, will become a powerful magnet for investment and exports. [D3.]
 
The Media Business
 
Random House's goal at the Frankfurt Book Fair has been to make Gen. Colin L. Powell, retired Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as exciting an international prospect as possible, so it will not have to earn back the $6.5 million advance on his autobiography exclusively from American sales. The general hopes to finish the book in the spring. [D1.]
 
Teen-age magazines, long one of the most stable categories in the industry, are involved in a game of musical chairs. [D5.]
 
Electronic experimentation by daily newspapers is in full swing across the country, the Newspaper Association of America says. William Glaberson: Press Notes. [D5.]
 
Rivals of the Fox network said it was trying to gain advantage with generous words toward the communications lawyer for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and by assisting minority ownership in broadcasting. [D5.]
 
The Metropolitan Opera is facing a marketing challenge as it introduces a subtitling system for its productions. Its advertising approach is likely to inch, however slowly, toward that of the New York City Opera. Advertising. [D6.]
 
Today's Columns
 
Fees rise at the Patent Office, stirring complaints that inventors are subsidizing the U.S. budget. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]
 
Today is reality-check time for Biogen, which will release the data from trials of its genetically engineered beta interferon in slowing the effects of multiple sclerosis. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (95%); HCA (NYSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (95%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (95%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (95%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (57%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (57%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (57%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); GULF STATES (90%); KUWAIT (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (95%); HCA HOLDINGS INC (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); GULF STATES (90%); KUWAIT (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); HEALTH CARE (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); OPERA (71%); RETAILERS (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); BOOK PUBLISHING (67%); BASEBALL (66%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (62%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



248 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: LABOR;
Bitter Strike in Indiana Echoes in Massachusetts

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MARION, Ind., Oct. 8

 BODY:
A dot in a sea of pancake-flat farmland, this northern Indiana factory town has handed Senator Edward M. Kennedy an unexpected opportunity to try to tip the balance in the tightest campaign of his 32-year Senate career.
Mr. Kennedy's Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, is an entrepreneur who boasts of having created 10,000 jobs at 60 companies. But here, workers at an Ampad stationery factory that Mr. Romney and fellow investors bought in July went on strike in September. Management has shed 41 of 265 blue-collar jobs, cut wages, tripled some workers' health insurance payments, abolished most of their seniority rights and junked the prior management's union contract, which had two years to run. 
 The Romney campaign does not deny that cutbacks were made at the factory, but it says management has done all those things so the company can survive and grow. It further says its representation of the number of jobs created takes account of a few losses at companies Mr. Romney has had to reorganize.
Still, the workers' accusations of callous ownership plays neatly into the themes being used by Senator Kennedy, a strong supporter of labor from a heavily unionized state who also happens to be the chairman of the Senate Human Resources and Labor Committee. To make the issue vivid, a group of five people from Marion who are either on strike or have been laid off went to Massachusetts this week to air their gripes. And since late last month, Mr. Kennedy has been flooding local television with 30-second commercials featuring anguished employees in Marion.
"I'd like him to show me where these 10,000 jobs that he created are," a worker asks in one commercial.
Another says, "I'd like to say to the people of Massachusetts: 'If you think it can't happen to you, think again. We thought it wouldn't happen here, either.' "
The campaign's new focus on labor's woes illuminates issues reaching far beyond Marion, a town of 40,000 about 65 miles northeast of Indianapolis.
By most accounts, Mr. Romney, whose investments include large holdings in Staples, the office supply chain; the Duane Reade drug store chain in New York, and Totes, the maker of boots and umbrellas, has a knack for building businesses.
Among his big investors are leading universities, including Yale, Princeton, Stanford and Notre Dame, which have entrusted him with $300 million of their endowment funds. But in making those endowments grow, Mr. Romney and his 11 partners have become masters of the brutal job economy of the 1990's, resisting unions and holding the costs of labor close to the bone.
Long before the news of the strike, unions chose to overlook Senator Kennedy's one noteworthy break with them, his vote in support of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which they contend will drive jobs to Mexico from the United States. "He's probably working people's biggest supporter in the Senate," said Candace Johnson, a spokeswoman for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Losing him would be another important setback in labor's long-waning fortunes, and the strike has raised their hopes that he can hold on to office.
On State Road 18, on the fringe of town and across the road from a vast General Motors automobile body stamping plant, sits the Ampad Corporation, where the factory has all but closed. Ampad's principal owner is Bain Capital Inc., a Boston-based investment company whose founder and chief executive is Mr. Romney, now on leave.
In the five weeks since the strike began, not one member of the United Paperworkers Local 154 has been willing to cross a picket line at the plant, which makes file folders, index cards, legal pads and while-you-were-out pads. The workers are getting by on $60 in strike benefits a week.
"We're effectively shut down," said Charles Hanson 3d, the chairman of Ampad, from his headquarters in Dallas.
Those on the picket line are indifferent to the political implications of their strike. "They don't care about us, Democrats or Republicans, both of them," said Cindy Smith, 42, a file folder packer whose pay dropped from $9.97 to $7.88 an hour. "If Romney cared, he would come straighten us out. If Kennedy cared, he'd come find out what's happening."
Randy Johnson, 40, Local 154's top officer at the plant, said, "We kind of look at each other and say, 'What have we done?' " In July Mr. Johnson was demoted from slitting machine operator, at $10.04 an hour, to file folder packer, at $2.16 less.
When it was discovered that Mr. Romney was one of Ampad's owners, a Kennedy film production crew came out to interview workers. And now one picketer's sign proclaims, "Romney Union busters not welcome in union country." Another's says, "Romney creates jobs in Massachusetts, loses jobs in Marion."
"I don't know nothing about Ted Kennedy," said Jerry Rayburn, 25, who puts glue bindings on scratch pads and whose pay dropped by $1.83 from $9.71 an hour. "All I care about is going after Mitt Romney so we can get back to work. We're not asking for a penny more. We just want what we had."
The extent of the pay cuts is a much disputed issue. Mr. Hanson says the average worker earns $10.50 an hour -- 6 cents less than at the time of the takeover. But the union contends that workers lost 97 cents an hour.
Employees here say their problems began on July 5, when they received a memorandum telling them that Smith Corona, the company that had owned the plant, had sold it to Ampad.
At a meeting with Ampad management that day, they were presented with new wage schedules, work rules and management prerogatives, including the right to consider ability along with seniority in assigning jobs and promotions.
The shifts were altered, and many workers were told to work 12 hours each on Saturdays and Sundays and eight hours each on two other days. Workers' monthly cost of family health insurance would climb to $44, from $15, and deductibles, the amount workers pay before the insurance kicks in, would be raised.
The takeover, they were told, was a purchase of assets -- buildings, machinery, inventories, customer lists -- and the union contract was not among them. But since all the workers were union members, the company has recognized the union, as the law requires. Management and the union have been negotiating a new contract since July 20, but there has been little progress, prompting the strike.
Mr. Hanson says the changes have worked at other Ampad plants since Mr. Romney and his partners bought the company from the Mead Corporation two years ago, and since then Ampad's profits from the other three factories have grown and employment, too, from 728 jobs to 850. "People of entrepreneurial bent took it over and made it successful," he said.
Perhaps, say some workers, but the main beneficiaries of the success are Mr. Romney and his investors. Robin Dollar, a 31-year-old warehouse worker whose $9.62-an-hour wage was cut by 65 cents an hour after the company was sold, said, "I think somebody just wanted to make money at our expense."
In Massachusetts, the two campaigns put these issues in predictable lights. "Here you have a company that finds a way to keep a factory alive," said Charles Manning, an adviser to Mr. Romney, "and a union that says, 'We don't care if what you've done works.' "
Rick Gureghian, the Senator's spokesman, said, "Here's Kennedy standing up for working people, and here's Romney treating people like disposable commodities."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mitt Romney, the Republican candidate for the Senate whose investment company owns the Ampad plant in Marion, Ind., where workers struck over pay cuts. (Associated Press); The striking workers at the Ampad plant in Marion, Ind., have given Senator Edward M. Kennedy ammunition in his difficult re-election race against Mitt Romney, an entrepreneur whose business strategy at the Ampad stationery factory has led to a bitter strike. (Mary Ann Carter for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (52%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); AMPAD CORP DUANE READE DRUG STORE CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); AMPAD CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; ; MARION (INDIANA); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); INDIANA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; STRIKES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS ; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES LAYOFFS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (76%); FOOTWEAR MFG (73%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); ENDOWMENTS (63%); RETAILERS (60%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ROMNEY, MITT; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); KILBORN, PETER T MITT ROMNEY (92%); TED KENNEDY (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



249 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: No Shortage Of Oil Seen If Gulf Erupts

BYLINE: By SUSAN ANTILLA 

 BODY:
Should the suddenly tense Persian Gulf erupt into fighting, energy analysts say they do not expect any shortages of oil but do think prices will rise, perhaps sharply.
Even if Kuwait lost its ability to produce the two million barrels a day of oil that it currently pumps, others in the Gulf Cooperation Council of which it is a part could pick up the slack, Mehdi Verzi, an oil analyst at Kleinwort Benson in London, said yesterday. "There is enough capacity within the gulf area to counter a big drop in production in Kuwait," he said. 
 Yet it is virtually certain that fighting would nudge up prices. "If we had another war, there would be at least a short-term upward push in prices, just as we had in 1990," said Marion Stewart, an energy economist at National Economic Research Associates in White Plains. In the worst case, crude oil prices could reach as high as $25 a barrel this week from last week's close of less than $19, Mr. Stewart said.
Crude oil prices reached their highest levels in two months during trading on Friday, reacting to the news that Iraqi forces had neared the border of Kuwait. But, after reaching $18.70 a barrel, crude oil for November delivery closed up only a cent, at $18.26, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
In trading this morning in Singapore, crude oil was up 27 cents a barrel.
Gary Ross, the chief executive of the PIRA Energy Group in New York, said the markets settled down in part because of the perception that Saddam Hussein did not have much room to maneuver -- and thus little room to wreak havoc with the oil markets.
"Iraq is very frustrated, and Saddam seems to be thinking that through intimidation he will get us to ease up on sanctions," which have reduced Iraqi oil output to 500,000 barrels a day from three million, he said. "Part of his problem is that he has no leverage, so maybe he is trying to get leverage through this bluster."
Because the international oil markets have been relatively calm recently, several analysts said, even a war might have only limited impact on prices.
Mr. Verzi said yesterday that even if there was fighting in Kuwait, the markets could remain stable for a number of reasons, including the fact that heating oil inventories in the United States were 10 percent higher than they were at this time last year, when the country faced its coldest winter in 25 years.
Also, Mr. Verzi said, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries "has actually been a stable element in the market in the past year," producing a steady 24.5 million to 25 million barrels a day.
Of the 7.2 million barrels a day of crude oil imported by the United States in the second quarter of the year, only 300,000 barrels came from Kuwait, Mr. Ross of PIRA Energy said.
Yet if the oil experts are notably sanguine about the short term, they note that increasing worldwide demand for oil just as OPEC is producing near its capacity is likely to lead to "a period where producers will be in the driver's seat again," Mr. Stewart the economist said.
If the immediate situation is not quickly resolved, analysts expect to see increasing participation in the oil markets by unsophisticated speculators who will place bets in some trading arenas that are rarely touched by professionals.
Don Fishbach of Fishbach Management and Research, a Cincinnati consulting service to options traders, said small investors on Friday were actively trading in options that were untouched by institutional investors. One of the options based on the American Stock Exchange oil index, which reflects prices of 16 large oil companies, traded 1,290 contracts, compared with an average daily volume of 15, Mr. Fishbach said.
"Institutions don't play these things because they won't plunge into illiquid markets," he said. "So this to me is speculative money."
As the speculators increasingly place bets this week on oil and international politics, analysts are largely convinced that it will be money ill spent on a situation with little immediate impact on supply.
"If Saddam was really going to invade Kuwait, he already would have done so, presumably," Mr. Ross said. "What does all this mean to oil? Not a hell of a lot."
Steven Hanke, professor of applied economics at Johns Hopkins University, said he was concerned that political and economic prognosticators might have become too complacent about the West's ability to quickly defeat Iraq in a conflict.
"Everyone is thinking that we can pop Saddam and get it over in a couple hours," he said. "I think reality is that if we get involved in something over there, it will be a much more drawn-out affair than last time just because we're not prepared."
Mr. Hanke is of the opinion that President Clinton will seize the political opportunity "to get in there and bloody Saddam's nose" in order to appear strong and Presidential going into the Congressional elections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: GULF STATES (95%); KUWAIT (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: GULF COOPERATION COUNCIL AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); NATIONAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH ASSOCIATES INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GULF COOPERATION COUNCIL COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; KUWAIT; PERSIAN GULF; IRAQ; GULF STATES (95%); KUWAIT (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; PRICES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%); IMPORT TRADE (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: ANTILLA, SUSAN SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



250 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Clintons Should Address Health Care One Issue at a Time, Expert Suggest

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9

 BODY:
Health policy experts, including many who advised Bill Clinton over the last two years, say he and Congress should set their sights lower, worry less about the goal of universal health insurance and try to make modest improvements in the nation's health care system next year.
They say two issues are likely to dominate the health policy agenda of the next Congress: proposals to curb the growth of Medicare and Medicaid, and proposals to give states more freedom to pursue their own health care plans. 
 These issues are only pieces of the national health care debate, but they are big pieces. Medicare and Medicaid account for the bulk of Federal health spending, costs that are rising fast. And with the collapse of President Clinton's health care plan and of all efforts to guarantee health insurance at the Federal level, states are clamoring for more authority to tax and regulate the health benefits provided by companies operating within their borders. Large multistate corporations, whose health plans are now generally exempt from such state regulation, say they will resist efforts to give states more flexibility under Federal law.
Regardless of the results of the Nov. 8 elections, and regardless of what Mr. Clinton might propose, the national debate over health care will continue simply because 39 million Americans still lack coverage and health costs are still rising much faster than other consumer prices.
But Drew E. Altman, president of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, which studies health policy, said, "For health reform to succeed in the next Congress, it must be simpler, less scary, less bureaucratic -- a more incremental plan, in bite-size chunks." One area with obvious political appeal is legislation to assure health care for children.
Mr. Altman predicted that "there will be a huge debate about caps and cuts in Medicare and Medicaid, driven by a desire for reduction of the Federal budget deficit, not by a desire to pay for expanded coverage." And "while states can do very significant health care reform," he said, "there are real limits to what they can do without getting exemptions from Federal laws" like the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, known as Erisa.
One purpose of that law, passed in 1974, was to establish a comprehensive, uniform Federal system to regulate pension and health plans so they would not be subject to conflicting state requirements. But now Minnesota, Oregon, Washington, Maryland and other states say they need exemptions from Erisa so they can carry out ambitious plans to expand insurance coverage and control health costs.
"State flexibility will be a big issue next year," said Senator Paul Wellstone, Democrat of Minnesota. "In Congress, you'll see a major effort to permit greater state flexibility."
Mr. Wellstone wants to let states try Canadian-style "single payer" programs of health care financed with taxes. Several states want to require all employers to buy or provide a standard package of health benefits for employees.
Surveying the wreckage of health care legislation on Capitol Hill, many experts said future proposals must rely less on Federal authority and more on market forces already revolutionizing the delivery of health care in the United States.
As a Presidential candidate in 1992 and for a while after his inauguration, Mr. Clinton supported the idea of "managed competition," which combines market forces with Government regulation in the hope that doctors and hospitals will compete for business on the basis of price and quality.
The originators of that idea, far from being distraught over the rejection of the Clinton plan, feel partly vindicated. "Our horse didn't cross the finish line," said Alain C. Enthoven, a professor at Stanford University who is the intellectual father of managed competition. "But our horse was the last one in the running."
Many elements of managed competition were incorporated in the bill drafted by a bipartisan group of senators who called themselves the mainstream coalition. The bill would have given small businesses an opportunity to buy health insurance through regional purchasing cooperatives, and it would have subsidized premiums for low-income people.
Health policy experts say they do not know if President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, have learned what they say are the appropriate lessons from the demise of health care legislation this year.
"I noticed that Hillary Clinton has been meeting with groups that strongly supported her position on health care," Professor Enthoven said. "She ought to be talking to the groups that opposed her. Instead of huddling down with her faithful few, she ought to reach out to those that defeated the Administration and find some common ground with them. She ought to meet with Senators Dole and Chafee and Moynihan and Kerrey of Nebraska and say, 'How can we work out a broadly supported bipartisan plan that will accomplish what the mainstream coalition wanted?' "
Senator Bob Dole of Kansas is the Republican leader. Senator John H. Chafee, a moderate Republican from Rhode Island, led the mainstream coalition. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, a Democrat who is chairman of the Finance Committee, and Senator Bob Kerrey, also a Democrat, frequently criticized the Clinton plan as grandiose and unrealistic.
Over and over, experts on health policy and politics offer the same advice to the President and Mrs. Clinton: if they continue the fight for health care legislation next year, they should start in the center of the political spectrum and build coalitions outward from there.
Lynn M. Etheredge, a health economist who was a consultant to Mrs. Clinton's Task Force on National Health Care Reform, said: "The mainstream proposal is an excellent starting point. It would make life better for the average American. It provides a potential basis for bipartisan agreement. By contrast, if you start on the left wing, you polarize the debate."
Mr. Etheredge, an architect of managed competition, worked this year for Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, in trying to devise a compromise on health care.
The next Congress is widely expected to be more conservative than the Congress that just adjourned. If health care legislation is to have any chance of success, it will have to be very different from what President and Mrs. Clinton proposed last year. Mr. Etheredge said he did not know if the Clintons would be willing to accept such changes.
"They are likely to think that their plan was right and the strategy for selling it was wrong," Mr. Etheredge said. "But they designed an Edsel. If you can't convince the public to buy it, you ought to realize that you have the wrong product."
Even the mainstream coalition bill may prove too liberal and expensive, with too many new taxes and too much Federal regulation, to suit the next Congress. Gloomy Democrats conjure up a vision of what they call "triple negative health care reform" -- Congress might do nothing to expand coverage, might impose strict limits on spending for Medicare and Medicaid and might hold back states trying to adopt comprehensive health programs.
State Representative John F. Cosgrove of Florida, a Democrat who is chairman of the Insurance Committee in the Florida House of Representatives, was depressed after hearing Congressional aides, at a conference of state legislators here in late September, describe their low expectations for Federal action.
"It is indefensible and obnoxious for Congress to refuse to deal with these problems at the national level and not to let us do it at the state level," Mr. Cosgrove said. "I hear only gridlock and grunts in Washington, no positive policy proposals as to how they intend to cover 39 million uninsured Americans."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (91%); MEDICARE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (91%); MEDICARE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICAID; MEDICARE HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); MEDICARE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (79%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUDGETS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); MEDICAID (59%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



251 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: THE KUWAITIS;
As Going Gets Tough, Kuwaitis Go Out to Eat

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: KUWAIT CITY, Oct. 9

 BODY:
With thousands of Iraqi troops just north of the border, Kuwaiti reservists being mobilized and American soldiers on the way, many Kuwaitis are responding to the pressure by turning to one of the most beloved activities in the emirate -- eating.
Restaurants, fast-food outlets, ice cream parlors, pastry shops and candy stores are packed with jittery Kuwaitis, who hope there will be no replay of the 1990 invasion, when Iraqi soldiers sliced through meager defenses and rolled into Kuwait City. 
 In the ubiquitous American franchises, like Pizza Hut, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Baskin-Robbins and McDonald's, the fare that was adopted with such gusto after the liberation is being snapped up as people discuss the latest news.
"We are not that scared," Haytham al-Shaya said as she garnished a half-pound of hamburger meat with ketchup and mustard at a Fuddruckers restaurant, part of a Texas-based chain. "The United Nations is here and the allied forces will protect us, but still we are human. We are nervous, so we come and eat."
To the north, in Saddam Hussein's Iraq, food rations have been cut in half and there are lines for bread and cooking oil. Inflation is rendering the Iraqi dinar worthless, and many on fixed incomes have trouble buying enough for their families. Food has become a daily concern.
But Kuwait, whose oil wealth and small population give it one of the highest per-capita incomes in the world, has no such worries. Obesity has been steadily on the rise since the end of the Persian Gulf war, and Health Ministry officials say that at least half of the population is overweight.
The life-style in the emirate, where most Kuwaitis spend their days ensconced in air-conditioned offices, homes, shopping malls and gas-guzzling American luxury sedans, does not help. The country shuts down from 1 to 4 in the afternoon, and most Kuwaitis go home, eat a large meal and then sleep before returning to work.
Many Kuwaitis have servants, relieving them from much of the housework. And, as in the United States, many people spend evenings channel-surfing through dozens of programs offered by home satellite dishes. Since alcohol is banned, social gatherings, at least in public, often center on food.
But it may not be just the life-style that leads some Kuwaitis to eat too much. A Danish study published this year estimated that a quarter of the adult population suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder, with those who remained here during the Iraqi occupation the worst affected. Excessive eating, many say, has become the most common way to cope with the problem.
Wassimya al-Mutaa, the owner of The Forgotten Woman's Fashion Shop, dropped two lumps of sugar into her coffee as she sat at a table surrounded by racks of roomy dresses and baggy pantsuits. By the door is a large wicker basket full of candy.
"Kuwaitis have been under more stress ever since the invasion," she said, "and the way they respond is to eat. Whenever we go out, even to go shopping, we stop for ice cream and cake. When I get my largest sizes in, they sell out immediately. People are getting bigger and bigger, and many of my largest customers are teen-agers, who watch television and eat junk food all day. I am a big woman, but these girls make me look tiny."
In the last few months, several health clubs and weight-loss clinics have opened. Dr. Mohammed Rable sat at his desk in his clinic at the Dar al-Shifa Hospital and read the label on a bottle of diet pills handed to him by a patient, Sharifa al-Attar. Mrs. Attar, 40, a mother of four, said she had steadily been gaining weight and now hoped to take it off.
"If these make you feel better, you can take them," the doctor said, "but you will still have to begin to diet and get some exercise. They won't solve your problem."
Mrs. Attar replied: "I know. I can spend whole days without moving."
The doctor, who sees patients until 10 P.M., does a brisk business, but he despairs of the habits of Kuwaitis, who he says often lack self-control.
"People don't like the weather, so they don't go out," he said. "They eat fatty meats, full cream and rich desserts. They don't get exercise, and for recreation they eat."
Mia Ponzo, 33, a native of Syracuse, N.Y., who married a Kuwaiti, says she has put on 70 pounds in the 10 years she has been here. Now, she and her friends have formed a group to meet weekly and bring their weight down.
But as a guest turned to leave, she took a tray of chocolates from a table.
"If you are worried about your weight," she said, "just eat the chocolate-covered dates."

GRAPHIC: Photo: To deal with the anxiety created by the buildup of Iraqi troops on their border, many Kuwaitis are turning to diversions like eating. Others, apparently, are dealing with the pressure in other ways, like this man riding a jet ski in Kuwait City. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: KUWAIT CITY, KUWAIT (70%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); PIZZA HUT INC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); KUWAIT CITY, KUWAIT (70%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FOOD; WEIGHT ARMED FORCES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (77%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (77%); RETAIL BAKERIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); OBESITY (77%); TRENDS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); ICE CREAM (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); SEDANS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); RESEARCH REPORTS (61%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



252 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Study Says Military Bases Survive Plan to Shut Them

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9

 BODY:
After three rounds of closing military bases, and with the biggest round still to come, more than one-third of the installations that were supposed to close have managed to stay open in some way, a new study by a business group says.
The operations that survive at 26 major bases that have been ordered shut since 1988 could cost the Government more than $15 billion in the next five years, says an analysis conducted by Business Executives for National Security, a private Washington-based organization that seeks to reduce spending and eliminate waste at the Pentagon. 
 The study, whose results are to be made public on Monday, says the Pentagon has allowed bases to stay open by unnecessarily transferring Defense Department offices and other Federal agencies, as well as reserve military units. In some cases the special commissions that recommended the closings approved the changes in plans.
The study also faults local officials, many of whom fought closings in the first place, for embracing a continued Federal presence rather than trying to rely entirely on commercial projects.
The findings, the most extensive to date on the status of the major military closings, raise questions about the savings the Pentagon has said it expects. The Defense Department has estimated that when all the closings are complete, toward the end of the decade, savings will amount to $4.6 billion a year. Defense Secretary William J. Perry is relying heavily on this money to pay troops, to train them and to modernize weapons in the future.
Three special commissions, established by a law that sought to sidestep the political and bureaucratic tangles that normally arise when military bases are closed, met in 1988, 1991 and 1993. The commissions listed about 70 major installations to close and the recommendations were approved by Congress.
Since 1990, the Pentagon has reduced its forces by about 30 percent, but the number of bases has dropped by only about 15 percent, which means the military is paying for many more installations than it needs, military officials have said.
Yet, Pentagon officials, who say it takes five to six years to shut down a base completely, challenge the new study. They say some bases listed as open in the report are closed or are going to close soon. They also said nine bases were closed in just the last two weeks.
"No one expected the restructuring of one of the world's largest organizations to be easy, quick or smooth," said Joshua Gotbaum, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Economic Security. "But anyone who thinks we're not doing it is just plain wrong."
Carswell Air Force Base in Fort Worth, for example, was ordered closed in 1991. Two years later, a commission approved a Pentagon plan to consolidate several Navy and Air Force reserve units at Carswell. But the study says that after the Government spent $200 million to build hangars and housing, it has failed to bring as many aircraft to the base as had been intended. And the base costs $197 million a year to operate.
In addition, Carswell's hospital was promised to the Bureau of Prisons, so the Pentagon may have to build a new medical center at the base. Closing Carswell would have saved $156 million by 1997, the study says.
But Mr. Gotbaum said the Carswell consolidation had saved money by allowing the closing of three smaller naval air stations and that more changes were under way.
Lawmakers and Pentagon officials have predicted that the 1995 round of decisions, the last one that has been scheduled to date, could identify more bases to close than the previous three combined. The military has an overall goal of shutting down 15 percent of all military installations.
The 74-page report, a copy of which was made available to The New York Times, also criticized the Pentagon's plan to assign 13 new Pentagon accounting offices to bases that are closing. The report said the decision would reduce projected savings by $385 million. Mr. Gotbaum, however, said the Defense Department conducted a detailed cost analysis and found that those bases were the cheapest sites for the centers.
The independent base-closing commissions have won broad acclaim for tackling a difficult political issue in a nonpartisan way, exactly what Congress intended when it wrote the law establishing the panels. Just last week, the Senate approved the appointment of Alan J. Dixon, a former Democratic Senator from Illinois, as chairman of the 1995 panel.
But there has been less scrutiny for what happens to bases after the commission's recommendations are adopted. An earlier law, written in 1949, gives the Pentagon and other Federal agencies first dibs on using any portion of a base slated to close. Advocates for the homeless can then request parts of an installation to use as shelters. Only after that do local officials get the opportunity to develop bases into civilian airports, commercial offices or other uses.
This year President Clinton issued new interim rules intended to speed the transfer of military property to communities and help create more jobs in those areas. But some experts said the transition to commercial use from military base was slow and checkered with pitfalls. "My impression is that examples of successful conversions are few and far between," said Wayne Glass, a senior analyst with the Congressional Budget Office.
Independent experts who have reviewed the business organization's report quarrel with some of its specific examples, but praise the effort to assess the total savings achieved in the closings.
"We have continued to tell the Defense Department they should reveal to the taxpayers the full costs to the Government," said Donna Heivilin, director of defense management and NASA issues for the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress.
"This kind of information needs to be exposed and public needs to know about it," said Ms. Heivilin, who is the author of an accounting office report on the status of installations in the 1988 and 1991 rounds that will be issued later this month.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "ADDING IT UP: Still Running, Still Costing" shows list of various bases and how much it would cost to keep them open five years beyond their scheduled closing date. (Source: Business Executives for National Security)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (70%); 

CITY: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS EXECUTIVES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY (ORGN) FORT WORTH MORTGAGE (50%); BUSINESS EXECUTIVES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS EXECUTIVES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY (ORGN) BUSINESS EXECUTIVES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (70%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MILITARY BASES (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); APPROVALS (88%); AIR FORCES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (64%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



253 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Holding the Slowdown at Bay

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Despite the drag from rising interest rates, pockets of strength are keeping the American economy buoyant, raising the possibility that a widely predicted slowdown might not occur until well into next year.
While most forecasters say that economic growth is slowing, a parade of bullish statistics suggests otherwise, the latest being last week's reports of a drop in the unemployment rate to its lowest level in four years and a sharp rise in industrial production. Numerous stories from Corporate America reinforce the impression left by the data. 
 "The momentum is definitely in a positive direction," said Timothy McKenna, director of investor relations at the Union Camp Corporation, a major supplier of linerboard used in making cardboard shipping boxes. The demand for these boxes is so great across America that linerboard prices have risen to $420 a ton from $285 last fall. They had dropped steadily since 1989, and these are the first increases since then.
Wall Street has greeted the bullish statistics with the expectation that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates again to force slower economic growth, and thus reduce the risk of a sharp rise in inflation. But what the central bank might actually do is not known -- and probably not yet decided.
The pockets of economic strength -- including automobiles, home construction, bank lending, disposable income and exports -- first showed themselves last year, while interest rates were low. Falling rates for auto loans and mortgages, for example, produced booms in auto and truck sales and in home construction that continue today.
The lower rates also led to a wave of mortgage refinancings, which suddenly freed $100 billion a year in mortgage payments for other spending or to pay off new loans -- just as banks became aggressive lenders again. This lending, to business and consumers, continues to grow week after week, so much so that Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, in a speech on Saturday warned that some of the loans were riskier than they should be.
Another pillar of economic strength has been the rising income of American workers -- not from big raises but from record levels of overtime pay and from the salaries going to the five million jobholders who have been added to the nation's work force since early last year. And with more jobs has come more public confidence.
"Early in the current recovery, optimism would rise and then fall back again because of an underlying sense of uncertainty," said Richard D. Curtin, director of the University of Michigan's Consumer Surveys. "That really has changed. There is a sense that the expansion is durable and the people we survey are less fearful of losing their jobs and more willing to spend."
Vehicle sales and home construction are the two most important pockets of strength. They are huge industries that reach out to tens of thousands of suppliers. For example, Phelps Dodge Industries, whose products include wiring and truck wheels, is operating its American plants at full capacity and employment is back at the 1989 level of 5,000, after having fallen to 4,500.
Similarly, TRW Inc.'s booming automotive business, particularly airbags, is offsetting declines in its military and space operations. "Five years ago we did not make airbags," James Christy, a vice president, said.
With home construction and home sales well above last year's levels, appliance manufacturers like General Electric and Whirlpool are prospering, and so are retailers like Pier 1, a nationwide home furnishings chain. Sales are particularly good in Western states benefiting from the migration of people and companies from California, said Clark Johnson, Pier 1's chairman.
Like the building of the railroads in the 19th century, but on a much lesser scale, all the construction activity involved in the migration generates activity that makes the economy expand. But clothing sales, a small operation at Pier 1's 640 stores, are way down this year.
"When people are in a big-ticket buying frenzy, purchasing homes and cars, that takes a lot of firepower and other things tend to take second place," Mr. Johnson said.
Weak clothing sales, not only at Pier 1 but at retailers everywhere, are offsetting the pockets of strength. Rising interest rates are a more significant problem. They appear to be gradually dampening demand for new housing, autos and trucks. Rates on 30-year mortgages and 5-year car loans are nearly two percentage points higher than they were last October. While vehicle sales and home construction are still very strong, in August and September they fell below the peak rates reached late last spring -- supporting the view of 50 prominent forecasters surveyed monthly by Blue Chip Indicators that economic growth is slowing.
Vehicle sales, which reached an annual rate of 16.3 million in March, declined to 15.3 million last month. And spending on home construction, after rising to a peak of $197.5 billion, at an annual rate, in May, from $173 billion in the summer of 1993, fell back to $191 billion by last August.
"The family housing market in terms of actual construction is clearly moving down," said David F. Seiders, chief economist of the National Association of Home Builders.
Auto executives are more optimistic. They say car and truck sales will rise again this fall. But a fourth of the car sales are, in fact, leases, usually for two years at low monthly payments. The payments are low because the industry assumes that at the end of the two years, the vehicles can be sold as used cars for 70 percent of their value when they were new.
"Right now the used-car market is extremely strong," said Tom Webb, chief economist at the National Association of Automobile Dealers. "But the industry is gambling on the future."
Exports, on the other hand, seem to have a bright future, particularly machinery sales abroad. With the dollar weak, exports have slowly risen to more than $40 billion a month. That has certainly helped companies like the Bison Gear and Engineering Company in St. Charles, Ill. It makes gears for motors that go mostly into restaurant dishwashers, rotisseries and other commercial kitchen equipment. Sales are up 35 percent in the last year, to $35 million, and the staff has grown to 175 from 150, said Ronald D. Bullock, the chief executive.
"We had been working people on overtime and we did not want to burn them out," he said.
Exports now represent 5 percent of Bison's sales revenue, up from zero three years ago. Fast-food chains like McDonald's, opening outlets in Europe, have turned to American companies for equipment, finding them to be lower-priced than Japanese and Belgian suppliers, Mr. Bullock said. Aside from the weak dollar, Bison's growing efficiency makes this possible, he said.
Feeding the auto and housing booms are the rising amounts of money now available to many households. The average hourly wage has not kept up with inflation for most workers, but overtime pay is at record levels. And the addition of five million jobs since January 1993 has meant five million new salaries, including 239,000 in September, when the unemployment rate fell to 5.9 percent from 6.1 percent.
This money has sharply increased the total income of the American population. What Government statisticians call disposable income -- the earnings people have left after taxes -- rose by 5.6 percent for the year ended in August, to $5 trillion, compared with a 4.1 percent rise in August 1993.
Mortgage refinancing and bank loans supplement this income. "I know folks who refinanced two or three times, going from a 30-year mortgage at 12 percent to a 15-year mortgage at 7 percent and still saving $300 a month," said Leland M. Stenehjem Jr., president of the First International Bank and Trust Company in Fargo, N.D.
The total saving of $100 billion a year, by some estimates, was diverted to spending or to financing personal loans and credit card spending. And banks, having spent the early 1990's investing heavily in Treasury securities, found they could make more money by switching back to aggressive lending. Bank loans have been rising ever since.
But two problems might be on the horizon. One involves households with variable rate mortgages -- 25 percent of all mortgage holders. With interest rates up, their mortgage payments will rise as annual adjustments are made. And the rise will offset some of the $100 billion gained from the refinancing.
The aggressive bank lending, particularly to support credit card debt, is another area of incipient concern.
"Consumer delinquencies are the lowest they have been in 20 years," said James Chessen, chief economist at the American Bankers Association. "But I think that by the end of this year, we will see these delinquencies rise again, because of the volume of credit and the willingness to make loans that a year ago were considered too risky."
 

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Construction" shows new residential and nonresidential construction spending at constant 1987 prices from '91-'94.; "Bank Lending" shows total loans and leases by commercial banks from '91-'94. (Source: Datastream) (pg. D1); "Disposable Income" shows quarterly at an annual rate from '91-'94. (Source: Datastream); "Steady Growths in Export" shows merchandise exports at constant 1987 prices from '91-'94. (Source: Datastream) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNION CAMP CORP (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INCOME; AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INFLATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (74%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); OVERTIME (68%); MARKETING SURVEYS (67%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (65%); DISMISSALS (61%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



254 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Takes His Campaign Message to Harlem Church

BYLINE: By CHARISSE JONES 

 BODY:
For State Senator George E. Pataki, the campaign trail led yesterday to Harlem, where he addressed a Baptist congregation and spoke of the need for jobs, health care and economic revitalization in the community beyond the church's doors.
Members of the Abyssinian Baptist Church said they were not surprised that the visit of a gubernatorial candidate coincided with the approach of Election Day. 
 But in a season of political discontent, in which many black voters say they feel taken for granted by the Democratic Party, Mr. Pataki's message was politely received. And several at the church said the fact that the Republican bothered to come at all was significant and made him worthy of consideration, if not, ultimately, their support.
The Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d, Abyssinian's pastor, has yet to endorse either Mr. Pataki or Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. Though he plans to meet with Mr. Cuomo sometime this week, he has in the past called the Governor "arrogant." And yesterday he said the incumbent had not visited the church in his 12 years in office.
"If our votes are so important, if we carry the margin of victory, then those who want our vote ought to respect us enough to come and talk to us," Mr. Butts said to resounding applause, moments before he introduced Mr. Pataki.
Mr. Pataki, who attended the morning service with his wife, Libby, had come with prepared notes. But when he finally addressed the church, he put the notes aside.
Mr. Pataki spoke of the common desire by all New Yorkers to have access to quality education, good health care and a decent place to live. Though he offered few specifics, Mr. Pataki said that as Governor he would work to insure Harlem residents had a chance at those dreams.
Every parent has the same aspirations for a child, he said: "that that child can get a decent education; that that child can get adequate health care." He continued, "And yet in Harlem right now we have a health-care crisis, we have an explosion in infant death. Unacceptable."
Mr. Pataki also spoke of the need to help the economy, saying he would support opening a community-based bank in Harlem to foster redevelopment.
He ended his short address by quoting a verse from the gospel of Matthew. "By their fruits ye shall know them," he said. "I pledge to you, you will know me by my actions, and those actions will bear fruit."
Among those who listened to Mr. Pataki's message at the church was the Rev. Al Sharpton, the church's guest speaker, who used his moments at the pulpit to warn Democrats and Republicans alike that black votes are promised to no one.
"We too often keep loyalty to people who are not showing loyalty to us," Mr. Sharpton said. He added, "There's a peculiar political marriage between the Democratic Party and the black community. And we have been abandoned wives."
But Mr. Sharpton, who formed his own Freedom Party this year partly because he believes mainstream parties have not served blacks well, cautioned that just because some blacks were disenchanted with the Democratic Party did not mean they would automatically throw their support to the Republicans.
"We hope both sides will court us," said Mr. Sharpton, who said he wants to hear more specifics from the gubernatorial candidates before giving his support. "Democrats take us for granted. But Republicans should not take us for fools."
Blacks are a core constituency for Mr. Cuomo, and a large black turnout is considered critical if he is to win a fourth term. But some who have always voted for Mr. Cuomo said yesterday that for the first time in their lives, they are on the fence.
Naomi Henry, 62, said the Democratic voting tradition began in her family in the 1930's, with the election of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the beginning of his New Deal.
But Democrats, from Washington to Albany, have not upheld their end of the bargain, she said. Mr. Cuomo has done nothing to help Harlem, she said, adding that she was angered by his lukewarm support for Mayor David N. Dinkins's re-election bid last year. The trouble is, she does not know if she can trust the other parties to be any better.
"I really feel we're being used by all of them," she said outside the church on West 138th Street. "We only see them at this time. It's funny. Our vote means so much today, but not the rest of the year."
James L. Hudson also had many complaints about Mr. Cuomo, He even voted for Lenora Fulani in the Democratic primary, "not because I thought she would win," Mr. Hudson said, "but because I wanted Cuomo to know it wasn't so easy."
But come Nov. 8, he will vote again for Mr. Cuomo, because the Governor dared to ask for one more term and of all the candidates, Mr. Hudson knows him best.
"I'll hold my nose," he said. "It'll be the most painful vote I ever gave to anybody."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ABYSSINIAN BAPTIST CHURCH (MANHATTAN) DEMOCRATIC PARTY (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: ABYSSINIAN BAPTIST CHURCH (MANHATTAN) DEMOCRATIC PARTY (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); BLACKS (IN US) PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); COMMUNITY BANKS (72%); 

PERSON: JONES, CHARISSE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); BUTTS, CALVIN O 3D (REV) AL SHARPTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



255 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: For Brazil, New Praise and Potential

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BRASILIA, Oct. 6

 BODY:
With Fernando Henrique Cardoso's decisive victory in Brazil's presidential elections, foreign diplomats and business leaders predict that Latin America's largest economy will become a powerful magnet for foreign investment and exports.
"You can't put a limit on the possibilities," the United States Ambassador, Melvyn Levitsky, said here, citing Mr. Cardoso's pledges to allow foreign investment in oil, telecommunications, mining and public works. "There are going to be many, many more opportunities for U.S. companies to invest in Brazil and to export to Brazil." 
 Down the street, Ambassador Peter W. Heap of Britain, noted a stream of visiting British executives: "In the next week, I will be seeing here the chairman of British American Tobacco, the chairman of SmithKline Beecham, the pharmaceutical company. The chief executive of Jaguar cars is coming to open showrooms in Sao Paulo and Rio for the first time."
At the French Embassy, the talk was of last week's announcement by Renault to build a factory in Brazil next year capable of manufacturing 100,000 cars a year. And at the German Embassy, the talk was of plans by Volkswagen and Ford to join Brazil's multibillion-dollar rush to expand the country's automobile production.
Five years ago similar praise was heard here when Brazilians elected Fernando Collor de Mello, a more outspoken free-market advocate than Mr. Cardoso. But today's mushrooming of concrete investment plans reflects fundamental differences between the two men and the economic moments.
Mr. Cardoso, 63, a veteran senator from Sao Paulo, the business heartland, will take office on Jan. 1 with a three-party coalition that will have a loose congressional majority. As Finance Minister until last April, Mr. Cardoso started Brazil on the Real Plan, a currency change that has proved to be a successful first step in a long battle against inflation.
Mr. Collor, a former governor of Alagoas state, Brazil's poorest, was elected at age 39 with virtually no formal party support. But he was forced to resign in 1992 after the Brazilian news media and Congress turned against him amid accusations of corruption.
But Mr. Collor's legacy to Brazil was a national course correction, away from controls to free markets.
In the last two years, Brazil's imports have jumped 50 percent, to $30 billion; new foreign investment has doubled, to $23 billion, and foreign reserves have almost doubled, to $43 billion. With the adoption of the new currency on July 1, monthly inflation plummeted, from 45 percent in June to 1.5 percent in September, the lowest since 1973.
"Whoever tries to make decisions against the market is going to fail," Mr. Cardoso said after the election on Monday. He called for foreign joint ventures in Brazilian oil exploration and foreign participation in hydroelectric projects.
The big question now is whether Mr. Cardoso will be able to marshal congressional support to continue the inflation fight. Such support will be needed to change the constitution to allow foreign investment in mining, oil and telecommunications, reorganize the bankrupt social welfare system, shut down bankrupt state banks and transfer health and education responsibilities to states.
"If Brazil can prove successful in stabilizing and restructuring its economy, some investors are predicting that growth in the region could approach Asian proportions," William R. Rhodes, a vice chairman of Citibank, said last week.
Mr. Cardoso's backers think he will have the power to execute the changes. Mr. Cardoso was elected with a near majority in Congress, and with centrists leading runoff races for most state governorships.
Reflecting a new consensus for stability, Luis Inacio Lula da Silva, the main left-wing presidential candidate, said before the elections: "I am convinced that independently of who wins the election, we all have to make a great effort so that inflation never returns to this country."
For the moment, Brazilians are cautiously discarding the inflationary habits of 20 years. With monthly inflation forecast at about 2 percent through the end of the year, Brazilians now pay with cash instead of checks drawn on interest-bearing accounts. In a signal to markets, the Government is lowering telephone, gasoline and postal rates.
"We are betting that inflation will not come back," said Roberto Civita, president of Abril, Brazil's largest publishing group.
Indeed, even if Mr. Cardoso's anti-inflation plan lumbers forward unevenly, there seems to be no stopping investment into an economy that is repeating last year's growth rate of 5 percent. Despite 1993 inflation in four digits, Brazil's top 500 private companies had average growth in profits of 11.6 percent -- the highest increase in 15 years.
Even without constitutional changes, Government officials are exploiting loopholes to open up the economy. Telebras, the state phone company, adopted rules in August that allow partnerships with private companies to install lines, switchboards, cellular and fiber optic systems. Telesp, the Sao Paulo telephone company, is preparing bids for 500,000 new lines. With each line expected to cost $2,000, installation contracts could be $1 billion. Other state companies are following suit, with contracts expected to add up to a further $1 billion.
Officials are abolishing paper work for imports and are allowing more foreign banks and insurance companies to open agencies.
"Over the next two months, we are going to get rid of the bureaucratic garbage surrounding imports," Ailton Barcelos Fernandes, executive secretary of the Trade Ministry, said here. "Brazil's trade opening is absolutely irreversible. We want to import more." He predicted that trade would increase about 14 percent this year, to $72 billion. Government officials saw that increasing to $120 billion in 1996.
Brazil's imports from the United States, growing almost twice as fast as those from any other region, are expected to rise by 25 to 35 percent this year. The United States Commerce Department is expanding its staff in Sao Paulo and opening offices in the industrial cities of Belo Horizonte and Porto Alegre.
"If the reforms are continued, if inflation is kept under control, there is a very big chance that looking back from the end of this century, Brazil could be the big success story," Jeffrey E. Garten, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The election of Fernando Henrique Cardoso as Brazil's President has generated praise for the country's potential as a magnet for foreign investment. Mr. Cardoso spoke at a news conference in Brasilia last week. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BTI (NYSE MKT) (56%); BTI (JSE) (56%); BATS (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (56%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRICES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); EXECUTIVES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); OIL EXPLORATION (71%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (69%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); RESIGNATIONS (63%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (58%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (52%); CORRUPTION (50%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES FERNANDO HENRIQUE CARDOSO (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



256 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 6; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY;
Bettman On Move, But Are The Talks?

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Toronto is not No. 1 on Gary Bettman's itinerary of favorite spots to visit right now. But with little time left to reach an agreement before Saturday, the National Hockey League commissioner will be there today to receive a new proposal from union negotiators.
Bettman would have preferred the bargaining session to have taken place in New York for two reasons: One, Canadian fans seem to be angrier about the absence of hockey during what is supposed to be the hockey season than their counterparts south of the border; two, Bettman has a board of governors meeting scheduled for tomorrow, which means he would have to return to New York and have less time to negotiate if he finds something worth talking about. 
 One person with ties to management said yesterday that the owners expect the union to present a proposal that addresses a lot of issues but doesn't come anywhere near what they feel they need. When Bob Goodenow, the union leader, was asked if the proposal would be more comprehensive than the core issues the two sides have been debating, he said, "We're looking at a lot of issues."
It's possible that Bettman will look for something in the union's move that he can use to justify opening the season Saturday, his designated Opening Night II, even without an agreement.
Bettman announced Sept. 30 that he was postponing the start of the season for two weeks. After meeting with the owners tomorrow, he conceivably could announce that the season will open Saturday night, giving himself and Goodenow a period of, say, 30 or 60 days to reach an agreement. If they fail, his plan could call for a lockout of the players at that time.
Throughout recent negotiations, the two sides have focused on a payroll tax that the owners say would create a needed revenue-sharing pool for low-revenue teams and that the players say would induce the highest-spending teams to reduce their payrolls closer to the league average.
Last week the league added to its proposal a tax on gate receipts that the union has proposed. "Gate sharing is a revolutionary concept in this sport," said Jeffrey Pash, the league's general counsel.
Since last Wednesday, the union has been working on its new proposal, and it could include ideas on rookies salaries, salary arbitration and free agency, issues that also have to be resolved but that have been nudged to the background while the concept of a payroll tax is thrashed out.
Player members of the union's negotiating committee met with Goodenow in Toronto yesterday to go over the proposal. One person close to the union said some players are "more hawkish" than Goodenow, a circumstance that could make it difficult for Goodenow to formulate the kind of proposal that could lead to progress in the talks.
The union's proposal may reflect what appears to be the league's reduction in the amount of money it wants to create for low-revenue teams. In earlier proposals, the league set a $30 million figure, but its latest proposal lowered that figure to $20 million.
"What happened to this being driven by the needs of small-market teams?" the person who talked about hawkish players asked. "Bettman cares about revenue sharing, but most of the owners don't."
The teams considered most in economic need are Winnipeg, Quebec, Edmonton and Hartford, the teams that perhaps not so coincidentally joined the N.H.L. in 1979 as refugees from the World Hockey Association.
The players believe revenue sharing is a cover for what they perceive as the owners' effort to lower salaries. But league officials deny that is their goal.
"We deny flatly, unequivocally, without equivocation, without qualification, that our goal is to have teams reduce their payrolls," Pash said. "It is false. It has never been a part of our proposal. We have offered from the very start of these discussions to guarantee to them a percentage of revenue or absolute dollars that they will receive as a floor what they receive now.
"We're not looking for payrolls to be reduced. We're talking about how money is going to be allocated."
But the teams, Pash said, would like to slow the escalation of salaries. To this point, he added, the players' proposal wouldn't achieve that goal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (NHL); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (93%); DALLAS STARS (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (NHL); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (93%); DALLAS STARS (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; LABOR TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); SPORTS (77%); LOCKOUTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (60%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: BETTMAN, GARY MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



257 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Once, a Penny Saved; Now, a Dollar Charged

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:
A PIECE OF THE ACTION
How the Middle Class Joined the Money Class
By Joseph Nocera
464 pages. Simon & Schuster. $25.
"Over the past two decades, we've been participating in nothing less than a money revolution," writes Joseph Nocera, a business and financial journalist, in his entertaining but uncritical cultural history, "A Piece of the Action: How the Middle Class Joined the Money Class." 
 "Money revolution" is "not a term I use lightly," he continues. "When one recalls what the financial life of the middle class was like 20 years ago -- when thrift was the highest value, when the daily movement of the Dow Jones average had almost no relevance to our lives, when few of us knew what a mutual fund was, much less the distinction between, say, a growth fund and a balanced fund -- it's hard not to conclude that the change has, indeed, been revolutionary."
How did the change come about that has permitted the middle class to spend and invest in a way that once only the wealthy could do? Mr. Nocera traces the change to three major financial innovations: the widespread acceptance of the credit card, which democratized debt; the rise of the mutual fund, which democratized investment, and the coming of the discount brokerage house, which democratized investment strategy.
What spurred these innovations, Mr. Nocera reasons, was a shift in the financial ethos of the average American caused by the great inflation of the late 1970's and early 1980's. The resulting decline in the value of money wiped away the lesson taught by the Great Depression of saving now and spending later, and replaced it with the practice of spending now and paying later, with cheaper dollars. A climate of thrift gave way to one of extravagance.
This shift, along with the arrival of credit cards, mutual funds and discount brokers, built up a pressure that eventually blew away the legal barriers that once separated such entities as banks and brokerage houses, savings accounts and money-market funds. Once these barriers fell, the middle class rushed in to stay.
Mr. Nocera recounts how all this happened in what he aptly describes as a melding of history with journalism. What makes his narrative tick along so effectively, though, is his close-up portraits of figures like Charles Merrill, who dreamed of selling stocks to everyone but failed because he disliked mutual funds; Dee Ward Hock, who evolved the Visa card and made it work; Edward Crosby (Ned) Johnson of Fidelity Management and Research, who thought up the idea of a money-market fund with check-writing privileges, and Charles Schwab, who pioneered the discount brokerage.
The result is particularly absorbing because it describes a series of events that most readers will find as familiar as mashed potatoes, yet it places them in a larger context that is well known only to those who follow the financial pages closely. One minor flaw in the book is, paradoxically, that it tends to get bogged down in good but beside-the-point drama, like the story of Ted and Nina Wang, two Hong Kong stock speculators who immediately after Black Monday, 1987, owed Charles Schwab & Company $84 million in unpaid margin calls. Nina Wang bargained the settlement down to $67 million. Her husband was shortly thereafter kidnapped for a $60 million ransom, $30 million of which is said to have been paid by his wife, yet he was never seen again.
Not that "A Piece of the Action" doesn't elaborate the thesis summed up in its subtitle, "How the Middle Class Joined the Money Class." It does, complete with statistics on the rise of credit-card debt and the huge number of people who stayed in the stock market even after the 1987 crash. Moreover, Mr. Nocera holds that the money revolution he describes is "a force for good" because we "have tools and resources at our disposal that were formerly unavailable to us, and we have been handed possibilities for making money that had always been out of our reach."
The trouble is that he fails to resolve that part of his thesis that involves the spectacular piling up of debt as a consequence of a lingering inflation psychology. Fittingly enough, he cites John Kenneth Galbraith and Alfred L. Malabre Jr. as twin Cassandras decrying economies built on debt, Mr. Galbraith in his 1958 book, "The Affluent Society," and Mr. Malabre in "Beyond Our Means: How America's Long Years of Debt, Deficits and Reckless Borrowing Now Threaten to Overwhelm Us," published three decades later.
Yet he never explores the deeper messages of these books. He states that debt primes the economy but fails to acknowledge that spending money one doesn't have also risks pushing the act of saving it into a future burdened with endless interest payments. The paradigm of his book may well be one Andrew Kahr, a brilliant analyst of the credit-card market, whose ideal customer would take 44 years and $4,950 in interest to pay off a $1,000 loan.
What "A Piece of the Action" never acknowledges is that if marketers like Mr. Kahr had their way, instead of rising into the money class, most of us would sink into the un-money class. As the old song puts it, we'd keep getting another day older and deeper in debt, and we'd owe our souls to the company store.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Nocera (Fred Woodward/Simon & Schuster)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PIECE OF THE ACTION, A (BOOK)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (58%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (88%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (86%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HISTORY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); WRITERS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; NOCERA, JOSEPH JOSEPH NOCERA (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



258 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: IN PERFORMANCE;
CLASSICAL MUSIC

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN 

 BODY:
From Comedy to Cuteness
In a Storybook Setting
New York State Theater
The New York City Opera has an economical property in Lotfi Mansouri's production of "Il Barbiere di Siviglia." The single set, by Desmond Heeley, uses reversible elements so that outdoor scenes give way to indoor ones with quick efficiency. But it has its troublesome aspects. The costumes, blindingly bright and occasionally garish, contribute to the storybook quality that Mr. Mansouri seems to have been after, and Christian Smith's stage direction pushes beyond the bounds of comic opera and well into the territory of late-19th-century operetta. Comedy defers to cuteness, and cuteness quickly grows cloying. 
 The singers on Thursday evening seemed more than happy to ham their way through "Barbiere." This was a familiar approach for Erie Mills, whose portrayal of Rosina was from a generic operetta mold. Still, her soprano is compact and well-projected, and she sang "Una voce poco fa" with considerable charm.
Charles Workman, the Almaviva, began tenuously, but he overcame his initial intonation problems, and in the second act his voice blossomed nicely. Louis Otey's Figaro was suitably virtuosic, but inconsistent. Most of the time he sang with great agility, but he occasionally slurred Rossini's florid lines, negating a principal attraction of the style.
Joseph McKee was a suitably creaky Bartolo, and Carla Wood, a mezzo-soprano in her first season at the house, made a good impression with Berta's second-act showpiece.
Joseph Colaneri conducted without much fire, but William Barto Jones provided some amusingly busy harpsichord flourishes, and there were some lovely guitar accompaniments played by Frederic Hand. ALLAN KOZINN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA (OPERA)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY OPERA

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY OPERA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; REVIEWS OPERA (92%); THEATER (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: KOZINN, ALLAN LOTFI MANSOURI (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



259 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: British Labor's New Look

 BODY:
Tony Blair's promising debut as leader of the Labor Party signals an important turn in British politics. Since the rise of Margaret Thatcher 15 years ago, Labor, Britain's ruling party for most of the 1960's and 70's, has seemed fusty and often irrelevant. Now a revitalized Labor is storming back, with updated policies, a strong lead in the polls and a telegenic young leader. This sharpening of political competition is healthy for British democracy and, hence, welcome to Americans as well.
Mr. Blair benefits from groundwork done by his recent predecessors. Neil Kinnock began revising obsolete policies favoring unilateral disarmament and state ownership. The late John Smith healed internal wounds and reconnected the party with followers who had been alienated by the cultural radicalism of recent decades. But it falls to Mr. Blair, who took over in July, to complete the process of generational and philosophical renewal. 
 At last week's party conference, the new leader got to work. While he has been vague about details -- leading some to call him "Tony Blur" -- his intention to shift the party's emphasis from class enmity and state ownership to social cooperation and humane progressivism is plain. He failed to get the party to drop the traditional call for nationalization from its platform, but came tantalizingly close.
As Bill Clinton knows, New Democrats are not always easy winners. But repositioned Labor is well placed to win back centrist voters whose defection to minor parties like the Liberals and Social Democrats (now merged) helped Margaret Thatcher win huge Conservative parliamentary majorities with only a minority of the popular vote.
Britons still think far more in class terms than Americans do. Labor is, by definition, a party built around the working class. But the suburbanized workers of today's service economy have different interests than their coal-mining and factory-laboring grandparents. They care about well-run and adequately financed social services, decent education and keeping up with Continental living standards rather than state ownership, unilateral disarmament and sympathy with Soviet Russia.
On issues of special interest to the U.S., Tony Blair's Labor is more eager for a Northern Ireland settlement, more enthusiastic about the European Union and more favorable to a comprehensive test ban treaty than John Major's Conservatives.
America's traditionally warm relations with Britain do not depend on which party holds power in London. But the celebrated special relationship forged in World War II is now based more on nostalgia than contemporary reality. Even this, our closest diplomatic bond, needs constant attention and renewal. By modernizing the British political debate, a revitalized Labor Party can significantly contribute to that effort.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR PARTY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR PARTY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DISARMAMENT (74%); NATIONALIZATION (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); COAL MINING (50%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, TONY (MP) TONY BLAIR (91%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



260 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
To Counter Saddam's Ploy

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The first foreign-policy blunder made by Bill Clinton, soon after his election, was about Saddam Hussein. The President-elect told Tom Friedman of The New York Times that as a good Baptist he believed in conversion, and that perhaps the dictator could be dealt with if he acceded to U.N. arms-destruction and human-rights requirements.
Some of us turned purple. That was contrary to the hard-line American position to use sanctions to force the tyrant from power. President Bush had sent an unambiguous message to Baghdad: get rid of Saddam or forget about pumping oil. Clinton's remark offered Saddam room to maneuver. 
 President Clinton found a way out of that gaffe by professing to foresee no way that Saddam could obey the U.N. resolution's requirements and remain in power. Then Clinton exhibited toughness in putting a missile into the window of Saddam's spy chief as retaliation for the plot to assassinate former President Bush.
The hard-line policy has evidently been working. Two weeks ago, the cash-strapped Saddam had to stop subsidizing food prices, which then doubled, causing internal unrest. If he cannot show some promise of ending sanctions, he will be deposed.
That is why the dictator has been appearing to comply with the U.N. inspectors searching for mass-destruction weapons factories. This week, inspector Rolf Ekeus will tell the U.N. that a monitoring system is finally in operation, and Iraq's Tariq Aziz will demand that the U.N. stop starving Iraqi babies (though the Republican Guard is well fed).
Saddam will have support in the Security Council. Russian intelligence chief Yevgeny Primakov is Saddam's longtime ally; Russia will support the lifting of sanctions, if only to make possible the repayment of $6 billion owed Moscow by Iraq. France's Foreign Minister, Alain Juppe, is salivating at the prospect of his nation's resuming business with its best oil source.
France or Russia care little that Saddam continues to try to strangle Iraq's Kurdish minority and starve its Shias, or will surely circumvent arms inspections at the first opportunity; what does cause them to hesitate is Saddam's continued claim of ownership of Kuwait.
Now we come to Saddam's reason for the well-publicized movement of Iraqi troops -- including the Hammurabi division of the Republican Guard spared by the shortsighted men in the Oval Office on March 26, 1991 -- to the Kuwaiti border.
The reason may be that Saddam has observed Clinton in Bosnia, Haiti and North Korea and thinks it may be possible to snatch a couple of islands and make a face-saving deal with a State Department feeling the pressure to out-Carter Jimmy Carter. That's a misreading of geopolitics, but Saddam has been wrong before.
The more likely reason is to create a favorable basis for negotiation of an end to sanctions. He now has the world's attention. Here is his stick-and-carrot strategy:
First, the stick: If sanctions are not lifted now, he will threaten to throw out the U.N. inspectors and begin re-arming. He thinks the world will not make war on him for that; indeed many U.S. editorialists will agree with Moscow and Paris that Saddam was the poor victim of demonizing American hard-liners.
Second, the carrot: If sanctions are lifted to allow his oil to flow, then not only will he allow the inspectors to stay, but he will refrain from once again taking over Iraq's 19th province, which calls itself Kuwait.
Not so stupid. By creating a threat, Saddam makes possible his grand concession: If we will let bygones be bygones, he will not make war. Paris may even extract "recognition" of Kuwait and claim a diplomatic triumph, deserving of instant trade relations.
Here is what Clinton's response should be:
If Saddam moves on Kuwait, that will trigger a fight to the finish: destruction of his forces, a parade in Baghdad, establishment of Kurdistan, war crimes trials, free elections.
If he refrains from invasion but throws out inspectors not only will sanctions be tightened but the U.S. and its allies will "inspect" by national means and will regularly bomb suspected nuclear, germ and chemwar sites.
Hope for Iraqis: If Saddam is overthrown, sanctions will be lifted. Sometimes the only conversion possible is in a baptism of fire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KUWAIT (92%); FRANCE (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HAITI (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KUWAIT (92%); FRANCE (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HAITI (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); STARVATION (87%); DISARMAMENT (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); INSPECTIONS (74%); ASSASSINATION (73%); ESPIONAGE (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); FOOD PRICES (52%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (94%); BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



261 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 4787 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
Pataki on the Record: Excerpts From a Talk On Campaign Issues

 BODY:
State Senator George E. Pataki, the Republican candidate for governor of New York, met with reporters and editors of The New York Times for two hours on Friday to discuss issues in the gubernatorial race and his goals if elected. Here are excerpts from the session.
 
FISCAL MATTERS
 
Taxing and Spending
[Senator Pataki was asked how he will be able to reconcile his campaign promises to cut taxes and control spending while also increasing aid to education and improving other state services.] 
PATAKI First of all, let me say: We are going to control spending because we have to control spending. And it's not something that's unique to government or unique to the state government. Look what Mayor Giuliani has done right here in the last year. He had a $2 billion-plus budget gap. And he didn't raise taxes. He's done it by controlling spending. And he's done it by things like by cutting positions in the central Board of Education. We have outlined a large number of different areas where significant savings can be made.
 Our tax cut plan hinges on two things:
 One is we're anticipating an increase in the revenue of the state. We're anticipating a lower increase than has traditionally or historically been the case, even during Mario Cuomo's two terms.
 And the second is we are going to keep spending below the rate of inflation -- spending increases. That still allows for significant spending increases. It just doesn't allow for the hemorrhaging of money as we saw in Albany this year. This year, state spending in Albany, I think, is up 9.9 percent. It's up over $5 billion. More than three times the rate of inflation. And I don't think there's anybody in this state saying, "Isn't that a wonderful thing that we're finally going to solve New York's problems by having the state government spend a lot more." . . .
 And Mario Cuomo says, well, you can't control spending. You can't cut taxes. You have to. It's being done all around us, not just in New York City. The last three years Westchester County has kept its spending increase to less than 1 percent -- in the last three years. And yet they've had the higher Medicaid costs and the higher social-service costs and mandates imposed by the state government. But they've done it.
 Q. He says you can't cut spending or cut taxes to the degree that you want to.
 A. In other words, he's saying we can't keep spending increases below the rate of inflation. That's his record. He hasn't been able to keep spending increases below the rate of inflation. . . .
 The cumulative record of Mario Cuomo, in his 12 years in office, is that spending has increased at more than twice the rate of inflation. And this year it increased at more than three times the rate of inflation. So I think when he says he can't keep the spending increase below the rate of inflation, I think he's right. He can't.
 But we can and we will because we're going to impose discipline. . . .
 
Welfare Costs
 [Mr. Pataki said he would look at how to make government more efficient.]
 PATAKI . . . Let me just give you one major area where significant cost-savings can be achieved and where Mario Cuomo has failed miserably and you haven't taken him to task on it. And that is the Home Relief population of welfare. The Home Relief population of welfare is a nonfederally-mandated program. It's a program where the states can voluntarily decide: Do we have the program or do we not have the program? We have unending permanent Home Relief benefits. I don't know what other states do, but it's a handful, and none of the surrounding state have that. Home Relief in this state has gone up, under Mario Cuomo, by close to 100 percent. The population is now almost 400,000 people

 	 	 		. . .	 	 [The Senator also said that when Mario M. Cuomo became Governor, 34 percent of the Home Relief population was in workfare programs but that now only 14 percent are.]
 PATAKI Workfare saves money. Take a look at what happened in Westchester County. Their Home Relief costs are down more than 25 percent. I was saying 20 percent. It's more than 25 and closer to 30 percent because they have put in place a successful workfare program. It's not like reinventing the wheel. It's not like we have to, at the state level, come up with some creative concept that hasn't been considered before. It works. It's working right above this city government.
 And yet Mario Cuomo yesterday says, or whenever he sat down for his filibuster, says you've got two alternatives: private-sector jobs, and in private-sector jobs we are doing horribly, or public-sector jobs. No. You have community service. You have workfare, which is precisely what has happened up there. And you're not creating a new bureaucracy. You're not hiring someone on Home Relief at $18,000 a year to become a public employee. You are requiring them, week in and week out, to show up for public service work.
 Q. So, Senator, would you put the entire Home Relief population on workfare

 	 	 		. . .	 	 A. Absolutely.
 Q. Would you eliminate education programs, job training programs
 A. No. And in fact the Westchester program incorporates that. It incorporates job training. It incorporates education. And it has been extremely successful. And there are a number of ways that this works. One is that it reduces the number of people who are living or employed someplace else, so that you have a reduction in the number of people because the ineligibles don't show up. They're not there. Two, you create a sense of self-worth and dignity in the person who is receiving workfare. And I think this is an incredibly important part of this program -- is it's not simply to reduce fraud and save money. It's to create the sense of self-worth and pride that comes from going out and being a working, contributing member of society. . . .
 I was sitting in my Senate office in downtown Peekskill a year or so ago and a man comes in to interview me. He's a student at Mercy College. And he starts asking me about my thoughts on the Senate, and I tell him my ideas. And, as often happens, I start asking him about his life and what he's doing. He was a heroin addict on welfare in the Bronx. And he had decided that if he didn't straighten his life out he was going to die. So what he did is, he said, I have to get out of the neighborhood. Moved to Peekskill. Got off drugs. Was living in Peekskill, off drugs but on welfare. Just sitting home doing nothing.
 Westchester put in place its pride-in-work program. He had to show up. And all of a sudden he realized he had some ability. He had some skills. And when he came in to interview me, he was doing public service work for the city of Peekskill at the Water Department in a job that didn't displace a public employee. And the unions were supportive of the program because they were talked to and it was made clear that the work that would be done would not displace public employees but would be work that otherwise would have never been gotten to. . . .
 When he was interviewing me he was still on public service, he was doing public service work for the city through the county program and he was a student -- I think he was a sophomore at Mercy College, getting A's and B's -- and this person's going to make something of his life. So it's not simply the saving of money, which is obviously very important, but it's also the changing of approaches and attitudes to life. . . .

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Will Cuts Be Painful?
 Q. You're offering people a $6 billion tax cut, we just want to hear you say what is going to be the cost of that on the other side.
 A. The cost of that on the other side is that we are going to keep the rate of spending increase at the state level to less than the rate of increase of inflation over the four-year period. And I don't think that is something that in any way is going to impose hardship on the people of this state. In fact, I think it's going to be a huge relief to the people of this state that we are finally controlling spending, we are finally cutting taxes.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Job Creation
 [The Senator was asked how he explains the strong job growth in New York in the mid-1980's.]
 PATAKI We lagged the national average. We have been 47th in the country in job growth since Mario Cuomo's been Governor for 12 years. And Mario Cuomo says, "Oh, it's Ronald Reagan's fault, it's George Bush's fault, it's the Japanese's fault. And yet, look what I did in the middle 80's." What you did in the middle 80's was, when there was a national boom, you lagged that national boom. We created jobs at a slower rate than the rest of the country. When the recession hit, we lost jobs at a faster rate than the rest of the country.

 	 	 		. . .	 	 Why? Is it because we don't have people? Is it because we don't have capital? Is it because people aren't willing to work here? They don't have the commitment or the risk taking or the entrepreneurial spirit? Of course not. We have the most talented people in this country right here in this state. But they're being killed by overtaxation, overregulation, things like raids on the workers compensation fund.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Aid to New York City
 Q. Senator, while we're talking about school aid, what should New York City's percentage of school aid be?
 A. Well, first of all, let me say that the Mayor should have control over the education system in this city, and it's something the Mayor has wanted. He's right. He's responsible. He's the one who's accountable. He's the one who has to balance the budget and provide the budget, he should be given that authority.
 I know the argument. It's like 34.5 percent of the aid and 37 percent of the students under the formula. But you can't look at it simply under that formula, you have to look at all the different aid packages, the transportation-aid package, it's the Medicaid assistance package, and the city should be treated fairly. The success of the city is critical, absolutely critical to the success of the state.
 Q. Is it treated fairly now in terms of education aid?
 A. I don't think any local government is being treated fairly, whether it's in Medicaid or education. . . .
 It has been the pattern of this administration to have wonderful programs that you can announce, but they have to be paid for by the county government or the city government so that it's the local politician who has to raise the tax and get yelled at.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Limits on Medicaid
 [Senator Pataki was asked whether he would limit some of the services that the state now provides under Medicaid.] PATAKI I think, personally, it's absurd that somebody can get a hair transplant paid for by Medicaid. It makes no sense. And I think that's the case: that you can't. And I do not want to see us dramatically cut the benefits available to Medicaid recipients, particularly the A.F.D.C. population. We don't want to hurt kids and we don't want to hurt mothers caring for children. But there are things like: There is no reason why the taxpayer should fund hair transplants for somebody on Medicaid. . . .
 Q. How much is spent on hair transplants?
 A. I have no idea. I mean, let me make an absolute confession. We are not going to pay for the $5.6 billion in tax cuts by eliminating hair transplants from Medicaid. I know that's a pretty dramatic concession for me to make. But I think it's more emblematic than financial in its implications.

 	 	 		. . .	 	 Q. And if your projections don't work out, how would you then confront that situation? Would you do like the Legislature and the Governor did in the 90's and postpone the tax cuts?
 A. No. . . .
 We are going to enact this tax cut plan. It is going to happen. And if you look at the numbers -- in the fourth year, the total cost of the tax cut package is a little over $5.6 billion. . . .
 What I'm going to look to do next year is see if we can avoid increasing spending at all. It's what Governor Weld did his first year in Massachusetts, he had no increase in spending. Governor Whitman, her first year in office had no increase in spending. Mayor Giuliani, his first year in office had no increase in spending. This projection is sound even with an increase in spending of 2.7 percent a year.
 I'll tell you, absolutely honestly, I believe we can make the savings, change the system, put in place the cost-containment measures and improve the efficiencies of government to the point where we don't have to increase spending at that point. So I think it is a sound and conservative plan.
 
CRIME AND PUNISHMENT
 
The Death Penalty
 Q. Why is the death penalty a greater deterrent than life without parole, and under what circumstances do you envision yourself commuting a death sentence as governor?
 [The Senator began by talking about Governor Cuomo's "three strikes and you're in" proposal -- which would sentence three-time violent offenders to life in prison without parole -- and what it would mean to someone who has already served two sentences as a violent felon.]
 PATAKI You're out there committing another violent felony. You're holding up the cabdriver or holding up the shop. You know that if you're caught again, you're gone -- life without parole. Never out on the street again. If you kill that person, if you kill the shopkeeper, you're less likely to get caught. You have no witness, you have nobody to testify against you. And if by some chance you do get caught, it's the same penalty -- life without parole. You are creating a perverse incentive for a violent felon to kill if you have life without parole without the death penalty.
 Think for a minute -- a police officer wanders into a bodega, somebody's holding up the storekeeper, he's already served two violent felonies. The police officer wanders in -- what's going on? He surrenders -- life without parole. He kills the police officer, he has a chance of getting away, and if he gets caught -- life without parole. . . . So if we have "three strikes, you're in" without the death penalty for someone who has already served those two violent felonies and would kill, we are creating a perverse incentive. It's the law of unintended consequences where someone who is violent, who is a criminal, has an incentive to kill.
 So I believe that you can't -- you have to couple "three strikes and you're in" with the death penalty.
 Now you ask, what makes you think the death penalty is a deterrent or should be a part of the criminal justice system? Let me give you two broad philosophical reasons: One -- there are two -- one is deterrence, and one is justice.
 Deterrence: I happen to think that there -- and I firmly believe that -- that there are rational circumstances where -- and it's not the case of somebody is high on drugs or a mental patient or someone who in the heat of passion commits a murder -- but there are rational killers who make a determination that, and do an analysis and say, I'm going to kill someone. And the death penalty is a factor. . . .
 And the second part is I truly believe that the death penalty is a part of a fair system of justice. We have the bombing in the World Trade Center, I think a terrorist who commits that act, the system of justice, has forfeited his right to live and we as a society have the right to take that person's life. . . .
 [Senator Pataki was asked if there are circumstances under which he would commute a death sentence.]
 PATAKI I think it's conceivable. You never say that it's, under no circumstances is it possible. You'd have to take a look, that's something that is sui generis. I don't mean to sound like Mario Cuomo, but it's unique, to the circumstances.
Drug Offenders [The Senator was asked about Governor Cuomo's belief that many people in state prisons should be in other kind of programs, particularly nonviolent drug offenders.]
 PATAKI I think to say that someone who is a predicate felon who's been convicted of a second felony doesn't belong in jail, is wrong. A predicate felon, someone who has been convicted of two felonies, belongs in jail. . . .
 You get arrested, you get tried, you get convicted. What happens is you don't serve one day. Not one day. You are out on the street the same day. And you can check with any criminal justice expert in this city. When you plead to your drug felony conviction for selling drugs, you do not get one day in this city. And check with any judge, district attorney, defense attorney. That's what happens. They're out on the street the same day. What message does this send to the community? What message does this send to the kid convicted of a drug felony -- zero time. . . .
 I think that the first time we have to do something to save that kid, to save that person who has been convicted of the felony of selling drugs. And instead of just saying you're back out on the street corner, we have to do things like have structured correctional programs where that person is required to do things as a penalty for having been convicted. And it's a way to avoid that second felony conviction. . . .
Gun Control
 Q. There's been some confusion about your votes on banning assault weapons. Can you explain what your position is?
 A. We should ban assault weapons. It doesn't make any sense to me that someone could have an AK-47 or an Uzi or a Street Sweeper that serves no valid self-defense purpose and serves no valid sporting purpose and just poses an undue risk to the people of this state. . . .
 Q. Senator, are you receiving any campaign funding from the N.R.A.?
 A. Have we gotten any? I don't think so. I don't know. We'll have to go back and take a look at that. We're doing very well at raising money. I'll tell you that much.
 [The Senator was asked what he thinks about the National Rifle Association. At first he said he did not "want to start categorizing other groups, whether they're groups I agree with or disagree with." He was then pressed further on the question. ]
 PATAKI I believe in freedom of speech. I would have voted for the Federal crime bill. Do they have a right to say that they didn't like it? Absolutely they had that right. Do I agree with them on that? No. . . .
 [He was asked whether private citizens should be allowed to have weapons.]
 PATAKI Do I think people should have the right to have a gun in their home if they choose to do it and it's permitted and legal? Yes.
 Q. Is it a good thing for private citizens to own guns?
 A. That's their personal decision.
 Q. Do you own any guns?
 A. No. Actually, I have wired to the wall my grandfather's old shotgun. And it would pose a far greater threat to me, if I ever tried to use it, than to anybody else. I am not -- I do not own guns. But I think it's a person's personal decision, under the law, whether or not they choose to do that. And I'm not going to say to someone that they should or they shouldn't. It's their personal decision.
 
SOCIAL ISSUES
 
Abortion
 Q.Do you or do you not support Medicaid funding for abortion?
 A. Abortion comes down to three issues right now in the State Legislature. The whole question of choice -- I am pro-choice. Regardless of what happens with Roe v. Wade, I don't think politicians in Washington or Albany should tell my wife what she can or cannot do. Period.
 With Medicaid funding, I will continue Medicaid funding. I want to make a change in the system. And the change that I would make is to have an educational component when someone comes in for a Medicaid-funded abortion. I don't support our present system because I want to make that change. But we are not going to deny Medicaid funding, and we are not going to put any legal impediments to abortion in this state.
 Q. What is the educational component?
 A. Right now, if someone comes in for a Medicaid-funded abortion, I believe they should be counseled. They should be counseled in a way so that they can avoid a future unwanted pregnancy. . . .
 Q. Does this represent an evolving position in that you were previously opposed to Medicaid funding, period, but now you're for it with this component?
 A. The position and my position on abortion has evolved. It hasn't evolved in the last year. In 1990, we had the first pro-choice platform of any Republican state party in the country. And it's a position that I feel very strongly about. It is the woman's decision. . . .
 Q. Explain to us your evolution on this issue because it has changed. . . . What accounted for the change?
 A. Well, to me it's not an easy issue. I am not someone who doesn't reflect on the whole question of abortion. And I think most people do. It is a tough decision not just for politicians, it is a very tough personal decision for people.
 And what you're doing is you're weighing rights and, ultimately, I believe that the most important right here involved is the right of the woman to control her body and to control her decision. . . .
 [Mr. Pataki was reminded that he voted against Medicaid financing of abortion as a legislator and was asked if, as governor, he would veto a bill containing the financing.]
 A. No. I will try to make the change to get that educational component in there. I believe we should because I have not heard -- if I don't I will continue Medicaid funding, but I have yet to hear anyone say why it's a bad thing to have this where the provider is given a curriculum provided by the health department to say, "We don't want you to get pregnant again unless you choose to and here are various ways that you could choose to avoid it." And I have never heard anybody say that that's a bad thing and yet it's not the law, so I'm optimistic that we can get it, but if we can't get it we're not going to discontinue Medicaid funding.
Gay Rights [The Senator was asked about gay rights legislation. He said he voted for a bias crime bill whose protections would include homosexuals and would sign it if it reached his desk as governor. He said he supported a vote before the full Senate on a second piece of legislation that would provide broader civil-rights protection to homosexuals in a variety of areas including employment; he went on to discuss two reservations about the bill.] PATAKI One is a practical question -- and here I'm being a lawyer -- is that when a person is a member of a protected class and files a claim, the employer has the ability in defense to use statistical proof. If 12 percent of the work force are minorities and 14 percent of the employees in that company are minorities, then there's a presumption that there is no discrimination and the employer can defend itself that way. You don't have that in the question of sexual orientation because you don't have the statistics. It is largely a private matter, so that the employer is hard pressed to defend the case.
 [A bit later he described his second reservation about providing broader protections.]
 PATAKI You have two people, both of them homosexual. One of them openly states his sexual orientation, all of a sudden becomes a member of the protected class. The other does not. The other, out of a sense of privacy or for whatever reason, doesn't do it. The employer has to cut a job. One of those two jobs. The employer will cut the job of the person who's not the member of the protected class because you are then protecting yourself against a lawsuit. So instead of having equal rights, it becomes a special right as a member of the protected class.
 
THE CAMPAIGN
 
Senator D'Amato
 Q. Talk to us for a second about Senator D'Amato. He's played a crucial role in your campaign. What would his role be in a Pataki administration?
 A. His role would be that of the U.S. Senator, along with the other U.S. Senator. And that would be his role. It's kind of ironic. In 1990 The Daily News writes an editorial blasting D'Amato because the Republican Party ran someone, to be polite, less than qualified as an opponent to Mario Cuomo. They said, "This is a disservice to the people of this state. They deserve a debate on the issues and an intelligent choice and where was Senator D'Amato. He's so influential in the party. He should have helped get a candidate who could raise the issues."
 And now all of a sudden a year ago, he says -- and he didn't say, "Pataki, you're the guy" -- I went down and made the case and said I want to run, I think I have the ideas and the record to beat Mario Cuomo and he said, "Well, it sounds plausible to me." . . .
So I just went out and earned the support and earned the nomination, and Senator D'Amato was very helpful after he went through that whole process and said you're the one who can win. And he helped me with it. What I owe him is what I owe every New Yorker. I'll listen to him. When I agree with him, I'll do what I think is right. When I disagree with him, I'm going to tell him I disagree with him and I'm going to do what I think is in the best ----
 Q. Senator, when have you disagreed?
 A. On the crime bill, on abortion, on environmental issues. I mean, I'm pro-choice, he's pro-life. He runs on the Right-to-Life line. The Right-to-Life line is an opponent of mine, and in fact I had a conservative primary and the conservative primary was on the social issues of someone who was pro-life and against the bias crime bill and was bashing me on that. I would have voted for the Susan Molinari improved crime bill. He didn't. . . .
 Q. Has the Senator raised funds for you?
 A. Yes, he has. We have raised a great deal of money from all different sources, and he has been helping me.
 Q. Are you satisfied or comfortable with the outcome of the ethics inquiry into the way Senator D'Amato ran his office?
 A. You know, I've never even -- I've read about it in The New York Times and . . . I'm not about to tell Congress or Washington how they should run their committees or their operations. I have a very clear idea as to how we should change -- change Albany -- talking about changing the committee structures, talking about changing the budget process, talking about opening up the government in Albany, and my goal is to be the best governor I can be for the people of this state. And I'm going to do everything in my power if I'm given the right to be the governor.
 Q. Should D'Amato be an issue in your campaign? Are you saying he should not, is that the message you're trying to send?
 A. I don't think so at all. I think people who know me know that I've stood up to my own party leadership in Westchester County.
 Q. Most people in New York don't know you.
 A. And we're doing our best to get them to know me, working night and day. The people in Westchester know I stood up to my own party leadership to run for office. Anybody who's covered Albany knows that I stood up to my own party leadership in the State Senate to do what I had told the people of this state I would do, which was fight to lower the cost of government and restructure government and impose budgets that didn't control spending and move toward tax cuts.
 And I did that against the wishes of my party's leadership and I will give Senator D'Amato and Senator Moynihan or Senator Castro or whoever is there the courtesy of listening to their ideas, but I will do what I believe is right for the people of this state, period.
Media Coverage
 [Mr. Pataki and his aides began criticizing news coverage of the campaign, particularly what has been written about Mr. Cuomo's use of state planes. The Republican candidate said that "with respect to the Governor, he's gotten away with much more than he should have."] PATAKI Let me say, when I was -- you were hammering me: Pataki, release your tax returns, release your tax returns. We went back, released them all, including when I was in the private sector.
 Mario Cuomo has never released his tax returns when he was Secretary of State. He was a full-time state employee, never released his returns. That's wrong. And he's gotten away with it.
 I got hammered on my real-estate transactions even though [a Times reporter] found out they were legal, because we laid out every single piece of property I've ever bought or sold. The Governor's never done it.
 Laid out a net worth statement. The Governor won't do it. . . .
 After I got a little bit of a hammering there to disclose and did, the issue seems to have lost attention. And I don't know why the fact that the Governor hasn't matched our level of disclosure isn't still something under consideration.

GRAPHIC: Photo: State Senator George E. Pataki during his two-hour interview with reporters and editors of The New York Times. The Republican gubernatorial candidate said New York's economy was suffering under the weight of high taxes and big government. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; WELFARE (US); MEDICAID;
TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); MEDICAID (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



262 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 4738 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
Pataki on the Record: Excerpts From a Talk On Campaign Issues

 BODY:
State Senator George E. Pataki, the Republican candidate for governor of New York, met with reporters and editors of The New York Times for two hours on Friday to discuss issues in the gubernatorial race and his goals if elected. Here are excerpts from the session.
FISCAL MATTERS Taxing and Spending [Senator Pataki was asked how he will be able to reconcile his campaign promises to cut taxes and control spending while also increasing aid to education and improving other state services.] 
PATAKI First of all, let me say: We are going to control spending because we have to control spending. And it's not something that's unique to government or unique to the state government. Look what Mayor Giuliani has done right here in the last year. He had a $2 billion-plus budget gap. And he didn't raise taxes. He's done it by controlling spending. And he's done it by things like by cutting positions in the central Board of Education. We have outlined a large number of different areas where significant savings can be made.
 Our tax cut plan hinges on two things:
 One is we're anticipating an increase in the revenue of the state. We're anticipating a lower increase than has traditionally or historically been the case, even during Mario Cuomo's two terms.
 And the second is we are going to keep spending below the rate of inflation -- spending increases. That still allows for significant spending increases. It just doesn't allow for the hemorrhaging of money as we saw in Albany this year. This year, state spending in Albany, I think, is up 9.9 percent. It's up over $5 billion. More than three times the rate of inflation. And I don't think there's anybody in this state saying, "Isn't that a wonderful thing that we're finally going to solve New York's problems by having the state government spend a lot more." . . .
 And Mario Cuomo says, well, you can't control spending. You can't cut taxes. You have to. It's being done all around us, not just in New York City. The last three years Westchester County has kept its spending increase to less than 1 percent -- in the last three years. And yet they've had the higher Medicaid costs and the higher social-service costs and mandates imposed by the state government. But they've done it.
 Q. He says you can't cut spending or cut taxes to the degree that you want to.
 A. In other words, he's saying we can't keep spending increases below the rate of inflation. That's his record. He hasn't been able to keep spending increases below the rate of inflation. . . .
 The cumulative record of Mario Cuomo, in his 12 years in office, is that spending has increased at more than twice the rate of inflation. And this year it increased at more than three times the rate of inflation. So I think when he says he can't keep the spending increase below the rate of inflation, I think he's right. He can't.
 But we can and we will because we're going to impose discipline. . . .
 
Welfare Costs

 [Mr. Pataki said he would look at how to make government more efficient.]
 PATAKI . . . Let me just give you one major area where significant cost-savings can be achieved and where Mario Cuomo has failed miserably and you haven't taken him to task on it. And that is the Home Relief population of welfare. The Home Relief population of welfare is a nonfederally-mandated program. It's a program where the states can voluntarily decide: Do we have the program or do we not have the program? We have unending permanent Home Relief benefits. I don't know what other states do, but it's a handful, and none of the surrounding state have that. Home Relief in this state has gone up, under Mario Cuomo, by close to 100 percent. The population is now almost 400,000 people. . . .
 [The Senator also said that when Mario M. Cuomo became Governor, 34 percent of the Home Relief population was in workfare programs but that now only 14 percent are.]
 PATAKI Workfare saves money. Take a look at what happened in Westchester County. Their Home Relief costs are down more than 25 percent. I was saying 20 percent. It's more than 25 and closer to 30 percent because they have put in place a successful workfare program. It's not like reinventing the wheel. It's not like we have to, at the state level, come up with some creative concept that hasn't been considered before. It works. It's working right above this city government.
 And yet Mario Cuomo yesterday says, or whenever he sat down for his filibuster, says you've got two alternatives: private-sector jobs, and in private-sector jobs we are doing horribly, or public-sector jobs. No. You have community service. You have workfare, which is precisely what has happened up there. And you're not creating a new bureaucracy. You're not hiring someone on Home Relief at $18,000 a year to become a public employee. You are requiring them, week in and week out, to show up for public service work.
 Q. So, Senator, would you put the entire Home Relief population on workfare ----
 A. Absolutely.
 Q. Would you eliminate education programs, job training programs ----
 A. No. And in fact the Westchester program incorporates that. It incorporates job training. It incorporates education. And it has been extremely successful. And there are a number of ways that this works. One is that it reduces the number of people who are living or employed someplace else, so that you have a reduction in the number of people because the ineligibles don't show up. They're not there. Two, you create a sense of self-worth and dignity in the person who is receiving workfare. And I think this is an incredibly important part of this program -- is it's not simply to reduce fraud and save money. It's to create the sense of self-worth and pride that comes from going out and being a working, contributing member of society. . . .
 I was sitting in my Senate office in downtown Peekskill a year or so ago and a man comes in to interview me. He's a student at Mercy College. And he starts asking me about my thoughts on the Senate, and I tell him my ideas. And, as often happens, I start asking him about his life and what he's doing. He was a heroin addict on welfare in the Bronx. And he had decided that if he didn't straighten his life out he was going to die. So what he did is, he said, I have to get out of the neighborhood. Moved to Peekskill. Got off drugs. Was living in Peekskill, off drugs but on welfare. Just sitting home doing nothing.
 Westchester put in place its pride-in-work program. He had to show up. And all of a sudden he realized he had some ability. He had some skills. And when he came in to interview me, he was doing public service work for the city of Peekskill at the Water Department in a job that didn't displace a public employee. And the unions were supportive of the program because they were talked to and it was made clear that the work that would be done would not displace public employees but would be work that otherwise would have never been gotten to. . . .
 When he was interviewing me he was still on public service, he was doing public service work for the city through the county program and he was a student -- I think he was a sophomore at Mercy College, getting A's and B's -- and this person's going to make something of his life. So it's not simply the saving of money, which is obviously very important, but it's also the changing of approaches and attitudes to life. . . . Will Cuts Be Painful?
 Q. You're offering people a $6 billion tax cut, we just want to hear you say what is going to be the cost of that on the other side.
 A. The cost of that on the other side is that we are going to keep the rate of spending increase at the state level to less than the rate of increase of inflation over the four-year period. And I don't think that is something that in any way is going to impose hardship on the people of this state. In fact, I think it's going to be a huge relief to the people of this state that we are finally controlling spending, we are finally cutting taxes. . . .
 
Job Creation

 [The Senator was asked how he explains the strong job growth in New York in the mid-1980's.]
 PATAKI We lagged the national average. We have been 47th in the country in job growth since Mario Cuomo's been Governor for 12 years. And Mario Cuomo says, "Oh, it's Ronald Reagan's fault, it's George Bush's fault, it's the Japanese's fault. And yet, look what I did in the middle 80's." What you did in the middle 80's was, when there was a national boom, you lagged that national boom. We created jobs at a slower rate than the rest of the country. When the recession hit, we lost jobs at a faster rate than the rest of the country. . . .
 Why? Is it because we don't have people? Is it because we don't have capital? Is it because people aren't willing to work here? They don't have the commitment or the risk taking or the entrepreneurial spirit? Of course not. We have the most talented people in this country right here in this state. But they're being killed by overtaxation, overregulation, things like raids on the workers compensation fund. . . .
 
Aid to New York City
 Q. Senator, while we're talking about school aid, what should New York City's percentage of school aid be?
 A. Well, first of all, let me say that the Mayor should have control over the education system in this city, and it's something the Mayor has wanted. He's right. He's responsible. He's the one who's accountable. He's the one who has to balance the budget and provide the budget, he should be given that authority.
 I know the argument. It's like 34.5 percent of the aid and 37 percent of the students under the formula. But you can't look at it simply under that formula, you have to look at all the different aid packages, the transportation-aid package, it's the Medicaid assistance package, and the city should be treated fairly. The success of the city is critical, absolutely critical to the success of the state.
 Q. Is it treated fairly now in terms of education aid?
 A. I don't think any local government is being treated fairly, whether it's in Medicaid or education. . . .
 It has been the pattern of this administration to have wonderful programs that you can announce, but they have to be paid for by the county government or the city government so that it's the local politician who has to raise the tax and get yelled at. . . .
 
Limits on Medicaid

 [Senator Pataki was asked whether he would limit some of the services that the state now provides under Medicaid.] PATAKI I think, personally, it's absurd that somebody can get a hair transplant paid for by Medicaid. It makes no sense. And I think that's the case: that you can't. And I do not want to see us dramatically cut the benefits available to Medicaid recipients, particularly the A.F.D.C. population. We don't want to hurt kids and we don't want to hurt mothers caring for children. But there are things like: There is no reason why the taxpayer should fund hair transplants for somebody on Medicaid. . . .
 Q. How much is spent on hair transplants?
 A. I have no idea. I mean, let me make an absolute confession. We are not going to pay for the $5.6 billion in tax cuts by eliminating hair transplants from Medicaid. I know that's a pretty dramatic concession for me to make. But I think it's more emblematic than financial in its implications. . . .
 Q. And if your projections don't work out, how would you then confront that situation? Would you do like the Legislature and the Governor did in the 90's and postpone the tax cuts?
 A. No. . . .
 We are going to enact this tax cut plan. It is going to happen. And if you look at the numbers -- in the fourth year, the total cost of the tax cut package is a little over $5.6 billion. . . .
 What I'm going to look to do next year is see if we can avoid increasing spending at all. It's what Governor Weld did his first year in Massachusetts, he had no increase in spending. Governor Whitman, her first year in office had no increase in spending. Mayor Giuliani, his first year in office had no increase in spending. This projection is sound even with an increase in spending of 2.7 percent a year.
 I'll tell you, absolutely honestly, I believe we can make the savings, change the system, put in place the cost-containment measures and improve the efficiencies of government to the point where we don't have to increase spending at that point. So I think it is a sound and conservative plan.
CRIME AND PUNISHMENT The Death Penalty
 Q. Why is the death penalty a greater deterrent than life without parole, and under what circumstances do you envision yourself commuting a death sentence as governor?
 [The Senator began by talking about Governor Cuomo's "three strikes and you're in" proposal -- which would sentence three-time violent offenders to life in prison without parole -- and what it would mean to someone who has already served two sentences as a violent felon.]
 PATAKI You're out there committing another violent felony. You're holding up the cabdriver or holding up the shop. You know that if you're caught again, you're gone -- life without parole. Never out on the street again. If you kill that person, if you kill the shopkeeper, you're less likely to get caught. You have no witness, you have nobody to testify against you. And if by some chance you do get caught, it's the same penalty -- life without parole. You are creating a perverse incentive for a violent felon to kill if you have life without parole without the death penalty.
 Think for a minute -- a police officer wanders into a bodega, somebody's holding up the storekeeper, he's already served two violent felonies. The police officer wanders in -- what's going on? He surrenders -- life without parole. He kills the police officer, he has a chance of getting away, and if he gets caught -- life without parole. . . . So if we have "three strikes, you're in" without the death penalty for someone who has already served those two violent felonies and would kill, we are creating a perverse incentive. It's the law of unintended consequences where someone who is violent, who is a criminal, has an incentive to kill.
 So I believe that you can't -- you have to couple "three strikes and you're in" with the death penalty.
 Now you ask, what makes you think the death penalty is a deterrent or should be a part of the criminal justice system? Let me give you two broad philosophical reasons: One -- there are two -- one is deterrence, and one is justice.
 Deterrence: I happen to think that there -- and I firmly believe that -- that there are rational circumstances where -- and it's not the case of somebody is high on drugs or a mental patient or someone who in the heat of passion commits a murder -- but there are rational killers who make a determination that, and do an analysis and say, I'm going to kill someone. And the death penalty is a factor. . . .
 And the second part is I truly believe that the death penalty is a part of a fair system of justice. We have the bombing in the World Trade Center, I think a terrorist who commits that act, the system of justice, has forfeited his right to live and we as a society have the right to take that person's life. . . .
 [Senator Pataki was asked if there are circumstances under which he would commute a death sentence.]
 PATAKI I think it's conceivable. You never say that it's, under no circumstances is it possible. You'd have to take a look, that's something that is sui generis. I don't mean to sound like Mario Cuomo, but it's unique, to the circumstances.
Drug Offenders [The Senator was asked about Governor Cuomo's belief that many people in state prisons should be in other kind of programs, particularly nonviolent drug offenders.]
 PATAKI I think to say that someone who is a predicate felon who's been convicted of a second felony doesn't belong in jail, is wrong. A predicate felon, someone who has been convicted of two felonies, belongs in jail. . . .
 You get arrested, you get tried, you get convicted. What happens is you don't serve one day. Not one day. You are out on the street the same day. And you can check with any criminal justice expert in this city. When you plead to your drug felony conviction for selling drugs, you do not get one day in this city. And check with any judge, district attorney, defense attorney. That's what happens. They're out on the street the same day. What message does this send to the community? What message does this send to the kid convicted of a drug felony -- zero time. . . .
I think that the first time we have to do something to save that kid, to save that person who has been convicted of the felony of selling drugs. And instead of just saying you're back out on the street corner, we have to do things like have structured correctional programs where that person is required to do things as a penalty for having been convicted. And it's a way to avoid that second felony conviction. . . .
Gun Control
 Q. There's been some confusion about your votes on banning assault weapons. Can you explain what your position is?
 A. We should ban assault weapons. It doesn't make any sense to me that someone could have an AK-47 or an Uzi or a Street Sweeper that serves no valid self-defense purpose and serves no valid sporting purpose and just poses an undue risk to the people of this state. . . .
 Q. Senator, are you receiving any campaign funding from the N.R.A.?
 A. Have we gotten any? I don't think so. I don't know. We'll have to go back and take a look at that. We're doing very well at raising money. I'll tell you that much.
 [The Senator was asked what he thinks about the National Rifle Association. At first he said he did not "want to start categorizing other groups, whether they're groups I agree with or disagree with." He was then pressed further on the question. ]
 PATAKI I believe in freedom of speech. I would have voted for the Federal crime bill. Do they have a right to say that they didn't like it? Absolutely they had that right. Do I agree with them on that? No. . . .
 [He was asked whether private citizens should be allowed to have weapons.]
 PATAKI Do I think people should have the right to have a gun in their home if they choose to do it and it's permitted and legal? Yes.
 Q. Is it a good thing for private citizens to own guns?
 A. That's their personal decision.
 Q. Do you own any guns?
 A. No. Actually, I have wired to the wall my grandfather's old shotgun. And it would pose a far greater threat to me, if I ever tried to use it, than to anybody else. I am not -- I do not own guns. But I think it's a person's personal decision, under the law, whether or not they choose to do that. And I'm not going to say to someone that they should or they shouldn't. It's their personal decision.
SOCIAL ISSUES Abortion
 Q.Do you or do you not support Medicaid funding for abortion?
 A. Abortion comes down to three issues right now in the State Legislature. The whole question of choice -- I am pro-choice. Regardless of what happens with Roe v. Wade, I don't think politicians in Washington or Albany should tell my wife what she can or cannot do. Period.
 With Medicaid funding, I will continue Medicaid funding. I want to make a change in the system. And the change that I would make is to have an educational component when someone comes in for a Medicaid-funded abortion. I don't support our present system because I want to make that change. But we are not going to deny Medicaid funding, and we are not going to put any legal impediments to abortion in this state.
 Q. What is the educational component?
 A. Right now, if someone comes in for a Medicaid-funded abortion, I believe they should be counseled. They should be counseled in a way so that they can avoid a future unwanted pregnancy. . . .
 Q. Does this represent an evolving position in that you were previously opposed to Medicaid funding, period, but now you're for it with this component?
 A. The position and my position on abortion has evolved. It hasn't evolved in the last year. In 1990, we had the first pro-choice platform of any Republican state party in the country. And it's a position that I feel very strongly about. It is the woman's decision. . . .
 Q. Explain to us your evolution on this issue because it has changed. . . . What accounted for the change?
 A. Well, to me it's not an easy issue. I am not someone who doesn't reflect on the whole question of abortion. And I think most people do. It is a tough decision not just for politicians, it is a very tough personal decision for people.
 And what you're doing is you're weighing rights and, ultimately, I believe that the most important right here involved is the right of the woman to control her body and to control her decision. . . .
 [Mr. Pataki was reminded that he voted against Medicaid financing of abortion as a legislator and was asked if, as governor, he would veto a bill containing the financing.]
 A. No. I will try to make the change to get that educational component in there. I believe we should because I have not heard -- if I don't I will continue Medicaid funding, but I have yet to hear anyone say why it's a bad thing to have this where the provider is given a curriculum provided by the health department to say, "We don't want you to get pregnant again unless you choose to and here are various ways that you could choose to avoid it." And I have never heard anybody say that that's a bad thing and yet it's not the law, so I'm optimistic that we can get it, but if we can't get it we're not going to discontinue Medicaid funding.
Gay Rights [The Senator was asked about gay rights legislation. He said he voted for a bias crime bill whose protections would include homosexuals and would sign it if it reached his desk as governor. He said he supported a vote before the full Senate on a second piece of legislation that would provide broader civil-rights protection to homosexuals in a variety of areas including employment; he went on to discuss two reservations about the bill.] PATAKI One is a practical question -- and here I'm being a lawyer -- is that when a person is a member of a protected class and files a claim, the employer has the ability in defense to use statistical proof. If 12 percent of the work force are minorities and 14 percent of the employees in that company are minorities, then there's a presumption that there is no discrimination and the employer can defend itself that way. You don't have that in the question of sexual orientation because you don't have the statistics. It is largely a private matter, so that the employer is hard pressed to defend the case.
 [A bit later he described his second reservation about providing broader protections.]
 PATAKI You have two people, both of them homosexual. One of them openly states his sexual orientation, all of a sudden becomes a member of the protected class. The other does not. The other, out of a sense of privacy or for whatever reason, doesn't do it. The employer has to cut a job. One of those two jobs. The employer will cut the job of the person who's not the member of the protected class because you are then protecting yourself against a lawsuit. So instead of having equal rights, it becomes a special right as a member of the protected class.
THE CAMPAIGN Senator D'Amato
 Q. Talk to us for a second about Senator D'Amato. He's played a crucial role in your campaign. What would his role be in a Pataki administration?
 A. His role would be that of the U.S. Senator, along with the other U.S. Senator. And that would be his role. It's kind of ironic. In 1990 The Daily News writes an editorial blasting D'Amato because the Republican Party ran someone, to be polite, less than qualified as an opponent to Mario Cuomo. They said, "This is a disservice to the people of this state. They deserve a debate on the issues and an intelligent choice and where was Senator D'Amato. He's so influential in the party. He should have helped get a candidate who could raise the issues."
 And now all of a sudden a year ago, he says -- and he didn't say, "Pataki, you're the guy" -- I went down and made the case and said I want to run, I think I have the ideas and the record to beat Mario Cuomo and he said, "Well, it sounds plausible to me." . . .
 So I just went out and earned the support and earned the nomination, and Senator D'Amato was very helpful after he went through that whole process and said you're the one who can win. And he helped me with it. What I owe him is what I owe every New Yorker. I'll listen to him. When I agree with him, I'll do what I think is right. When I disagree with him, I'm going to tell him I disagree with him and I'm going to do what I think is in the best ----
 Q. Senator, when have you disagreed?
 A. On the crime bill, on abortion, on environmental issues. I mean, I'm pro-choice, he's pro-life. He runs on the Right-to-Life line. The Right-to-Life line is an opponent of mine, and in fact I had a conservative primary and the conservative primary was on the social issues of someone who was pro-life and against the bias crime bill and was bashing me on that. I would have voted for the Susan Molinari improved crime bill. He didn't. . . .
 Q. Has the Senator raised funds for you?
 A. Yes, he has. We have raised a great deal of money from all different sources, and he has been helping me.
 Q. Are you satisfied or comfortable with the outcome of the ethics inquiry into the way Senator D'Amato ran his office?
 A. You know, I've never even -- I've read about it in The New York Times and . . . I'm not about to tell Congress or Washington how they should run their committees or their operations. I have a very clear idea as to how we should change -- change Albany -- talking about changing the committee structures, talking about changing the budget process, talking about opening up the government in Albany, and my goal is to be the best governor I can be for the people of this state. And I'm going to do everything in my power if I'm given the right to be the governor.
 Q. Should D'Amato be an issue in your campaign? Are you saying he should not, is that the message you're trying to send?
 A. I don't think so at all. I think people who know me know that I've stood up to my own party leadership in Westchester County.
 Q. Most people in New York don't know you.
 A. And we're doing our best to get them to know me, working night and day. The people in Westchester know I stood up to my own party leadership to run for office. Anybody who's covered Albany knows that I stood up to my own party leadership in the State Senate to do what I had told the people of this state I would do, which was fight to lower the cost of government and restructure government and impose budgets that didn't control spending and move toward tax cuts.
 And I did that against the wishes of my party's leadership and I will give Senator D'Amato and Senator Moynihan or Senator Castro or whoever is there the courtesy of listening to their ideas, but I will do what I believe is right for the people of this state, period.
Media Coverage
 [Mr. Pataki and his aides began criticizing news coverage of the campaign, particularly what has been written about Mr. Cuomo's use of state planes. The Republican candidate said that "with respect to the Governor, he's gotten away with much more than he should have."] PATAKI Let me say, when I was -- you were hammering me: Pataki, release your tax returns, release your tax returns. We went back, released them all, including when I was in the private sector.
 Mario Cuomo has never released his tax returns when he was Secretary of State. He was a full-time state employee, never released his returns. That's wrong. And he's gotten away with it.
 I got hammered on my real-estate transactions even though [a Times reporter] found out they were legal, because we laid out every single piece of property I've ever bought or sold. The Governor's never done it.
 Laid out a net worth statement. The Governor won't do it. . . .
 After I got a little bit of a hammering there to disclose and did, the issue seems to have lost attention. And I don't know why the fact that the Governor hasn't matched our level of disclosure isn't still something under consideration.

GRAPHIC: Photo: State Senator George E. Pataki during his two-hour interview with reporters and editors of The New York Times. The Republican gubernatorial candidate said New York's economy was suffering under the weight of high taxes and big government. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; WELFARE (US); MEDICAID;
TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); MEDICAID (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



263 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: No Baseball. No Hockey. Lost Sales.

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON 

 BODY:
The players' strike could cost Major League Baseball up to $280 million in lost merchandise sales, and many retailers are postponing orders for goods because they are uncertain about whether play will resume in the spring.
Whether sales of hockey merchandise will also suffer -- National Hockey League players have been locked out by team owners while negotiations continue -- remains unclear. N.H.L. merchandise has boomed in recent years, particularly in the Sun Belt. If the labor dispute is not resolved, sales could be hurt badly, retailing experts say. 
 But significant damage has been done to baseball clothing and other merchandise.
"It's affecting our planning and buying for next year," said Keith Harmon, a spokesman for Merle Harmon's Fan Fair, a 143-store sporting goods chain headquartered in Elm Grove, Wis. "Orders aren't being placed."
Because some manufacturers need six months' notice to make timely deliveries, Mr. Harmon said, if the strike is not settled shortly "we're reaching the point now that even if we place an order it won't get on shelves."
A spokeswoman for Major League Baseball, Carol Coleman, said the strike, which began on Aug. 12, would cut 10 percent from projected 1994 sales of $2.8 billion, up from $2.5 billion in 1993.
Among the retailers likely to be the hardest hit are those in the home regions of the four division leaders. Of those, the New York Yankees and Chicago White Sox are among the top five teams at the cash register.
In a survey of 30 of the largest sports retailers last month by Sporting Goods Business, a majority of those polled said that the strike was having drastic effects on sales, the editor of the magazine, Andrew Gaffney, said on Friday. Mr. Gaffney added that uncertainty about the resumption of baseball had led several major chains to cut spring orders up to 25 percent.
Sales of baseball goods have declined nearly 50 percent at Sears, Roebuck & Company, the divisional men's sportswear merchandise manager, Tom Pavsek, told an apparel-industry trade newspaper, The Daily News Record, last week.
Hockey merchandise has meanwhile been selling 25 percent ahead of last year's pace and is expected to top $1 billion by season's end in June, according to league officials.
With relatively new franchises in Dallas, Miami, Tampa Bay, Fla., and San Jose and Anaheim, Calif., the league has been building a broader base. Hockey jerseys have become a fashionable choice, even for people who have never been on skates, and the league has reached marketing deals with Nike and Anheuser-Busch and a broadcast contract with Fox Television.
"They are really positioned to grow," said Karen Raugust, executive editor of The Licensing Letter, a trade publication in Brooklyn. N.H.L. merchandise is arriving in stores and is in the pipeline for the holidays, she said, but if the labor impasse turns into "a bitter struggle where the public has little sympathy, like the baseball strike, that could turn people off."
Rick Dudley, chief operating officer of N.H.L. Enterprises, the properties division of the league, said on Friday, "We anticipate the season will get under way and we won't lose out on that momentum."
But few others are that optimistic. The league postponed the scheduled opening on Oct. 1 until next Saturday, to allow time for negotiations, which have made little progress.
One beneficiary of the baseball walkout is the minor leagues. "Their licensing programs got a boost," said Ms. Raugust, adding that even before the strike minor league merchandise was selling strongly above the already powerful level of last year, which was 42 percent above 1992. The 1993 total was $40 million.
Team apparel licensed by an independent minor league, the International Hockey League, is also selling well, retailers said.
All major sports leagues receive average royalties of 9 percent of the wholesale sales of merchandise bearing team names and logos. Those payments go to the respective leagues and are divided equally among the teams. The N.H.L. divides its total among 26 teams and baseball among 28.
Last year the $2.5 billion in retail merchandise sales for baseball produced about $4 million for each team.
Manufacturers of licensed sports apparel are also feeling the pinch, especially those that specialize in "event" items like shirts and hats tied to the World Series.
Larger apparel makers like Logo 7 of Indianapolis and Starter Sportswear of New Haven can generally shrug off the losses, because they make goods involving many sports. So the capacity unexpectedly freed by slacking baseball or hockey orders can be diverted to producing football and basketball merchandise, as well as minor league and college goods, said Pamela Singleton, an analyst for Merrill Lynch & Company. She follows, among other, the Russell Corporation of Alexander City, Ala., which makes jerseys for baseball players in professional and minor leagues, as well as college and high school teams and the Little League.
The strike has not even led Ms. Singleton to revise her year-end earnings estimate for Russell, which obtains 10 percent of its $1.1 billion in sales from licensed items.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Decline in Hot Dogs
 By The Associated Press
 Companies that make hot dogs and sell them and other snacks at baseball and hockey games have been feeling pain from the labor problems in professional sports.
"This last week should have been terrific," said Bob Schwartz, vice president of sales for the Vienna Sausage Manufacturing Company, which supplies hot dogs to vendors at Chicago White Sox, Cubs and Blackhawks games. "Instead, there's nothing."
The Delaware North Companies of Buffalo, which has concessions at seven major league ball parks and four hockey arenas and whose chairman, Jeremy Jacobs, owns the Boston Bruins, has been particularly hard hit.
"We are a large and a very healthy company, but those kinds of losses are felt by an organization of any size," said Samuel Gifford, a vice president.
Delaware North, whose revenues last year totaled $1.2 billion, had planned for $100 million in sales this year from its baseball concessions at Tiger Stadium in Detroit, Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati, Milwaukee County Stadium, Comiskey Park in Chicago and the Ballpark in Arlington, Tex.
With the season canceled, Delaware North lost $25 million to $30 million in sales, Mr. Gifford said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BUD (PAR) (50%); BUD (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (63%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (68%); MIAMI, FL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (NHL); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN; MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL OWNERS ASSOCIATION; NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (63%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (60%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (50%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); DALLAS STARS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (NHL); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN; MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL OWNERS ASSOCIATION; NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); DALLAS STARS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (68%); MIAMI, FL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; SALES; STRIKES; LOCKOUTS; MAJOR LEAGUES ; FINANCES BASEBALL (95%); SPORTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MEN'S CLOTHING (61%); NETWORK TELEVISION (60%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, ANDREA MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994



264 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: THE OVERVIEW;
CLINTON SENDS MORE PLANES TO MIDEAST, SAYING HE SEES NO SIGN OF IRAQI PULLBACK

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
Iraq announced today that it was withdrawing its troops from provocative positions along the Kuwaiti border, but President Clinton told Americans tonight that the United States had seen no evidence so far of a withdrawal and was adding new firepower to its forces in the Persian Gulf region.
In a televised address from the Oval Office, Mr. Clinton announced that he was dispatching hundreds more aircraft, which Administration officials said would bring to about 550 the total of American planes in the region. A total of 356 aircraft ordered to the region today includes F-117 stealth fighters and B-52 bombers, the officials added. 
 Mr. Clinton, declaring that the United States had a duty to insure that Iraq did not again threaten neighboring nations, said, "We will not allow Saddam Hussein to defy the will of the United States and the international community."
In the new confrontation with Iraq, he said: "Our objectives are clear. Our forces are strong and our cause is right." [Transcript of Mr. Clinton's address, page A11.]
The President's announcement was intended first to leave Iraq and its leader, President Hussein, with no doubt about his determination to strike back with overwhelming force if Iraq should mount a new invasion against Kuwait.
But as a 36,000-member American ground force began to make its way to the Persian Gulf, senior advisers said Mr. Clinton had concluded that further military or diplomatic action would be necessary even if Iraq did withdraw its forces from the Kuwaiti frontier.
Among the measures discussed as Mr. Clinton's top national security advisers met throughout the day in the White House was the possibility of asking the United Nations Security Council to create a buffer zone in southern Iraq from which Iraqi ground troops would be excluded.
That would greatly extend the restrictions already imposed on Iraq by the United Nations, which since March 1991 has enforced zones in both southern and northern Iraq where Iraqi military aircraft are prohibited from operating.
The officials said the latest crisis had only underscored the peril to Kuwait that Iraq still represents, 44 months after its forces were driven out of Kuwait by the United States and its allies in the Persian Gulf war.
A senior Administration official said tonight that Mr. Clinton had determined that it was unacceptable to leave Mr. Hussein in a position from which "he can create an international crisis by threatening Kuwait." In dispatching so much military might to the Persian Gulf, the official said, Mr. Clinton was determined both "to deal with the current situation and to prevent it from arising again."
The last American combat troops left Kuwait in December 1991, more than nine months after the gulf war ended. That they are returning in large numbers now raises the prospect that the United States, having committed itself more than three years ago to defending Kuwait, might feel compelled to establish a permanent troop presence on the Arabian peninsula, much as it has maintained forces in South Korea since the end of the Korean War in 1953.
Today, Defense Secretary William J. Perry and other top officials insisted that they had no desire to keep a large number of American troops in Kuwait for a long time. Mr. Perry suggested that the United States might resort to air strikes against Iraq even if Iraqi troops never crossed into Iraq.
But it was far from clear how the United States intended to deter or prevent future advances toward Kuwait by Iraq and its 350,000-man army, short of establishing a permanent new force in the region.
The address tonight was Mr. Clinton's second from the Oval Office in less than a month. He used it in part to call attention to the success of the American military intervention in Haiti, whose military leader, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, announced today that he was stepping down and leaving the country to make room for the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the elected President.
That was what Mr. Clinton sought when he dispatched troops to the Caribbean 21 days ago, and he drew a comparison tonight between his policies in Haiti and in Iraq, saying that diplomacy was sometimes effective only when backed by the threat of military force.
Tonight, Mr. Clinton said the United States still had seen no evidence that Iraqi forces were moving away from the Kuwaiti frontier, despite an announcement this morning from Iraq's Ambassador to the United Nations, Nizar Hamdoon. Administration officials said it would become clearer by daybreak Tuesday whether Mr. Hamdoon's statements were accurate.
But the President expressed considerable skepticism. "Saddam Hussein has shown the world before, with his acts of aggression and his weapons of mass destruction, that he cannot be trusted," he said. Of the Iraqi promise, he added, "We're interested in facts, not promises -- in deeds, not words. And we have not yet seen evidence that Iraq's troops are, in fact, pulling back."
In the meantime, Mr. Clinton said tonight, the 36,000 American troops and hundreds of planes dispatched by the United States would continue on their way. The first planes and troops arrived in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait this morning. Administration officials said a substantial buildup was likely to continue even if Iraqi forces do back away from their provocative positions.
Mr. Clinton, who canceled a political trip to focus on Kuwait, spoke by telephone today to the leaders of Russia, Britain, France, Egypt and Turkey as he sought to build support for possible military action. He spoke on Sunday night with King Fahd of Saudi Arabia.
All six foreign leaders expressed support for "quick and vigorous military measures to defend Kuwait," a senior White House official said. The official said the leaders also agreed that Iraq should not be permitted to blackmail the United Nations Security Council into lifting the economic sanctions.
In his speech, Mr. Clinton said the interests at stake were the same as those that prompted President Bush to send 500,000 United States soldiers to the Persian Gulf to expel Iraqi forces from Kuwait in 1991.
Mr. Clinton invoked the names not only of Mr. Bush, but also of Gen. Colin L. Powell and Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, the architects of the gulf war victory, in saying that the United States remained committed to defending Kuwait.
While Iraqi forces remain on their own soil for now, Mr. Clinton said, "Because of what happened in 1990, this provocation requires a strong response from the United States and the international community."
Iraq has been seeking to persuade the Security Council to ease the economic sanctions that were imposed after its forces first invaded Kuwait four years ago. In massing its troops on the border yet again, some analysts believe, Iraq may simply be seeking a negotiating tool.
Tonight Mr. Clinton said that "full compliance, not reckless provocation" was the way to get the sanctions lifted. The curbs have imposed substantial hardships on the Iraqi people.
But to address Arab concerns about such suffering, Administration officials said the White House was weighing whether to propose a United Nations resolution that would compel Mr. Hussein to sell $1.6 billion in oil and use the proceeds to buy necessities for his people. The Security Council has already adopted a resolution that would allow Mr. Hussein to sell oil for humanitarian purposes, but he has so far refused to take that step.
Administration officials insisted today that their focus now was to deter Iraq from mounting a new invasion and to defend against such an attack if it should occur.
But they made clear that they were thinking ahead to measures intended either to cripple Iraq's military forces or to insure that they remained far from Kuwait's vulnerable border.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher is to meet in Kuwait on Wednesday with a number of foreign ministers, including those from the gulf states, and Administration officials said they are likely to discuss such goals.
Mr. Clinton's response to the Iraqi buildup is far more aggressive than that four years ago by President George Bush, who sent only a mild warning to Mr. Hussein. But it is not just hindsight that has pointed Mr. Clinton on a more aggressive course.
With the United States and its allies still united on the need to hold a firm line against Iraq, the President has been able to count on strong statements even from Syria, Egypt and the Arab League, which were reluctant in 1990 to criticize an Arab brother.
Mr. Clinton's hand has also been strengthened by the cache of military equipment that the Bush Administration arranged to leave in Kuwait after the gulf war. And while Mr. Bush did not know whether Saudi Arabia would even allow American forces on its soil until Defense Secretary Dick Cheney won permission from King Fahd, Mr. Clinton has been able to count on the Saudi Government, which allowed dozens of American planes to remain in place at its advanced bases and will now house many of the Air Force planes dispatched in today's substantial reinforcement.
White House officials said tonight that Mr. Clinton had telephoned Mr. Bush to brief him on the steps he was taking. In a speech in Tennessee, the former Presient offered praise for Mr. Clinton's performance while defending his own decision to stop the Persian Gulf war after 100 hours, well short of Baghdad, a step that left Mr. Hussein in power and half of his Republican Guard forces intact.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a meeting at the White House yesterday, President Clinton discussed the crisis set off by Iraq's troop movements with, from left, Anthony Lake, the national security adviser; Defense Secretary William J. Perry; and Gen. John M. D. Shalikashvili, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. A11)
 
Map of Iraq

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); KUWAIT (94%); GULF STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); KUWAIT (94%); GULF STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (71%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



265 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Burning Trash for Energy: Is It an Endangered Industry?

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio

 BODY:
With its towering smokestacks, hungry furnaces and transmission lines vibrating with thousands of kilowatts of electricity, this city's immense garbage incinerator was once considered a safe and economical means for disposing of thousands of tons of trash.
Now Columbus is seriously considering permanently closing the 11-year-old plant and dumping its garbage in a landfill. 
 The most immediate cause of the incinerator's troubles are high concentrations of toxic pollutants, including dioxin, that are pouring from its smokestacks. The Federal Environmental Protection Agency issued an emergency order last month directing Columbus to fix the problem -- at a cost estimated by the city at $65 million -- for environmental equipment to eliminate toxic compounds by 1996, or the Government would close the plant.
Dioxin has been shown to cause cancer and fetal disorders in laboratory animals. Mercury, another toxic byproduct of incineration, causes damage to the nervous system.
The Government's order inspired a debate here about whether the air-pollution problem was a danger to human health. But behind that debate lies the true cause of the incinerator's troubles: legal setbacks, lower energy prices and safety concerns have driven up the costs of burning trash as fuel and pushed down the price of dumping garbage in old-fashioned landfills.
Today a number of cities and counties in the Midwest, East and South are considering closing their incinerators and going back to dumping their garbage in landfills. The current problems appear to be spelling the end of an era that began in the late 1970's, when more than 100 cities and counties decided to build incinerators that would burn trash to produce electricity.
Since 1991, 77 communities have canceled plans to build new plants that would convert waste to energy, according to Governmental Advisory Associates, a research firm based in New York City. Only three new incinerators are under construction this year, and one city, Windham, Conn., has closed its plant.
"The landscape certainly has changed," said Scott Mackin, president of Ogden Projects Inc. in Fairfield, N.J., the nation's largest builder of waste-to-energy incinerators. "Everybody agrees the market is dormant. The question is how long this market will remain dormant in the future."
The company says it has just one new plant on order, the lowest number in its 10-year history.
"Our plant cost more than we expected when it was built, and it was harder to operate than we thought," said Michael D. Long, the executive director of the Solid Waste Authority of Central Ohio, the agency that manages the plant. "Environmental controls are pushing our costs up. Energy prices haven't moved. We've been hit this year by two Supreme Court decisions that went against the industry. Meanwhile, landfill costs went down. Basically, we're into a death spiral."
It is too early to declare the incinerator industry dead, some experts say. They note, for example, that Congress may consider legislation in its next session to allow states to bar shipments of garbage from other states, a proposal that, if approved, may prompt construction of incinerators in New York City, which has averted a trash crisis by shipping garbage to Pennsylvania and Ohio.
A plant proposed for the Brooklyn Navy Yard has attracted significant public opposition, and New York City has put off its decision on whether to build it. City officials say they do not want to build such a plant, but insist that incineration be retained as an option, and they continue to seek a permit for the project.
But elsewhere, the conditions that led cities to build waste-to-energy incinerators in the first place have reversed themselves.
In some ways, the plants are victims of their own success. Today, 17 percent of the nation's trash is burned, compared with 9 percent in 1980, of which waste-to-energy plants accounted for less than 2 percent. That, combined with increased recycling -- estimated to take care of 19 percent of trash -- has meant that pressure on landfills has declined, making dump space less scarce and less expensive.
Incineration has gone through cycles of popularity and disfavor. As recently as 1960, according to the E.P.A., 31 percent of the nation's garbage was burned in conventional incinerators. In the late 1970's, with predictions of steeply rising energy prices and the Government's eagerness to replace leaky landfills, the old idea of burning garbage gained new life, but with the new chore of producing electricity as well.
The waste-to-energy incinerators were the successors to ordinary trash-burning plants that communities built in the 1950's and 60's, the vast majority of which were closed because of heavy air pollution.
In the 1980's the E.P.A. encouraged incineration. At the same time, new landfill regulations called for closing thousands of local dumps because of their potential threat to ground water. This raised fears that the nation would run out of dumping space.
"When you analyzed all the options available to a city, waste-to-energy plants made sense," said Nancy McCann, the urban environmental coordinator for Tampa, Fla., which completed a $115 million plant in 1985. "They provided a long-term solution that is different than finding space for new landfills, which is getting harder and harder in Florida."
But the environmental agency has reversed itself under the Clinton Administration. In early September, for example, the agency proposed new regulations to control dioxin and other air pollutants emitted by municipal incinerators, a decision that will further increase costs.
"My priority is safety first," said the E.P.A. Administrator, Carol M. Browner. "If the effect of putting in place tough standards changes market dynamics, then that's appropriate."
Finding the money to comply with all the environmental regulations will not be easy. Tampa faces $25 million to $40 million in added costs to fit its incinerator with new equipment to control air pollution, Ms. McCann said.
And municipal officials cannot count on as much income from their plants' energy production. In the late 1970's, Federal and state officials predicted that the electricity generated by the plants would produce significant income. But energy prices have declined in real dollars.
Cities and counties had insured that the plants would pay for themselves by drawing up elaborate contracts and regulations that allowed them to control the flow of garbage within their boundaries. The rules enabled communities not only to control prices for garbage disposal, but also to assure them of a steady source of fuel for their new plants.
In May, however, the Supreme Court struck down the contracts that allowed cities to control the flow of garbage to their plants. By ending the incinerators' monopoly on pricing, the decision leaves them more vulnerable to competition from cheaper landfills.
In another ruling in May on a separate case, the Supreme Court ruled that incinerators must treat the tons of ash they generate as hazardous waste because of elevated levels of lead and cadmium. That requires expensive special landfills.
In Columbus, officials and environmentalists differ on whether closing the incinerator is a plus for the environment.
City officials dispute the E.P.A.'s claim that its incinerator spews out more dioxin than any in the country. And they question the E.P.A.'s assessment of the extent of the potential harm to residents.
Mayor Gregory Lashutka also noted that the city built the incinerator in the early 1980's to avoid having to establish a new landfill and to protect farm land and rural areas from unwelcome dumps and unsafe groundwater.
"Without any public debate, priorities have been changed and it's putting at risk our environment and millions of tax dollars," he said.
Even if Columbus saved a few million dollars every year by dumping its trash in a landfill and closing the incinerator, it still has to pay off the $265 million debt for the plant. This could increase the cost of trash disposal for the average family to $220 a year, from $156 this year.
The decision that Columbus will soon make about its incinerator is a lot like garbage itself, said Wyatt Kingseed, the city's finance director. "Any way you look at it," he said, "there are just no attractive solutions."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "A CLOSER LOOK: Where Trash Goes" shows amount of waste-to-energy incineration plants opened each year from '78-'94, and how garbage is disposed of each year from '60-'92 in three different ways. (Sources: Governmental Advisory Associates; Environmental Protection Agency; Biocycle Magazine.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OPI (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333994 INDUSTRIAL PROCESS FURNACE & OVEN MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3567 INDUSTRIAL PROCESS FURNACES & OVENS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (58%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: OGDEN PROJECTS INC (63%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS (OHIO); UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (58%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; PRICES; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; LANDFILL; INCINERATORS TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); CLOSINGS (90%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); LANDFILLS (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (86%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); CANCER (73%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (53%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



266 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: SCENE;
A General Departs, to the Rich and Bitter Sarcasm of the People He Ruled

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Oct. 10

 BODY:
The honor guard snapped to attention, more or less -- swords brandished, red-and-blue banners flapping, rifles carefully checked by American troops to be sure they were empty -- as the Commander in Chief of the Haitian Army, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, stepped forward to make his farewell address.
Not a word he said could be heard. 
 "Thief, criminal, murderer!" the thousands of people surrounding the military headquarters shouted, drowning out the public-address system. "Handcuff Cedras. Cedras, your time is up."
In a country where theater plays a big part in politics, where the ostentatious display of brute force confers power, General Cedras's attempt at a dignified show turned into a drama of humiliation. Army officers watched stone-faced from the balcony of the peeling, white French colonial-style headquarters as the general who seized power in a coup three years ago spoke doggedly, if unintelligibly -- his glittering gold-trimmed hat visor low over his eyes, the crowd jubilantly shouting.
"It's only goodbye, don't cry, don't cry," they sang, sarcastically adopting a speeded-up Creole version of "Auld Lang Syne" sung as a folk tradition at funerals here. "Just tell us goodbye, we'll see you in the sky."
Many of the insults were earthy, and some scatalogical. The obscene catcalls and chants reflected the bitterness of a struggle that human rights agencies say has cost about 3,000 lives since the coup that ousted the elected President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Since then, the military leaders have enforced their rule with plainclothes gunmen called attaches who have beaten, robbed, raped and killed in the sprawling shantytowns here and through the countryside.
Early this morning, people who had feared to walk near the government buildings began gathering. They massed around army headquarters in an area near the city center by the National Palace and parks marked by statues of Toussaint L'Ouverture, Henri Christophe and other heroes of the slave revolts that established the first black republic in 1804.
The generals who stepped down today were just the latest in a series of dictators who have bled this country, physically and economically, since its beginnings.
History has left a harsh legacy here. A tiny, light-skinned, French-speaking elite, headed by the wealthy "five families" rules over black, Creole-speaking masses living in the worst poverty in the Western Hemisphere. A predatory state has enforced its will not only with the police and army but also with gunmen known generically as Tontons Macoute, the bogeymen of children's tales.
The last three years of military rule, interrupting the first free and fair elections in modern times, were particularly divisive. Even the economic sanctions intended to put pressure on the military resulted in more profit for rich civilians and the army hierarchy, much of it from smuggling and drug-running. In the mornings, bodies were left in the streets as a warning.
The arrival of the American military three weeks ago began to change that -- at least for now -- and it was American soldiers who orchestrated General Cedras's departure ceremony today.
Olive-drab armored vehicles were parked around the headquarters and a cordon of American military policemen held the crowd back. There was a brief flurry late in the morning, as shots were fired when people surged around General Cedras's departing car, some throwing bottles or rocks. The shots were apparently fired into the air by the general's bodyguards and there were no reports of injuries. American soldiers shouted for everyone to get down, and much of the crowd scattered.
But for the most part, the mood this morning was one of joy rather than vengeance seeking. People danced, carrying an American flag over their heads, and waved the tree branches that are a symbol of President Aristide's political movement. Some climbed into trees to see better. When the United States commander here, Lieut. Gen. Hugh Shelton, appeared wearing his distinctive paratrooper's maroon beret, there were cheers of "Shel-TON."
The Haitian honor guard soon slumped back into its customary lackadaisical posture. The army band was hooted and jeered as it marched off, the drummers and tuba player lurching over a speed bump in the road.
"Aristide, Aristide, down with the army," the crowd chanted and, with a reference to a phrase in the President's 1990 inaugural address -- that there was a "marriage between the army and the people" -- someone remarked, "We have a divorce."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Haitians delighted at the imminent jdeparture of their military rulers gathering yesterday for the resignation speech of Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras. (Librado Romera/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; PORT-AU-PRINCE (HAITI); HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (59%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); COUPS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); MURDER (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); FAMILY (71%); FOLKLORE (70%); ELECTIONS (69%); SLUM DWELLINGS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: KIFNER, JOHN; CEDRAS, RAOUL (LT GEN) RAOUL CEDRAS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



267 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: THE U.N.;
Iraq's Attempt to Have Sanctions Lifted Quickly May Have Backfired

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 10

 BODY:
By his show of force near the border with Kuwait, President Saddam Hussein of Iraq may have harmed his chances of having economic sanctions lifted early.
The Iraqi troop movements were the culmination of a campaign of belligerence aimed as much at the United Nations as at Kuwait. 
 For a week before the troop movements, diplomats and officials were mystified by a spate of angry statements from Baghdad threatening retaliation if the Security Council did not act swiftly to start dismantling the sanctions imposed on Iraq after the Persian Gulf war.
As these statements were being made, a United Nations team of experts was in Iraq for a final inspection of a monitoring system to insure that Baghdad was no longer producing or buying weapons of mass destruction, as demanded under Security Council Resolution 687 of April 1991. The experts' report will be turned over to the Council this week.
Iraq had taken the position that with the monitoring system in place, the Security Council was obliged to ease the sanctions, which prohibit Baghdad from exporting oil. In the Council, there were differences on how to respond.
France and Russia, to whom Iraq owes huge sums, argued that the United Nations should consider a timetable for lifting restrictions after the monitoring system had been tested.
The United States and Britain took a tougher line, saying that President Hussein's intentions had also to be tested -- along with the monitoring system -- for an unspecified time before the Security Council could consider lifting sanctions. The next formal review of Iraqi compliance is not due until mid-November.
China, the fifth permanent member of the Security Council, is generally opposed to all sanctions because of the precedent they set.
But if President Hussein thought he could widen the split and isolate the United States from its European allies, he may have miscalculated badly, diplomats and officials say.
As a result of the troop movements, Iraq's supporters on this issue will have a harder time making Baghdad's case, a Western diplomat said.
"Saddam Hussein has a way of shooting himself in the foot," the diplomat said, adding that most people believed the Iraqi troop movement was no more than posturing. It was accompanied by a verbal attack on the United States on Friday full of bombast and bathos by Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz.
But the response from Washington was strong enough for Iraq to announce today that it was withdrawing its troops. President Clinton, however, said that the United States had seen no evidence so far of a withdrawal and it was adding more firepower to its Persian Gulf forces.
Furthermore, in answering Mr. Aziz on Friday, Madeleine K. Albright, the chief United States delegate to the United Nations, again raised a host of other charges against Iraq, including failure to account for Kuwaiti prisoners and return Kuwaiti property.
Iraq, Ms. Albright said, "has sought to evade, ignore and negotiate away its obligations.
"The only approach it has not tried," she added, "is compliance."
In wanting to delay lifting sanctions, the United States has some support from the Special Commission, an independent organization within the United Nations that has put into place an extraordinary array of sophisticated monitoring systems. The commission, working with the International Atomic Energy Agency, organized the destruction of Iraqi weapons after the war.
The head of the commission, Rolf Ekeus of Sweden, said last week after visiting Iraq that the systems were functioning. But experts on the panel are known to want at least six months to prove both the workability of the technology and the good faith of the Iraqi Government.
There are also gaps in documentation turned over to the commission, including information on past purchases and old weapons programs. The commission has a team of 70 to 80 people in Baghdad, from technical experts to helicopter crews authorized to fly them on unannounced searches. Biological, chemical and nuclear weapons programs are prohibited, as are missile systems.
In any event, diplomats say, there is no hope of easing sanctions until Iraq recognizes Kuwait's current borders -- and does so at the highest possible level, the Revolutionary Command Council.
The Iraqis have argued that Baghdad can do this only when the clock has started on an agreed time limit for testing the monitoring systems and Iraq can be reasonably sure there will be no other last-minute demands by the United States.
"Kuwait is Iraq's last card," said Jean-Bernard Merimee, France's representative to the United Nations. "Iraq has to be sure that after the recognition of Kuwait, the Security Council will move to lift sanctions." He added that there was a growing sense that Iraq cannot be cornered indefinitely without the danger of President Hussein becoming even more threatening.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LEGISLATION: The Resolutions Against Iraq"
 
U.N. REQUIREMENTS
 Section C. of the Security Council Resolution passed on April 3, 1991:
 Requires Iraq to destroy biological, chemical and ballistic missiles with a range more than 150 km and their production facilities.
Requires Iraq to declare locations, amounts and types of all above weapons, agree to urgent on-site inspection by the United Nations special commission on Iraq or the International Atomic Energy Agency and develop a plan for future monitoring and verification of these weapons.
Asks Iraq to fulfill its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
Requires Iraq to inform the Security Council that it will not commit or support any acts of international terrorism.
Requires that Iraq compensate Kuwait for any losses incurred during its invasion.
 
WHAT IRAQ SAYS
 Tariq Aziz told the General Assembly last Friday that Iraq had complied fully with the section C of the resolution 687 and argued that sanctions be lifted.
 
WHAT THE U.S. SAYS
The U.S. insists that sanctions should not be lifted because Iraq has not given a full accounting of the full capacity of biological and chemical weapons.
It says it doesn't know how long Iraq will comply with the monitoring system.
It says Iraq has failed to account for the oppression of Kurds and Shiit Muslims.
It says Iraq failed to renounce international terrorism.
They have not recognized Kuwait as a sovereign state.
The U.S. says Iraq's current military maneuver suggests that it has not demonstrated acceptance of peace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); KUWAIT (94%); GULF STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); KUWAIT (94%); GULF STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (70%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



268 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: POLITICS;
Aristide Is Now Facing Daunting Job of Restoration

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
As the military rulers in Haiti stepped down, President Jean-Bertrand Aristide spent today trying to decide precisely how he will run the country, whom to name as prime minister and who among a jostling crowd of American politicians will be on the airplane that takes him home.
With his flight to Haiti five days away, the exiled President has neither formally announced who will serve alongside him nor revealed his immediate plans upon returning to power, worrying some White House officials who want assurances of stability for Haiti's future. 
 The White House has been prodding Father Aristide to pick a prime minister with palpably moderate politics, roots among the Haitian elite and a history of working with American Embassy officials -- preferably Robert Malval, a wealthy publisher who was Prime Minister when the President was overthrown in 1991. But Father Aristide is keeping his intentions to himself.
His only political act today was to sign a decree expressing his agreement with the law on amnesty passed on Friday by the Haitian Parliament. The law fell short of the general amnesty sought by the head of the Haitian junta, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, leaving the leaders of the 1991 coup that toppled President Aristide potentially vulnerable to charges of corruption and murder.
The failure to win a complete amnesty was a factor in the general's decision to leave Haiti, United States officials said.
A senior Administration official said that with General Cedras departing for an undisclosed destination, the rest of the military-led government would dissolve this week. He said he thought that cabinet ministers appointed by General Cedras would vacate their offices and that ministers who served under President Aristide would return to work.
"He has a cabinet, and our hope is that they'll be able to go back to work this week," the Administration official said. Some of the 20,000 American troops in Haiti will be "protecting the functioning of the government, protecting the Parliament," he said.
The resistance to Father Aristide among the Haitian military and police remains strong, so strong that United States forces in Haiti are planning to sweep important government buildings for bombs and booby traps before he returns, State Department officials said today.
Still, it has been clear since the arrival of American troops permitted some free expressions of political opinion in Haiti that the overwhelming majority of Haitians -- certainly the 67.5 percent of the electorate who voted for him in 1990 -- will be overjoyed to see him back.
"I am pleased to announce that President Aristide will return home to resume his rightful place this Saturday," President Clinton said in his televised speech tonight. "I also want to caution again, the job in Haiti remains difficult and dangerous. We still have a lot of work ahead of us. But our troops are keeping America's commitment to restore democracy."
It is possible that Secretary of State Warren Christopher will accompany Father Aristide to Haiti on Saturday. But a large number of American supporters of the Haitian President also want very much to be on that plane. They include the Rev. Jesse Jackson, several members of Congress and Randall Robinson, whose hunger strike on Father Aristide's behalf this year is widely credited with focusing Mr. Clinton's attention on the Haitian situation.
From the moment Father Aristide sets foot on Haitian soil after more than three years in exile, he will face the task of building a democratic government in a nation that has never known one. The economic and social foundations of the country are in ruins.
Within days after his return, a trickle and then a flood of financial and material aid is supposed to descend on Haiti. The United States is setting up a jobs program that in theory will put 50,000 Haitians to work by 1995.
Fifteen nations have pledged $77 million in contributions that will wipe out most of Haiti's debts to international financial institutions, allowing new loans to flow in.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); COUPS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); AMNESTY (72%); CORRUPTION (51%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); MALVAL, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



269 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
To build Minolta's visibility and market share, a new campaign lets slip a watchdog of copiers.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
GEORGE LOIS was barking.
No, Mr. Lois, the flamboyant chairman and chief executive at Lois/USA in New York, hasn't gone mad. Rather, he woofed to act out a campaign for a new client, the Minolta Corporation, which centers on a dog. 
 Mr. Lois, the initiator since 1949 of what he likes to call "big ideas," was inspired by Minolta's description of the central processing units within its CS-Pro series of copiers as "hidden electronic watchdogs." They guard against paper jams and other malfunctions, and even automatically make telephone calls to dealer service departments.
So Mr. Lois is bringing the watchdogs to life with an actual watchdog. That befits an adman who granted powers of speech to oranges, tomatoes and vodka bottles in a memorable campaign for Wolfschmidt's; urged Braniff airlines customers that "when you got it -- flaunt it," and encouraged rock stars to shout "I want my MTV!"
"The watchdog is a personality, a brand image, fun and dramatic," Mr. Lois said in an interview, switching to English from dogtalk. "It's an icon in the best commercial sense."
The print, broadcast and outdoor campaign begins Thursday. Television commercials depict executives patting and praising their watchdog copiers -- and leaving one a dish filled with dog food.
The watchdog is "a beautiful, elegant, open-faced" German shepherd called Freeway because before his career as an ad star, he was found on one, Mr. Lois said.
"There's not a German shepherd in America we didn't look at," he added, laughing. "People would say, 'I'd like a watchdog with a little bit of a smile.' "
Freeway's appearance is also appropriate because of the intensely competitive nature of the nation's copier market, which is a veritable catfight (just kidding). Dataquest Inc., a consulting company in San Jose, Calif., estimates revenue last year at $7.4 billion, up 8.8 percent from 1992. That figure has risen steadily from 1990, when it totaled $5.9 billion, as American businesses expanded after the recession -- or white-collar workers, laid off from corporate jobs, bought copiers for home offices.
Minolta's 4 percent of the American copier market, according to Dataquest, put the company in a four-way tie for sixth place with Ricoh, Lanier and Konica. The leaders were Xerox, at 32 percent; Canon, 18 percent, and Sharp, 8 percent. Eastman Kodak and Mita, with 7 percent each, tied for fourth.
"Our goal is to be in the top three in the next two to three years," said David Scofield, advertising director for Minolta's business equipment division in Ramsey, N.J., who joined Mr. Lois for the interview.
Did the client ever wonder whether Mr. Lois's idea of a dog would turn out to be a dog of an idea?
"It's a low-interest category," Mr. Scofield said. "You only think of your copier when it isn't working."
To rise in the rankings, he added, "we needed something wild like this. We couldn't do that with blandness."
Still, there is a fine line between a simple ad and a simple-minded ad.
"Advertising should be seemingly outrageous," Mr. Lois said, "but not be nuts."
Mr. Scofield asserted that "the beauty is the simplicity" and the watchdog was "tied totally to the technology."
"There's no better symbol to communicate that," he said.
In defense of Freeway, other copier marketers employ creatures in their ads, too: Konica has a lion and Mita uses dinosaurs.
Minolta plans to spend $2 million on the campaign during the next six months. The television spots will run in 10 local markets like Chicago, Los Angeles and New York. The print ads will run in publications like Business Week, Forbes and Newsweek.
The campaign is the first for Minolta by Lois/USA since the agency was hired in May after a three-month review. The account, with billings estimated at $7 million to $10 million, was consolidated after being previously divided between Bozell New York and Campbell Mithun Esty in New York.
To underscore the breadth of the company's products, the copier campaign also lists Minolta products like cameras, fax machines, digital imaging systems and video camcorders. The ads retain a corporate theme, "Only from the mind of Minolta," that has run since 1983.
"It's a terrific, well-remembered line," Mr. Lois said, "but it needed excitement."
Mr. Lois is the subject of an exhibit through Oct. 21 at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan, the sixth in a series honoring "great visual communicators." As a result, Minolta has already achieved a measure of fame for the copier campaign: he shrewdly included it among his current work on display.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RICOP (PAR) (51%); RICO (LSE) (51%); 7752 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5043 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (72%); NAICS425120 WHOLESALE TRADE AGENTS & BROKERS (72%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: LOIS/USA; MINOLTA CORP MINOLTA CORP (72%); DATAQUEST INC (64%); RICOH CO LTD (51%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOIS/USA; MINOLTA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: COPYING MACHINES; DOGS; ADVERTISING; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); DOGS (90%); PHOTOCOPIERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PHOTOCOPIER MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKET SHARE (85%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); PET FOODS (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); POP & ROCK (68%); BRANDING (67%); BRAND EQUITY (67%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (61%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); 

PERSON: LOIS, GEORGE; ELLIOTT, STUART; LOIS, GEORGE GEORGE LOIS (94%); DAVID PAUL 'PAUL' SCOFIELD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



270 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Oregon, Foiling Forecasters, Thrives as It Protects Owls

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Ore., Oct. 5

 BODY:
By now, the timber communities of Oregon were supposed to be ghost towns. There was going to an epidemic of foreclosures, a recession so crippling it would mean "we'll be up to our neck in owls, and every millworker will be out of a job," as President George Bush predicted two years ago while campaigning in the Northwest.
Politicians in both parties agreed. The villain was the northern spotted owl, an endangered bird fond of the same ancient national forests desired by loggers. When restrictions on logging were ordered in 1991 to protect the bird, Michael Burrill spoke for many of his fellow Oregon timber mill owners when he said, "They just created Appalachia in the Northwest." 
 But economic calamity has never looked so good. Three years into a drastic curtailment of logging in Federal forests, Oregon, the top timber-producing state, has posted its lowest unemployment rate in a generation, just over 5 percent.
What was billed as an agonizing choice of jobs versus owls has proved to be neither, thus far. Oregon is still the nation's timber basket, producing more than 5 billion board feet a year. (Ten thousand board feet are used to build the average house.) But instead of using 300-year-old trees from public land to make 2-by-4's, mills are relying on wood from tree farms, most of them belonging to private landowners. And the mills are getting more out of the timber, using parts that used to be discarded.
In the last five years, Oregon lost 15,000 jobs in forest products. But it gained nearly 20,000 jobs in high technology, with companies like Hewlett-Packard, which makes computer parts, expanding considerably in the state. By early next year, for the first time in history, high technology will surpass timber as the leading source of jobs in the Beaver State. And timber workers are being retrained for some of those jobs, particularly in manufacturing.
Instead of spectral monuments to the spotted owl, many parts of the state have reached what economists call full employment -- a jobless level of about 5 percent that the experts say will not cause inflation and where people are usually unemployed by choice. And there are signs of impending labor shortages, according to state economists. In the last year alone, the state's growing economy has added nearly 100,000 jobs -- the exact amount the timber industry said would be lost with the restrictions.
Even the most timber-dependent counties in southern Oregon report rising property values and a net increase in jobs.
But some in the timber industry say the crash is yet to come. Many mills are using trees that should not have been cut because they are too small, said Chris West, a spokesman for the Northwest Forestry Association, an industry group based in Portland.
"The small woodlot market blossomed more than anyone expected," Mr. West said. "But it's going to be short-term."
Asked about the job-loss figure of 100,000, Mr. West said, "We don't think the hammer has hit yet."
As for the loggers and millworkers who have already lost their jobs, most of them did not become minimum-wage hamburger flippers, as predicted. At Lane Community College in Springfield, the nation's largest center for retraining displaced woodworkers, nearly 9 of every 10 people going through the program have found new jobs, at an average wage of $9.02 an hour, about $1 an hour less than the average timber industry wage. They are becoming auto mechanics, accountants, cabinetmakers and health care workers.
"So many people say this is the best thing to ever happen to them," said Jeff Wilson, a former millworker from the town of Mapleton, who is just finishing his retraining program and plans to become a community service worker. "I was brain-dead at the mill, never thought I'd do anything else. Now, it's like the world has opened up."
The big question on retraining, one that President Clinton brought half the Cabinet here to discuss at the timber summit in the spring of 1993, was what a timber worker could be retrained to do. It turned out to be a simple answer, said Patti Lake, who runs the retraining program.
"I'm so sick of the Paul Bunyan stereotype about these people," Ms. Lake said. "They come to us because they know there are better jobs than burger-flipping. They're just people who graduated from high school and went to work in the mill or the woods. Now, they're becoming the accountant who does my taxes or the mechanic who fixes my car."
To be sure, there are pockets of poverty in the smaller, more remote timber towns of Oregon. The aid package promised by President Clinton, $1.2 billion over five years, has only begun to trickle in. Under the President's plan, the timber cut in national forests will be about one-fourth of what it was in the 1980's.
Places like Sweet Home and Oakridge have lost Main Street businesses as the mills have closed. Auctions of heavy equipment used to haul and mill giant trees are common.
But no county in Oregon has an unemployment rate higher than 7.8 percent, and in some rural counties, the rate is about 2 percent, compared with the national rate of 5.9 percent. Also, few people seem to be leaving. During the last period of timber layoffs, from 1981 to 1987, Oregon lost population. Last year, the population grew by 40,000 people.
And as the number of logging jobs has fallen, the average wage here has risen. In 1988, the peak year for timber cutting, wage levels here were 88 percent of the national average. This year, they are 93 percent.
In 1991, Representative Bob Smith, a Republican from the eastern part of the state, said the logging restrictions "will take us to the bottom of a black hole." And that year Representative Peter A. DeFazio, a Democrat who represents the biggest timber-producing district in the nation, in south and western Oregon, sketched a picture of widespread devastation.
But here in Lane County, in Mr. DeFazio's district, the unemployment rate is 4.8 percent. Mr. DeFazio, who still predicts some economic downturn, said he has been pleasantly surprised by some of the positive developments.
"I met a guy my age, a timber worker who was being retrained to become a nurse," he recalled. "A nurse! He said, 'Yeah, it's the fulfillment of a lifetime dream.' "
Springfield, the blue-collar neighbor of Eugene, across the Willamette River, has landed a new Sony Corporation factory, where compact discs will be manufactured. It may employ 1,500 people within five years, at salaries that will start at better than $30,000 a year.
"It wasn't blind, dumb luck that helped us land Sony," said Mayor Bill Morrisette of Springfield. The company wanted a pristine place on the river, he said.
Using some money from President Clinton's forest recovery package, the town offered Sony $8 million in tax abatements and incentives. In return, Sony promised to pay people at least 10 percent above the national average. Today, the factory is rising on farmland just miles from the woods that have been shut down to logging to protect the spotted owl.
"Owls versus jobs was just plain false," Mr. Morrisette said. "What we've got here is quality of life. And as long as we don't screw that up, we'll always be able to attract people and business."
And even though numerous timber mills have closed in Springfield because they could no longer get the big trees, newer, leaner operations like Springfield Forest Products are hiring. The Springfield mill, which was shut in 1989, was retooled to use small-dimension wood from tree farms. When it was owned by Georgia Pacific, the mill relied on old-growth timber from national forests.
The mill now employs 450 people.
"A lot of people were afraid of change," said Scott Slaughter, the personnel manager, a third-generation timber worker. "But I see a real future here."
Ed Whitelaw, a professor of economics at the University of Oregon in Eugene, was one of a handful of economists who predicted that job losses would be minimal and that Oregon, because of its attractive scenery and low property costs, would thrive.
"These 100,000-job-loss figures were just fallacious; they came out of a political agenda," Dr. Whitelaw said. "Yet when I would say this, I was dismissed as an Earth-Firster or something."
Mr. Burrill, who owns a timber mill in Medford, Ore., was asked about his statement that saving the spotted owl would create Appalachia in the Northwest.
"We've had an awful lot of new industry, and that's surprised me," he said. He said people moving to southern Oregon from California are not all retirees, as the stereotype has it.
"They are bringing jobs with them," he said. "Turns out there's a hell of a lot going on."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Although Oregon has lost about 15,000 timber-related jobs in five years, there is still plenty of activity at mills like the one in Springfield, near Eugene, where these workers were turning out sheets of plywood on Friday. (John Giustina for The New York Times) (pg. A19)
 
Graph: "ECONOMICS: A Recovery in Oregon" shows Oregon's unemployment rate from '79-'94, and employment jin Oregon's timber and high-technology manufacturing and service industries from '79-'94. (Source: Oregon Employment Department) (pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (95%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON; UNITED STATES (95%); OREGON, USA (95%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; OWLS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; PUBLIC PROPERTY LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BIRDS (90%); SAW MILLS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (89%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TRENDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (74%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (66%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (51%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



271 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: IRAQ;
Kuwait Crisis: Hussein Gambles to Keep Power

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
Saddam Hussein's latest confrontation with the United States illustrates both the success and the failure of Washington's handling of the Iraqi leader.
The success is that two successive Administrations have managed to maintain crippling global sanctions on Iraq that have created an economic crisis so desperate that President Hussein felt cornered. But instead of recognizing the sovereignty and the borders of Kuwait, a condition set by the United Nations for easing the sanctions, he moved 70,000 troops toward the country that his troops invaded in 1990. 
That troop mobilization highlights the policy failure: three years after the end of the gulf war, Mr. Hussein remains firmly entrenched in power.
The result is that even if statements by Iraq that it is pulling its troops away from Kuwait are true, Mr. Hussein will have proved once again that he can force the United States to send tens of thousands of troops to confront him; if he is not ousted from power, he will prove he is a political survivor as well.
In his 15 years as President, Mr. Hussein has ruled by ruthlessly suppressing all opposition. But his Government does not rule by terror alone. It has survived because it has always been supple enough to respond to the basic physical needs of the people. The philosophy of governing is best expressed in two Arabic words: tarhib (terror) and targhib (enticement).
But in the past year, that delicate structure has crumbled.
"There was only terrorizing," said Amatzia Baram, chairman of the Department of Middle East History at Haifa University. "There was no longer enticement."
Mr. Hussein was forced by the sanctions to allow the United Nations to scrap his weapons of mass destruction, set up an elaborate and humiliating monitoring system of his arms industry and take increasingly tough economic measures. That hurt the Iraqi people, fueled discontent and brought Mr. Hussein to what some Iraqi scholars say was an inevitable decision to take dramatic action.
After retail prices soared last year, Mr. Hussein decided to accept Security Council Resolution 715, which set up the weapons-inspection system; as a result of his compliance, he promised his people, sanctions would "dissipate."
Instead, the sanctions remained in place and prices soared again. Even President Hussein's son Uday used his newspaper Babil to criticize officials who promoted compliance with the United Nations demands, although he never attacked his father by name.
After the Iraqi dinar lost half its value last May, Uday Hussein criticized Iraq's Prime Minister and Finance Minister for their inability to control inflation.
So President Hussein added the portfolio of Prime Minister to his responsibilities as President, Commander in Chief and head of the Baath Party. He also turned the ruling Revolutionary Command Council into an economic body that made decisions on such issues as how much two pounds of sugar should cost.
The economic crisis worsened last month, when the Security Council again decided not to lift the sanctions. On Sept. 25, Mr. Hussein halved monthly food rations, and food prices doubled in one day.
The economic pressure coincided with mounting political pressure. In September last year, there were reports that a bomb had exploded in front of Mr. Hussein's motorcade in Baghdad; last May a car bomb exploded at a place where his motorcade was expected to pass.
Purges and executions followed each incident, and during recent months Mr. Hussein has even purged officials from the Duri clan, a center of his support, and the clan of Izzat Ibrahim, officially his second in command.
Mr. Hussein has answered each setback with more stringent proclamations: He has imposed strict Islamic punishments of amputations of a hand or a foot for thievery, and announced that deserters from the Armed Forces risk losing one or both ears. A repeat deserter may have an X branded on his forehead.
"Iraq has been a sleeper," said Phebe Marr, senior fellow at the National Defense University and a historian who has written extensively on Iraq. "He was running out of time and patience and had to do something to convince his people he was in charge and taking action to get the sanctions lifted. Sooner or later something like this was going to happen."
By mobilizing troops, President Hussein proved once again that he is more a military leader willing to bully than a statesman capable of diplomatic maneuvering.
Mr. Hussein was apparently convinced that even if he complied with United Nations resolutions, the United States would not allow the Security Council to ease sanctions. He ignored repeated advice from France, Turkey and Russia that they would support the lifting of some sanctions if he would fulfill Security Council resolutions and recognize Kuwait and its borders.
Instead he has always said that Iraq's isolation from the sea was a cruel accident of colonial history, and at one point after his invasion of Kuwait he called the tiny nation "a part of Iraq's land" that was "cut off by English scissors."
So it is not surprising that he found it particularly galling after the Gulf War when the United Nations formally redrew the Kuwaiti border to give part of Iraq's only port at Umm Qasr to Kuwait.
"Had Saddam come up with a satisfactory statement on Kuwait, the coalition would have softened further and compelled the United States to confront the sanctions issue," said Ms. Marr. "But he didn't, and my interpretation is that he wasn't close to it yet."
A key to his thinking came on Sept. 27, when he told journalists that he would open for the Iraqi people "all the granaries of the world," a signal that he was poised to take dramatic action. "Tell the people that honor is more important than bread," he urged the journalists.
That was followed on Oct. 4 with an editorial in Al Jumhuriya, the Government-run newspaper, that warned, "The first and second world wars were caused by the imposition of borders on Germany without negotiations or German approval."
Two days later an editorial in the same newspaper said, "When one realizes that death is one's inexorable fate, there remains nothing to deter one from taking the riskiest steps to influence the course of events."
Even if President Hussein withdraws his troops, as his officials today said he had done, his military actions are an unwelcome reminder of the unfinished business of the gulf war.
"By moving his units south, he created excitement that his people will not forget for a while," said Mr. Baram, of Haifa University. "He can pull back and maybe there will be a few weeks of relief. But Saddam is bound to haunt us as long as he is he there. He would rather die than be forgotten."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqis carried posters of Saddam Hussein during a demonstration in Baghdad yesterday. (Agence France-Presse); Economic hardships, which President Saddam Hussein says have been caused by United Nations sanctions, led to a 50 percent cut in food rations. Residents of Baghdad lined up Sunday for their reduced rations. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) ARMED FORCES (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); POLITICS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); INFLATION (75%); QUALITY CONTROL (75%); HISTORY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (63%); TRENDS (63%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



272 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
L.T.'s Rush Helped Sack Phil Simms

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON 

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.

 BODY:
BY the time the workout was over, a couple dozen kids were outside the practice field, in the shadow of Giants Stadium, waiting for the quarterback. Like a horde of sleepy buffalo, the other players trudged out the gate, past the kids, into the parking lot, toward the locker room.
Finally, as the quarterback appeared, the notebooks and pens converged in the manner of a ritual circle dance. Dave Brown, who now appears to carry whatever hopes remain for a serious football future in northern New Jersey, smiled, and began to sign. 
 Someone asked Brown about the crushing interception he'd thrown in New Orleans, if he was going to bounce back. "I think I've already showed I could respond in the second half," he said, not yet knowing that this question would dog him for yet another week after the Giants' 27-10 loss to the Minnesota Vikings.
It may have been Lawrence Taylor Night at Giants Stadium last night, but the most important message delivered was that the Giants are getting exactly what they bargained for when they cut Phil Simms. This is Dave Brown's ride, for better or worse, or both.
And you might say that L. T., whose storybook career was all about getting his mitts on quarterbacks, had a hand in what we are watching now.
Phil Simms wasn't expected at halftime of the Giants-Vikings game to applaud the retirement of Taylor's No. 56. The excuse was his analyst's job at ESPN. The speculation was that there was lingering anger toward the Giants. Maybe in the back of Simms's mind, there is also some disgust that Taylor should go out on his own terms, while he could not.
There ought to be. Taylor sure did contribute his share to the current work rules that got Simms canned. He was one of the worst offenders of unity in the players' strike in 1987, even though no one seemed to remember this during the spate of recent tributes.
First Taylor distanced himself from teammates, then he crossed and played with scab replacements, announcing: "The Giants are losing. And I'm losing $60,000 a week."
In the context of the current labor wars, imagine what excoriation Bobby Bonilla and Barry Bonds could expect if they took that attitude next spring.
Maybe that was last night's underlying moral. As great a defensive player as Taylor was, perhaps the greatest of all, there are all sorts of legendary Giants, championship Giants, who never got their jerseys retired. Few got to dictate the terms of their departures.
It is old news now. A couple more victories, it will be forgotten. The acceptance of Dave Brown, out of Westfield, N.J., occurred even before the autumn leaves had a chance to turn, much less fall. George Young and Dan Reeves could not have dreamed that their orchestrated coup would have gone this well this soon when they cut Simms last June.
Brown's not likely to carry these Giants to the Super Bowl, but let's be honest, neither was Simms. The decision to dump the best quarterback in Giant history stemmed from that realization. It was time, the Giants decided, for the man who was younger, stronger and faster.
Simms decided to focus blame on the new National Football League salary cap, but salary caps don't decide which players get cut. General managers do. Coaches do. In Simms's case, the salary cap was less the reason than it was the weapon.
They cut Simms because they decided they could live without him, and because the hard N.F.L. salary cap punishes any team which keeps players who are past their prime or struggling to recapture their health.
That's what happens when players don't collectively fight for their rights, when they throw themselves at one-sided economics espoused by the Gary Bettmans and Bud Seligs, when they trample their own picket line.
"You had to look at L. T. like he was a special case because of what he gave on the field," George Martin, who was the striking Giants' player representative, said yesterday.
Martin admitted that wasn't easy for some of the striking Giants. One of them, a reserve linebacker named Robbie Jones, understood solidarity. "If you follow Lawrence Taylor, you burn in hell," he said.
L. T., who lived on the edge, never did crash, much less burn. That doesn't mean he didn't help cause others to.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brown getting sacked. (Barton Silverman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (72%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MINNESOTA VIKINGS; NEW YORK GIANTS NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (83%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA VIKINGS; NEW YORK GIANTS NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (83%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (72%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL ATHLETES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY; BROWN, DAVID PHILIP 'PHIL' SIMMS (94%); LAWRENCE JULIUS TAYLOR (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



273 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: MacNeil to Retire From 'Newshour' In '95 After 20 Years

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
Robert MacNeil said yesterday that he would retire as a co-anchor of the "MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour" next October after 20 years with public television's nightly news program. The program, which is suffering budgetary constraints, is to close down its operation in New York and base itself in Washington.
When Mr. MacNeil steps down, Jim Lehrer is to take over as single anchor of the broadcast, which will then be retitled "The Newshour With Jim Lehrer" and originate solely from WETA in Washington. In a blow to WNET, Channel 13, in New York, the station where it began in 1975, the program and a staff that numbers about 50 will leave that station. 
 Mr. MacNeil said yesterday that he had been planning for almost two years to step down when the program reached its 20th anniversary. The pressures created by a worsening budget shortfall made it logical to consolidate the show in Washington once he retires, he said.
"We needed to make some economies if we're going to survive," Mr. MacNeil said. "The most obvious and dispensable area to cut was the duplication of studios and staffs in two cities."
Mr. MacNeil's departure was reported on Saturday by The Washington Post.
The change is one more indication that the institutions related to public television, faced with increasing competition from cable and other broadcast channels and shrinking sources of revenue, need to cut costs, said Al Vecchione, the president of MacNeil/Lehrer Productions. "The problems of public television in the year 1994 are such that it's time to think about streamlining," he said. "It's getting tougher because it's more and more competitive. Before we start to talk about the need for more money, we have to collectively think about ways to streamline."
For MacNeil/Lehrer Productions, that will mean staff cuts when the "Newshour" moves its base to Washington. Mr. MacNeil said the announcement was being made a year in advance to give staff members in New York time to think about whether to relocate. Thus, some jobs may be eliminated by attrition before the move to Washington. But Mr. Vecchione said some layoffs would undoubtedly be necessary.
The move will also be costly to WNET, as "MacNeil/Lehrer" is probably the most prestigious program to come from the station. "You can't take away the prestige we've already had because of the program," said William F. Baker, the president of WNET. "I want them to do whatever is best for them, but selfishly, of course, I would prefer it to be in New York."
The change also comes at a time when WNET is already faced with continuing budget shortfalls. Channel 13's financial crisis had significant impact on the strategy MacNeil/Lehrer Productions worked out for its future.
"They've been through all these agonizing reappraisals of their finances," Mr. MacNeil said. "They've had cuts and cuts and cuts. Then they came to that tentative decision to close down their studio."
WNET told the "MacNeil/Lehrer" producers in June that the station was so short of money it might have to shut down its studio, forcing the program to find a new place in New York from which to broadcast Mr. MacNeil's portion of the program.
Although Mr. MacNeil said the problem with studio cost was not crucial to the decision to move to Washington, some "MacNeil/Lehrer" staff members criticized Channel 13 for failing to manage its finances more efficiently. "For 15 years they have not changed the way they've done business," said one staff member, speaking on condition of anonymity. He said WNET had finally decided to keep the studio up and running for "MacNeil/Lehrer" at least through June, at an additional cost of $500,000 to the program.
Mr. Baker disputed the $500,000 figure and said Channel 13 "subsidized the program for years." He said the station's financial and labor issues were "phenomenally complex." He also said the loss of "MacNeil/Lehrer" would not necessarily mean the end of the station's studio facilities. But he conceded, "It will make our situation that much more complicated."
Mr. Vecchione said the financial problems of "MacNeil/Lehrer" mirror those of public television as a whole. "The sources of funding are all either down or flat," he said.
"PBS memberships are down," he said, specifically blaming competition from other television for that decrease. "Corporate underwriting was down 16 percent last year and is down again this year."
"MacNeil/Lehrer" has a budget this year of just under $25 million, down from $26 million a year ago. Two years ago, the program had two underwriters, Pepsico and AT&T, each of which donated $6 million. Then AT&T dropped out. "MacNeil/ Lehrer" replaced them with Archer Daniels Midland and New York Life, which, along with Pepsico, each gave $4.4 million.
But Pepsico dropped out last year. Archer Daniels Midland increased its contribution to $6.4 million, but overall the program now takes in only $10.8 million in corporate underwriting, as opposed to $12 million two years ago. The other revenue sources, public television stations and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, have been essentially flat, Mr. Vecchione said.
"The shortfall was going to gradually deepen," Mr. MacNeil said, without the consolidation of the two bases of operations for the program. He added that since the program had gravitated toward more news generated out of Washington, having a single anchor there made a lot of sense.
After Mr. MacNeil leaves, the program will use subanchors for individual stories, Mr. Vecchione said. The overall goal of the consolidation, he said, is to provide for the long-term future of the "Newshour." "We want this program to go on long after all of us have left it," he said.
Mr. MacNeil said he would pursue his other careers, as a writer of fiction and nonfiction and as an independent producer and an anchor of television specials.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert MacNeil in the studio just before yesterday's broadcast. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MCNEIL/LEHRER NEWSHOUR (TV PROGRAM); NEWSHOUR WITH JIM LEHRER, THE (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: WNET (TV STATION) (NYC); WETA-TV AND RADIO (WASHINGTON, DC) WASHINGTON POST CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WNET (TV STATION) (NYC); WETA-TV AND RADIO (WASHINGTON, DC)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (74%); DISMISSALS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); RELOCATIONS (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (53%); 

PERSON: LEHRER, JIM; CARTER, BILL; MACNEIL, ROBERT; LEHRER, JIM MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



274 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
International
 For foreign investors, Russia is too big a business opportunity to avoid, despite the crashing ruble and rising crime. In recent months, American and foreign investment funds and companies have been pouring in money, taking stakes in promising Russian enterprises. They are betting that the nation's industrial core remains badly undervalued and that in the long run big parts of it will prove to be vibrant and profitable. [Page A1.] 
Cosmetics companies are forging ahead in Eastern Europe despite its seemingly small prospects for profits. Estee Lauder, Guerlain and Christian Dior see big potential and are trying to get established with modest initial investments. [D1.]
 
Companies
 A South African company will buy S. D. Warren for $1.6 billion. The purchase of the Scott Paper unit by Sappi Ltd. of Johannesburg would be the largest American investment by a South African company in more than 20 years, executives said. [D1.]
 Ernst & Young dismissed about 240 people involved with its legal work, including 37 of its 65 lawyers. [D2.]
 Sprint is in talks with big cable television operators about collaborating on a nationwide wireless telephone network. [D5.]
 Shares of both Apple Computer and I.B.M. continued to climb on reports that the companies were close to a common hardware standard. [D5.] A company mentioned in speculation on the talks, Motorola, reported a sharp rise in third-quarter earnings. [D5.]
 Panhandle Eastern will buy Associated Natural Gas for $830 million in stock and assumed debt. The deal reflects the new consolidation and integration in the natural gas industry. [D5.]
 R. J. Reynolds Tobacco plans to introduce a cigarette that leaves less of a lingering stale smell. [D5.]
 New drugs from both Biogen and Teva Pharmaceutical seem to be effective in slowing the progression of multiple sclerosis. [C5.]
 
The Economy
 The Federal Reserve is unlikely to raise rates again until the next meeting of its top policy committee on Nov. 15 even as further increases seem increasingly inevitable. Several officials at the central bank say they want to see more data on the economy before deciding when to act again. News Analysis. [D1.]
 Stainless steel is booming as producers find new uses for the metal. Auto makers have increasingly been equipping cars and light trucks with exhaust systems made of stainless steel. [D1.]
 No-haggle selling by car dealers is being investigated by the Justice Department as part of an inquiry into auto pricing. [D1.]
 The incinerator industry is endangered as more towns cancel plans to build plants that convert waste to energy. [A18.]
 
Markets
 Technology and auto issues led stocks higher. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 23.89 points. [D8.]
 Treasury futures were slightly higher, while the Treasury market was closed in observance of Columbus Day. [D16.]
 Crude oil prices fell sharply after Iraq said it would retreat from the Kuwaiti border. Coffee prices tumbled. [D17.]
 The dollar slipped a bit in thin trading, after the threat of a war in the Persian Gulf faded. [D17.]
 
Today's Columns
 TRW is much more than a credit reporting company. What has attracted investors to TRW is the company's strength in the rapidly growing air bag business. Market Place. [D8.]
 A German shepherd is the star of Lois/USA's new campaign for Minolta copiers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: SPP (NYSE) (83%); CDI (PAR) (57%); EL (NYSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (53%); TEVA (TASE) (53%); TEVA (NYSE) (53%); ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (83%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (59%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (59%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (59%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (57%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (57%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (57%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (56%); 

COMPANY: SAPPI LTD (83%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (59%); GUERLAIN SA (57%); CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (57%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (53%); TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (53%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); NATURAL GAS (86%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (85%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); PAPER MFG (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); COSMETICS (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); TOILETRIES MFG (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); TOBACCO MFG (69%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); COFFEE MARKETS (60%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (60%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (60%); COFFEE (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); BOND MARKETS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (52%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (52%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (51%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (50%); 

PERSON: ESTEE LAUDER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



275 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Stainless Steel Widens Appeal

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH

 BODY:
The rusted tailpipe may be going the way of the side-vent window. In recent years, auto makers have increasingly been equipping cars and light trucks with rust-resistant exhaust systems made of stainless steel. By the 1996 model year, virtually every car produced in North America is expected to have a stainless steel exhaust system.
Stainless steel is also making its way into household chimney liners, energy-efficient storm windows and a host of other applications in which consumers' demand for durability and quality has overtaken manufacturers' tendency to opt for the cheapest solution. 
 Indeed, finding new uses for corrosion-resistant stainless steel is one reason that producers of the material have found theirs to be an erosion-resistant market, achieving a compound growth rate averaging 4 percent annually for the last 30 years.
And the trend, which is expected to continue into the next century, is expected to lead to record consumption of stainless steel in the United States this year.
"It is hard to find any long-term growth in basic steel, but the underlying demand for stainless steel has been growing faster than economic activity, which is unusual for a metal," said Charles A. Bradford, an analyst with UBS Securities.
A record year for stainless steel may seem unremarkable at a time when the entire United States steel industry -- from commodities like carbon steel to specialty alloy grades -- is enjoying its biggest boom in decades.
Yet most steelmakers know that for every boom in the industry comes the inevitable downturn, which is the reason most steel producers have deliberately avoided gearing up production to fulfill the current demand. The consumption of carbon steel, the biggest segment by far, is expected to fall short this year of the United States record of 111 million tons, set in 1973.
But in the stainless steel segment of the industry in the United States, led by the Allegheny Ludlum Corporation, producers are toiling to keep up with record demand for their product. The consumption of stainless steel in the United States is forecast at 2.1 million tons for the entire year -- slightly more than a fifth of the global stainless steel market.
Allegheny Ludlum, based in Pittsburgh, has been consistently profitable since becoming a public company in 1987, after splitting from Allegheny International in a management-led buyout. The other leading stainless steel makers -- Armco Inc. of Parsippany, N.J.; J& L Specialty Steel Inc. of Pittsburgh, and Lukens Inc. of Coatesville, Pa. -- are in various states of revamping and recovery from changes in ownership or money-losing efforts in other, lower-priced types of steel.
Even so, the continued good prospects for stainless steel have prompted positive reports from analysts for at least J& L, whose stock was recently upgraded to a "moderate outperformer" by Goldman, Sachs & Company, and to a "strong buy" by Kidder, Peabody & Company.
Mr. Bradford, the analyst, said he saw plenty of room for continued growth in the United States steel market, as consumers demanded longer-lasting cars, appliances and other products. On a per-capita basis, the consumption in this country is still only about half the level of that in Japan and many European countries, where manufacturers began emphasizing quality and durability in metal goods much earlier.
While the output of stainless steel remains fairly small compared with the overall steel production in the United States, the high prices commanded by stainless steel makes it an important component of producers' financial results. Price varies by grade, but a ton of stainless steel sells for about $2,300 on average, compared with $500 a ton for commodity-grade carbon steel.
"The rule of thumb is that stainless is 1 to 2 percent of industry tonnage, but 10 to 12 percent of the dollars," said Bert Delano, a spokesman for Allegheny Ludlum.
The company, the biggest domestic producer of stainless steel, derives 86 percent of its revenue from the metal, which it produces in nine plants, situated in western Pennsylvania, as well as Claremont, Okla.; New Castle, Ind.; Lockport, N.Y., and Wallingford and Waterbury, Conn.
Allegheny Ludlum had profits of $70.8 million in 1993 on sales of $1.1 billion, and is expected soon to report third-quarter earnings of about $10 million for the period that ended on Sept. 30.
Stainless steel has long been the company's focus. In 1936, for example, the company that would eventually become Allegheny Ludlum persuaded the Ford Motor Company to stamp six "deluxe sedan" bodies from stainless steel, to demonstrate the metal's durability. Fifty-eight years later, four of the cars are still running, their body panels as shiny as ever.
Although there have been no big technological breakthroughs in the manufacture of stainless steel, the makers continue to tinker with the recipe. Stainless steel, which is widely used in cookware, cutlery and chemical plants, is steel that has been made highly resistant to corrosion by being mixed, or alloyed, with chromium. The surface can be highly polished, which also makes it useful as an architectural decoration and for things like elevator doors.
And because it tolerates high temperatures better than ordinary steels, stainless steel is used in pipes and tubes that are widely used in industrial processes. A threshold of about 10 percent chromium is needed to render the metal "stainless" under ordinary conditions, although some alloys contain up to 27 percent chromium for use in especially hostile environments, like factories that use hot, corrosive chemicals.
Most high-grade stainless steel alloys contain nickel as well, which improves its metalworking properties and helps produce the shiny finish. Other metals like molybdenum and niobium are sometimes added to the mix for special applications.
As a result, making stainless steel is a much more complex operation than that which occurs in a standard steel mill. "With flat-rolled carbon steel, three or four grades dominate," said Richard P. Simmons, chairman of Allegheny Ludlum. "We have 300 different melt codes" for stainless steel, he said.
Although the stainless steel production in the United States has been a consistently profitable business, the number of companies has shrunk in response to decades of plant closings and layoffs throughout the domestic steel industry.
"When I became president of Allegheny Ludlum in 1972, I had nine competitors in flat-rolled stainless," Mr. Simmons said. "Now I have three."
Foreign competition has played a role. The largest exporters of stainless steel to the United States, ranked in descending order, are Spain, Japan, Mexico, France, Italy and Korea.
According to data from the Specialty Steel Industry of the United States, a trade association, imports accounted for 26.6 percent of the total market for stainless steel in the first half on 1994. That was up slightly from 25.2 percent for all of 1993 -- but up significantly from 11.9 percent in 1988.
Dire as the import figures may sound, much of the growth in the last few years has been the result of the demand for stainless steel in the United States outrunning the ability of American companies to produce it in sufficient volume. But like their counterparts in the carbon steel industry, stainless steel producers complain that too much of the imported product comes from producers subsidized by their governments to maintain employment levels.
In any case, pressure from imports has forced stainless steel producers to push for greater efficiencies in the mills and cut costs. "I'm producing about one billion pounds of specialty steel this year," Mr. Simmons said. "That is about twice as much as in 1980, and we are doing it with half as many people." Allegheny Ludlum employs about 6,000 people.
Such efficiencies, analysts say, should put United States stainless steel producers in a position to benefit, as more uses are found for the long-lasting metal.
"People are beginning to think in terms of life cycle costs rather than immediate price," said Thomas E. Abrams, an analyst with Kidder, Peabody. "It seems to be sinking into the psyche of American engineers that paying a little more per ton is actually cheaper if the product lasts longer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: U.S. usage of stainless steel is expected to reach record levels this year, with auto makers a big reason why. To show off the metal's durability, Ford has built stainless steel versions of a 1960 Thunderbird, top, a 1936 "deluxe sedan" and a 1967 Lincoln Continental convertible. (Steve Mellon/Impact Visuals for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "A Record of Steady Growth" shows growth comparison of stainless steel and carbon steel markets in the United States from '70-'90. (Source: Allegheny Ludlum Corporation) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (81%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ALLEGHENY LUDLUM CORP (81%); J & L SPECIALTY STEEL INC (62%); LUKENS INC (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PRODUCTION; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (77%); TRENDS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



276 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Think air bags, not credit reporting, when evaluating TRW.

BYLINE: By Leonard Sloane 

 BODY:
MENTION the name TRW and for many people what comes to mind is a credit bureau that provides consumer reports to lenders and merchants.
But to investors, TRW Inc. is -- or should be -- much more. More than 50 percent of its revenues come from automotive products, especially the fast-growing air bag business. An additional 35 percent of revenues stems from space and military systems. Only 8 percent of the company's sales is derived from the broad area of information services, which includes not only credit bureaus, but also real estate information and transaction processing systems. 
 "When a company is predominantly in products that are intermediate in the general economy, there are lots of opportunity for misperceiving it," said Wolfgang H. Demisch, an analyst for BT Securities. "TRW is not getting full credit for the technical strength that it, in fact, has. There's probably still some juice in the orange."
Largely because of this strength, TRW achieved an earnings peak for the second quarter and is poised to set a company profits record for the full year, according to many security analysts. Surprising Wall Street with the attractiveness of its margins, profits rose to $1.33 a share in the April-June quarter, from 85 cents a share in the comparable period a year ago. The consensus mean earnings estimate of 15 analysts, according to I/B/E/S International, which tracks estimates, is $4.61 a share this year and $5.48 a share next year, up from net income of $3.39 a share in 1993.
There is little doubt that air bag use is growing and TRW, as the leading producer of safety restraint systems in the world, stands to benefit.
"The primary investment consideration for the stock is air bag profit growth," said Jennifer Pokrywinski, an analyst for Morgan Stanley. "Even outside the occupant-restraint business, TRW should experience increasing content per vehicle from greater penetration of power rack-and-pinion steering in Europe and rising U.S. use of more efficient four-valve cylinders in engines."
The future of TRW's space and military operations -- including spacecraft, communications systems and lasers -- is problematic. The recent consolidation in the military business, like the merger of Northrop and Grumman and the agreement between Martin Marietta and Lockheed to merge, along with declining military procurement could affect the growth of companies like TRW.
"We recommend the purchase," said Eli S. Lustgarten, an analyst for Paine Webber. "But TRW has to make sure that they maintain damage control in space and defense."
Even in its credit information service business, where the company is the market leader over two big competitors, Equifax and Trans Union, enticing long-term opportunities exist in Europe and Japan, if not in the United States.
TRW, which is based in Cleveland, suffered bad publicity a few years ago when a data gatherer mistakenly listed tax payments made by consumers in Norwich, Vt., as tax delinquencies. That led to an agreement by the company with the attorneys general of 19 states and the Federal Trade Commission to make broad changes to give the public less costly, faster and more accurate credit reports. While some analysts expect TRW to eventually sell the information unit, such action is unlikely in the immediate future.
With a favorable overall outlook, the stock of TRW closed at $71.625, up 37.5 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, not too far below its 52-week high of $77.50, and more than twice its 1991 low of $34.50. At current levels, it is selling at a 1994 price-earnings ratio of about 15.5 and a 1995 price-earnings ratio of about 13.1, both of which are a significant discount to the overall market, as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500 index.
So to get closer to the mark on TRW these days, think air bags, not credit reporting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (92%); EFX (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (92%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TRW INC NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (92%); EQUIFAX INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRW INC

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (76%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AIRBAG MFG (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (77%); MERGERS (77%); SPACE EXPLORATION (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



277 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Data on Derivatives Offered

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
J. P. Morgan & Company, one of the biggest traders in the $14 trillion derivatives market, said yesterday that it would supply daily information on more than 300 derivatives and other securities to help corporations keep track of the value of their holdings of these complex instruments.
Derivatives are contracts whose value is tied to, or derived from, the price of some other asset, such as an interest rate or a currency. 
 The prices of these contracts can swing rapidly and it is difficult to calculate the so-called value at risk in a portfolio, which is a forecast of the most that could be lost in a single day. That is because of the diverse relationships, or correlations, between different markets that can determine a big move in derivatives prices.
Morgan will provide daily information free on 300 types of derivatives, as well as bonds, equities and other securities, and more than 100,000 correlations between them, said the bank, which calls its system Risk Metrics.
"All of this data represents the starting point for working out what your total value at risk is," said Mark Garman, a principal at Financial Engineering Associates. The Berkeley, Calif., firm is one of a number of companies whose software will incorporate the Morgan data.
Morgan's move comes after a year in which many regulators and legislators called for an improvement in the computer systems companies use to value their derivatives holdings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN, J P, & CO JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); FINANCIAL ENGINEERING ASSOCIATES INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN, J P, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (66%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; CORPORATIONS RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: MARK GARMAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



278 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Scott Paper Unit Draws $1.6 Billion

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

 BODY:
Sappi Ltd. of Johannesburg and two other investors agreed to buy America's largest maker of glossy paper from the Scott Paper Company for $1.6 billion, the companies said yesterday. Executives said it would be the biggest American investment by a South African company in more than 20 years.
For Sappi, South Africa's leading paper and forest products company, the purchase represents a big leap into the world paper market. Sappi's sales totaled $1.7 billion last year, while the manufacturer it is acquiring, the S. D. Warren Company of Boston, sold $1.2 billion. 
 For Scott Paper, the sale of S. D. Warren is a sizable step in efforts by its chief executive, Albert J. Dunlap, to reduce the size of the company, its debt and the diversity of its interests.
"It was a strategic sale for us, and a strategic buy for them," said Mr. Dunlap, a turnaround specialist who came out of retirement in April to run Scott. "I've always been a great believer in sticking to your core business."
Wall Street viewed the deal quite favorably. Scott's shares jumped $3.25 yesterday, closing at $64.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Sappi's core business, while limited to paper products, has expanded substantially in recent years. In 1988, it bought the world's largest producer of dissolving pulp from a British conglomerate, and in 1990 it bought five paper mills in Britain.
Sappi would not have been legally barred from investing in the United States during the period of international economic sanctions, which were aimed mostly at discouraging American investment in South Africa and not the other way around. But executives involved in Sappi's purchase said it would have been difficult as little as two years ago.
"Think of how the press might have looked at a South African company coming in," said John Chalsty, chief executive of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, who was born in South Africa and immigrated to the United States in 1954. "At this time, the issue never arose."
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette is both a new owner and a lender in the sale of Warren. Its investment banking unit, DLJ Merchant Banking Partners, bought $125 million in equity, and another DLJ subsidiary provided $375 million in a bridge loan. The UBS Capital Corporation, a private investment arm of Union Bank of Switzerland, is also providing $25 million in equity.
Under the terms of the purchase, which is subject to approval by the South African Reserve Bank and is not expected to be completed before December, Sappi would own about 70 percent of the company; DLJ Merchant Banking Partners would hold 25 percent and UBS Capital would own about 5 percent.
Chemical Bank provided the bulk of the deal's financing, with a guarantee of $1.1 billion, executives said. Because of strict limits on the amount of capital a South African company can remove from that country, Sappi needed an additional $200 million loan from Union Bank of Switzerland to cover its equity investment.
Analysts who follow Scott Paper said that the sale of its glossy paper manufacturer was expected, but that it had been unclear whether Scott could find a buyer for its price tag of $1.6 billion, about equal to Warren's book value. The International Paper Company and the Union Camp Corporation each expressed interest initially, but dropped out because the price was too high for them, analysts said.
"It's interesting to me that the two big sales by paper companies in the past month have each been with foreign buyers," Lawrence Ross, an analyst at Paine Webber, said.
Last week, Reed Elsevier P.L.C. bought the Mead Corporation's on-line information service for $1.5 billion. "Maybe that tells you something about the value of the dollar," Mr. Ross said.
Mr. Ross noted that Scott Paper bought S. D. Warren in 1968 to diversify its holdings at a time when competition from other large rivals in the tissue business was growing. "They never really wanted Warren," he Ross said. "They made the best of it, but it was never really what they wanted."
S. D. Warren produces about 25 percent of the glossy paper -- used in magazines, brochures and catalogues -- sold in the United States. It runs four paper mills, two in Maine, one in Michigan and one in Alabama.
Another analyst said that a complication in the sale arose from the plant in Mobile, Ala., where pulp production will still be owned by Scott, separate from Warren. With a new owner, Warren will have to buy pulp from Scott at a market price.
"It's sort of like selling the sports department of your newspaper while you keep the rest," said the analyst, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Mr. Dunlap said he did not think the split would be problem.
"We worked it out amicably," he said. "This is a very large sale."
Mr. Chalsty of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette said he believed the sale was the largest investment ever made in the United States by a South African company, and was certainly the largest in the last 20 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SPP (NYSE) (98%); UBSN (SWX) (81%); UBS (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (98%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (98%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS322299 ALL OTHER CONVERTED PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2679 CONVERTED PAPER & PAPERBOARD PRODUCTS, NEC (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (81%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (73%); 

COMPANY: WARREN, S D, CO; SAPPI LTD; DONALDSON LUFKIN & JENRETTE INC; DLJ MERCHANT BANKING PARTNERS; SCOTT PAPER CO SAPPI LTD (98%); SCOTT PAPER CO (94%); SAPPI FINE PAPER NORTH AMERICA (83%); UBS AG (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); SOUTH AFRICAN RESERVE BANK (51%); CHEMICAL BANK (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: WARREN, S D, CO; SAPPI LTD; DONALDSON LUFKIN & JENRETTE INC; DLJ MERCHANT BANKING PARTNERS; SCOTT PAPER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (74%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS PAPER & PACKAGING (91%); PAPER MFG (91%); PAPER MILLS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERCHANT BANKING (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PULP INDUSTRY (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); APPROVALS (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH; DUNLAP, ALBERT J LAWRENCE ROSS (64%); ALBERT J DUNLAP (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



279 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Sense of Timing;
Officials See Another Rate Rise Coming, But Will It Be Now or Later in the Year?

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
Top Federal Reserve officials say the American economy is growing briskly, making further increases in short-term interest rates almost inevitable in the coming months to try to prevent the economy from overheating and feeding inflation.
But while many bond market analysts worry that the next increase will come this week, there seems to be a growing possibility that the Fed will not raise rates again until the next meeting of its top policy committee on Nov. 15. 
 Several officials at the nation's central bank said in interviews in the last several days that they would like more data on the economy before deciding when to act again. A clear picture of inflation and economic growth may not be available until the Commerce and Labor Departments release key data for September and October later this month and in early November, they said.
The 19-member committee, called the Federal Open Market Committee, is widely believed to have voted at its Sept. 27 meeting to give broad discretion to Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, to raise interest rates again before the November meeting, and he still may. But top central bank officials said that no clear consensus existed at the central bank for immediate action.
The Federal Reserve's decisions affect the interest rates that Americans pay on car loans, adjustable-rate mortgages and credit cards, as well as the returns they receive on bank deposits, money market funds and bond investments. The decisions also have a powerful influence over the economy's rate of growth and the number of jobs that are created each year.
Susan M. Phillips, a governor of the Federal Reserve Board, said that unemployment figures for September, which the Labor Department issued on Friday, were of limited use in gauging inflation or the economy because they showed little change from the August levels.
The Commerce Department's figures on third-quarter economic activity, scheduled for release on Oct. 28, will provide the best indication of whether the Fed's five interest-rate increases this year have been enough to slow the economy and forestall inflation, she said.
"That's where we're going to have to look to see how much it has been taking" hold, she said.
So far this year, the Federal Reserve has raised its target for the Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4.75 percent from 3 percent. The central bank has also raised the discount rate, which the Fed charges banks for overnight loans, to 4 percent from 3 percent.
Other top Fed officials also want more information on whether the productivity of American workers is continuing to rise. As long as each worker's output per hour goes up about as fast as wages, then companies' costs per unit of output will stay about the same and inflation will not rise.
Commodity prices have sharply risen this year, though consumer prices have not. Senior Fed officials attribute this apparent paradox to strong productivity. But officials said they wanted to see the Labor Department figures on unit labor costs, a measure of productivity that looks at the cost of labor of producing each dollar of economic output. Those data are due Nov. 9.
In the absence of clear information on the economy, no consensus exists among the central bank's top decision makers on what to do next, said John P. LaWare, another governor of the Federal Reserve Board.
"Obviously, there are shades of opinion and shades of action options," Mr. LaWare said in an interview. "It would be a somewhat diverse picture at the moment."
But while the timing of the next change in interest rates may be somewhat unclear, the direction is not: the next change will be an increase. Fed officials are increasingly certain that the economy is growing faster than most private economists or the Clinton Administration believe.
A survey of economic forecasters issued on Friday found that they predicted that growth for all of this year would be 3.1 percent. The Clinton Administration continues to stand by its estimate in July of 3 percent.
But Fed officials now predict that the final figure will be from 3.25 percent to 3.5 percent, suggesting that the economy has slowed very little since the central bank began raising short-term interest rates in February.
Fed officials want a slower pace, and are unsure that interest rate increases so far are adequate to make this happen. "I'd be quite satisfied, I think personally, if we were able to look at 1995 and see a growth rate of 2 1/2 percent or so," Mr. LaWare said.
For now, at least, some officials see little risk of immediate inflation. "I'm seeing the same number of signs as before -- nothing has changed," said Lawrence B. Lindsey, another governor of the Federal Reserve Board.
Although Fed officials refuse to discuss the subject, they have also historically been reluctant to raise rates a month before national elections.
As for any political pressure on the Fed to raise or lower interest rates the Clinton Administration -- unlike the Bush Administration -- has generally avoided taking strong positions on such policy. The hostility of manufacturers to further interest rate increases, which hurt sales of cars and other goods bought on credit, has been balanced by the enthusiasm of bond traders, who fear that low interest rates will allow inflation to rise again and erode the returns from bond investments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (74%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (65%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (64%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BRADSHER, KEITH ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



280 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: A Modest Eastern Europe Attracts Beauty Stores

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PRAGUE

 BODY:
The sparkling brass-rimmed counters, the glistening bottles and the efficient sales clerks in crisp navy suits at the new Estee Lauder store here are a shock to many shoppers in Eastern Europe. Add a play corner with toys for children while mother spends and a brightly lighted seminar room for beauty consultations and customers could be forgiven for thinking they were in an affluent Western city.
The exceedingly modest incomes of most East European women have not stopped the big international cosmetic companies from hunting for new markets in the consumer-deprived region. The opening of the Estee Lauder store recently completed a triumvirate for the company: Budapest in 1989, Warsaw in 1993, now Prague. Guerlain and Christian Dior have glamorous stores in the three capitals and Elizabeth Arden has a spiffy boutique here. 
 Nobody is making any money in what would seem, at first blush, a somewhat frivolous exercise in glamorous image making. The handful of women from the new monied class -- wives of former Communist politicians, some women with businesses of their own -- do not make enough of a customer base for profits.
But the companies say they see big potential. The strategy is to get in fast with modest initial investments. The conversion of the dingy building off Wenceslaus Square here into an exterior confection of pink and white cost the Lauder company just $1 million.
"If you wait until there are enough people to support a big business, they'll be enough competition and the market will be carved up so it will be 10 times more costly," said Leonard A. Lauder, president of the Lauder company and son of its founder.
"What is the prognosis of Coca-Cola on what it will cost to catch up to Pepsi after all those years of Pepsi in the former Soviet Union?" he continued. "We're prepared for several years of no profits because we know as the economy strengthens we'll be well positioned."
The Lauder family, no stranger to Eastern Europe, originally came from Satoraljaujhely, in northeast Hungary, though Estee Lauder herself was born in New York City. Her younger son, Ronald S. Lauder, has bought into television stations in Poland and the Czech Republic.
Guerlain, an early pioneer in the region with a much wider network that includes shops in provincial cities like Gdansk and Cracow in Poland, holds a similar philosophy. "The fact is, it is investment for the future," said Antoine de Fommervault, Guerlain's manager for Eastern Europe.
It's easy to forget after 40 years of Communism that women in Poland and Hungary and to a lesser extent the Czech Republic are no strangers to beauty products and skin care. Between the two world wars, women in these countries took great pride in preserving their skin. Two of the world's most successful beauty entrepreneurs come from the region: Estee Lauder and Helena Rubenstein, who was born in Cracow, Poland.
In part, the cosmetic companies are hoping to tap into this tradition. When Guerlain opened its store in the opera building in Warsaw, the company ran nostalgic ads in the newspapers inviting women to bring in their old Guerlain bottles in exchange for an up-to-date product. "We had a lot of old people with no monetary means come in," Mr. de Fommervault said. "It just showed how passionate women are about the product."
The cosmetic companies have something else they can play off. A jar of cream, say Lauder's Advanced Night Repair priced at $59 -- the best seller on opening day in Prague -- or a lipstick at about $15 is a more realistic purchase than any of the other available Western luxury goods like cars and jewelry. Women's salaries in the Czech Republic are low but gradually increasing. The Czech statistical office reported that Czech women earned an average monthly salary last year of 3,349 crowns, or $124. This year, their average salary rose to 3,540 crowns, or $131.
In Budapest, where an entrepreneurial class has been expanding, there appears to be a group of women with robust incomes, said the Lauder store manager, Laszlo Varadi.
"Statistics are risky, but we estimate there are about 8,000 women earning over $3,000 a month net, probably from banking, insurance," he said. "That's our key target."
The customers on the first day at Lauder's shop in Prague earned good incomes by the country's standards.
"I was amazed, we had five dentists, various professional women," said Jana Brichnacova, 22, a former real estate agent who was chosen among hundreds of applicants as one of the five beauty advisers for the store. "These are women who have been going to Christian Dior and read Cosmopolitan and Elle."
To make the store more accessible and the prices less forbidding, the front counter was loaded with come-ons -- miniature fragrances for $3.60 (100 crowns), a makeup purse with three samples for $5.35 (150 crowns), a mirror for $1.80 (50 crowns).
All the companies have had to devise ways of marketing in countries where there are not many outlets for advertising and where ads are often treated with skepticism.
Early on, Christian Dior found that direct mailing was a no-no.
"We would ask clients for their addresses and they would be very reluctant. In the past if you gave your address to anyone it could be very dangerous," said Elizabeth Robert, the manager for Christian Dior in Eastern Europe. On a recent mailing in Budapest to a select list of 250 clients who had patronized the treatment salon at the store, 25 of the letters came back with wrong addresses, she said.
Special offers, one of the basic selling techniques for cosmetics in the West, don't work either. "We tried special offers when we first opened in Warsaw in 1991 and no one would buy," Ms. Robert said. "They think there is something wrong with the product."
One of the most successful methods of selling is through the salons that Lauder, Dior and Guerlain run alongside their stores. In Budapest, for example, Mr. Varadi estimates that 50 percent of his store's sales of creams and cosmetics come from women who have facials, for about $40, at the salon. After a facial, he said, some of these customers spend up to $500 on skin products.
Another selling point comes from the style of the sales clerks, who are carefully chosen and well trained to give service that contrasts with the almost universal surliness that persists in most stores even five years after the end of Communism. None of the sales clerks cum beauty advisers at Lauder's in Prague had previous store or beauty experience. "I suppose they didn't want people spoiled with bad manners," Ms. Brichnacova said.
Mr. Lauder hopes the Prague store will reach sales of $500,000 to $1 million in the first year. The Budapest store does about $1 million worth of business five years after it opened.
But these are still early days for small investments, he said. "One shop in one country is not like trying to conquer Brazil," he said. "We're not even in Brazil. It would cost us $20 to $30 million."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new Estee Lauder store in Prague is attracting shoppers with its array of Western luxury goods and services. The big cosmetic companies are hunting for new markets in consumer-deprived Eastern Europe. (Pavel Horejsi for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (92%); CDI (PAR) (56%); KO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (92%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (92%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (56%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); POLAND (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER INC; DIOR, CHRISTIAN; GUERLAIN INC ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (92%); GUERLAIN SA (56%); CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (56%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: ESTEE LAUDER INC; DIOR, CHRISTIAN; GUERLAIN INC

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); POLAND (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: COSMETICS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SALES COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); COSMETICS (89%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE LEONARD LAUDER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



281 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: New York City Is Vengeful in the Face of a 'Raid' by Connecticut

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Just weeks after losing a spirited battle to keep Swiss Bank from leaving Manhattan, the Giuliani administration has taken out large display ads in Connecticut newspapers urging Connecticut residents to reject "this blatant and unneighborly raid."
The ads, designed by the staff of John S. Dyson, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's Deputy Mayor for finance and economic development, were the latest salvo in the on-again, off-again battle for business among New York City, New Jersey and Connecticut, all of which have relied heavily on tax incentives to lure or retain large companies. 
 Warning against a "bidding war which will only hurt both communities," the ads offered a blistering attack on Connecticut's deal with Swiss Bank, which last month agreed to move to Stamford in exchange for tax breaks that could amount to $120 million over 10 years.
"Connecticut taxpayers will pay $60,000 for each job, an unbelievable amount," say the ads, which appeared in the Sunday editions of The Hartford Courant, The Stamford Advocate and Greenwich Time.
According to the standard display advertising rates charged by the three papers, New York City's bill would have been slightly over $19,000 for the one-day marketing blitz.
One Connecticut resident who was not impressed was Joseph J. McGee, the state's Commissioner of Economic Development.
"This shows a lapse in judgment," he said, charging that the New York City ads violated a 1991 agreement between New York, New Jersey and Connecticut not to compete for each other's businesses through ads or aggressive marketing.
Mr. McGee also chided Mr. Dyson, who, in the weeks before Swiss Bank announced its decision to move to Stamford, had flown to Basel, Switzerland, site of the bank's international headquarters, to try to persuade the company to stay in Manhattan.
"We think the Deputy Mayor is suffering a case of jet lag," Mr. McGee said.
Those remarks, while seeming to personalize a debate over economic development strategies, prompted an even more vehement response from Forrest Taylor, a spokesman for Mr. Dyson. "The Commissioner maunders and resorts to personal attacks on the Deputy Mayor, all the while engaging in a game of pernicious poaching that will ultimately cost Connecticut taxpayers millions," he said.
Although Swiss Bank announced its move to Stamford on Sept. 21, final barriers to the deal are expected to be removed this week by the Connecticut Legislature. It must act on measures that will both approve the terms of the tax breaks offered Swiss Bank, and amend a longstanding state law that prohibits foreign-owned banks from operating branches or headquarters in Connecticut.
Swiss Bank said it plans to move 1,300 of its 1,500 workers from Manhattan to a new 20-story office building it will erect near the commuter railroad station in downtown Stamford. It said it would hire an additional 700 workers when the building is completed.
It is doubtful that New York City's ads will influence the votes this week in the Connecticut Legislature, but they may be intended to make Connecticut officials think twice before offering such expensive incentives in the future.
New York City, the ads say, has offered tax breaks to many companies, but they have been "at far more reasonable costs to taxpayers."
Connecticut officials estimate that new tax revenue from Swiss Bank will come to more than $300 million over 10 years and argue that the $120 million they are giving back is a reasonable price to pay.
"The easiest way to describe this deal is that we get 80 percent of something instead of 100 percent of nothing," he said. Indeed, similar rationale has been offered by New York City, New Jersey and other jurisdictions around the nation to explain their use of tax breaks.
The New York City ads urged Connecticut to adopt a "good neighbor policy" similar to one that Mayor Giuliani has embraced elsewhere in the region. Since taking office in January, the Mayor and Mr. Dyson are known to have quietly negotiated informal agreements with officials in New Jersey, Nassau County, Westchester and other New York counties that are designed to minimize their competition for business.
Although it was never before declared dead, the 1991 "nonaggression pact" referred to by Mr. McGee apparently has been undone by New York City's newspaper ads, and by the verbal exchange it provoked.
"If there was ever an agreement, Connecticut has certainly broken it," Mr. Taylor said in an interview.
The newspaper ads suggested a new slogan to replace "I Love New York," which was coined in the 1970's by a state team that included none other than Mr. Dyson.
The slogan -- "New York City. Where The World Does Business" -- appears above the address and phone number of Mr. Dyson's office, which are apparently offered for the sake of Connecticut residents who want to hear more about the benefits of doing business in New York City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: SWISS BANK CORP SWISS BANK & TRUST CORP LTD (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWISS BANK CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RELOCATIONS (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (71%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MCGEE, JOSEPH J (COMR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



282 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices of Treasury Futures Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury futures ended slightly higher yesterday, while the Treasury market was closed in observance of Columbus Day.
The corporate and municipal markets, which follow the Treasury market closely to price their securities, were quiet. 
 Trading in the futures market was subdued in a holiday-shortened session. The price of the December Treasury bond contract rose 7/32 , to 9814/32 , on a rising perception that the economy may not be growing fast enough to accelerate inflation.
In the Treasury market on Friday, the price of the 30-year bond rose 20/32 , and the yield fell five basis points, to 7.90 percent, after the Labor Department said the economy added 239,000 jobs in September, lower than the market's expectations of a gain of 254,000 jobs. A basis point is one-hundredth of percentage point.
Reports that Iraq had withdrawn its troops from near the Kuwaiti border, an easing in oil prices and some follow-through from Friday's recovery helped bolster the futures market yesterday.
The long end of the market, which saw heavy turnover and rising interest rates last week, could experience some further consolidation this week ahead of two inflation reports. The Government is scheduled to report on producer prices on Thursday and on consumer prices on Friday.
Although the Federal Reserve has raised short-term interest rates five times this year in an effort to keep inflation in check, investors have shown little patience. Rising rates reflect the market's concern about the effectiveness of the Fed to hold the line on inflation.
The municipal bond market, however, has benefited from this turmoil in Treasury securities.
A lack of supply in new issues has kept municipals from experiencing the same price fluctuation as in Treasuries, said Michael S. Appelbaum, a senior vice president and municipal bond specialist at Paine Webber.
"The supply of new municipal issues for the first nine months of this year is off 40 percent," he said. "In the municipal bond market it's not what you get, it's what you keep."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FUTURES TRADING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES BOND MARKETS (95%); FUTURES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



283 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Drowning In Oil

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
The heart of the matter is not what Saddam Hussein will do or can do to harass his enemies in the West and Mideast. It is what they can do and will do to destroy him at last.
Will they allow him one more victory so he can return again to threaten the Mideast and the U.S. next year? Or will they push him finally into the grave he has been digging for himself, his regime and his nation? 
 Basically that has been the question ever since President Bush made one of the more unusual decisions in history. Mr. Bush allowed an enemy smashed swiftly on the battlefield to remain in power indefinitely, his dictatorship intact and his army strong enough to carry on unceasing warfare against millions of his countrymen.
But by his latest adventure -- sending troops to the Kuwaiti border -- Saddam Hussein has shown the West his own desperation and its opportunity. Sooner or later many dictators do that.
Baghdad's promise of the withdrawal of the troops changes neither Saddam's desperation nor the West's choice. It accentuates them.
Until now Saddam used his time since his resurrection by Mr. Bush extremely well. He has rebuilt a substantial part of his army, to terrorize his country, kill Iraqi Kurdish and Shiite rebels, and remind the Muslim world he is still a power.
But one thing prevented him from reconstructing his country as a major economic power, which is the essential step toward again becoming a major military power: the U.N. embargo. It blocked him from selling the oil that had been his indispensable fountain of revenue.
Then, just as the U.N. was about to consider if and when to lift the embargo, Saddam tried to put on heavy pressure -- massing troops against Kuwait and tying their removal to the embargo. This forced the Clinton Administration to move tens of thousands of troops in preparation for the war that another Iraq invasion would bring.
Why did Saddam take this dangerous gamble? He has made dreadful mistakes before but not quite this obvious. This time he had notice that if it came to war, President Clinton was not likely to allow him to remain in power. That of course meant he would not remain alive.
Saddam also knew that France, Turkey and Russia were working to lift the embargo so they could again do oil business with Iraq.
Madeleine Albright, the U.S. representative to the U.N., deserves national bouquets for fighting against ending the embargo. But Saddam also knew that ever since the end of the gulf war European industrialists had been meeting with Iraqi officials to rebuild the reconstruction and arms network that empowered him before the war. They were using their influence to lift the embargo that kept them from the Iraqi treasury. (Kenneth H. Timmerman writes about the resurgence of the Iraqi-Western death lobby in The Wall Street Journal of Sept. 27.)
Saddam was being told by his European friends to lie low and maybe the U.S. would go along in six months or so. But he could not afford just to wait. The oil embargo was not merely crippling the country but inciting rebellion among civilian Iraqis and the armed forces.
Laurie Mylroie, another expert on Iraq, reports in the Times Op-Ed page of Oct. 2 that in both the civilian population and the military, Saddam Hussein has ordered amputation of ears, feet and arms as punishment for rebellion or desertion.
The issue now is not what to do about Iraq if it does invade Kuwait but what to do if it does not. The answer is to tighten the embargo, not loosen it, by insisting that before it can be lifted the Iraqi regime has to end rule by terror against all Iraqis and foreign targets.
Saddam Hussein would of course not agree. Without terrorism he could rule for a month perhaps, not much longer. But when the Iraqi army and civilians understand that the embargo would not be lifted with Saddam in power they might take their own lives -- and his -- into their hands.
The West could destroy Saddam by war. But by his own desperation and stupidity or both, he has shown us that he is drowning in his own unsold oil.
Clintonian policy has been exactly right. One: Send in troops in case Saddam is not only desperate but insane. Two: Try to prevent either France, Russia or the death lobby from throwing the man a lifeline as he sinks and sinks and sinks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (93%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; IRAQ (96%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (93%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (69%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ; TERRORISM INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); DESERT STORM (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); POLITICS (70%); TRENDS (67%); TERRORISM (65%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); LOBBYING (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



284 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's Reckless Ploy

 BODY:
Five days of Iraqi deployments and U.S. counterdeployments around Kuwait's northern border have left Bill Clinton looking like a born-again military strategist and Saddam Hussein like a dangerous and clumsy bully. Iraq's announcement yesterday that it was withdrawing troops from the border region vindicates Mr. Clinton's strategy of quick and massive military deterrence of any Iraqi plans for renewed aggression.
The Iraqi leader's motives and intentions are known only to him. But if he thought he could force a resolution of the diplomatic stalemate over oil sanctions by stirring up a new military crisis over Kuwait, he was badly mistaken. By foolishly conducting threatening military maneuvers near the Kuwaiti border, Baghdad has set back its cause among friend and foe alike. 
 Iraq's cooperation with U.N. arms inspectors entitle it to seek limited relief from international sanctions -- permission to again export oil and amass petrodollars. But the Security Council cannot and must not ease sanctions under duress from military threats. If Iraq is really withdrawing and is now prepared to accept Kuwait's sovereignty and borders, it can again begin trying to persuade Security Council members that lifting oil sanctions sometime next year would be in the best interests of all concerned. But its actions in the past few days have set back its chances of success.
Before Baghdad precipitated the latest crisis by moving at least two elite divisions southward toward the Kuwaiti border, it was making diplomatic gains. U.N. inspectors reported that Iraq's nuclear, biological and chemical weapons components and longer-range missiles had been fully located and destroyed. A thorough system for long-term monitoring is ready to go into operation in the coming weeks -- assuming Iraq continues its recent pattern of cooperation with the U.N.
Such destruction and monitoring of prohibited weapons are the only formal U.N. requirements for lifting oil sanctions under the gulf war cease-fire resolution, which was largely drafted by the U.S. China, France and Russia have indicated that they might soon be ready to vote to lift oil sanctions. But even these countries rightly demand that Iraq first firmly and explicitly recognize Kuwait's sovereignty and borders. That condition has now become even more important.
The other two permanent members of the Security Council, the U.S. and Britain, oppose any relief at this time, or perhaps at any time while Saddam Hussein remains in power. They argue that he cannot be trusted to continue his cooperation on arms once sanctions have been eased. That objection now carries added weight.
Iraqi diplomats suggest that Baghdad's menacing military moves were meant to cut through this Security Council deadlock. The idea was to set up a deal where guarantees for Kuwait could be traded for a definite promise that sanctions would be lifted. If that was the plan, it has blown up in Iraq's face. Rather than having to explain to impatient allies why it was rewriting the rules on oil sanctions, Washington can now point to Iraq's continued dangerous unpredictability.
Mr. Clinton shows he has learned the lesson of George Bush's equivocal early response to Iraq's 1990 threats against Kuwait. By quickly moving tens of thousands of troops, along with combat aircraft and ships, toward Kuwait the Administration may be able to claim credit for avoiding a possible invasion and war.
This emergency but precautionary deployment of U.S. troops falls within the President's constitutional powers as Commander in Chief. Unlike the dispatch of American troops to Haiti, threats to Kuwait clearly affect U.S. national interests, and the President's moves have elicited broad public and Congressional support. Still, Mr. Clinton should resist any temptation to strike pre-emptively at Iraq, and, if the military confrontation persists, should seek explicit Congressional endorsement.
For Saddam Hussein, this crisis once again demonstrates that however well he understands Iraqi politics, he badly misreads the outside world. For Bill Clinton, provided the crisis is now defused with no Americans killed, the episode could turn out to be a pre-election gift. The President has reassured a nervous public that, when clearly and urgently needed, he can project force decisively and effectively.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); KUWAIT (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (56%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); IDP EDUCATION PTY LTD (69%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; IRAQ (98%); KUWAIT (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (78%); SOUTH CHINA (56%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); TRENDS (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



285 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: A Prudent Agreement

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Unlike conservative 2 percent wage increases given by New York City to its lawyers, the more prudent Legal Aid agreement reached Oct. 5 provides only for 2 percent bonuses in each of the contract's two years.
Unlike the raises given to city agency lawyers, these bonuses will not add to the base salaries of Legal Aid lawyers. Moreover, the agreement provides arbitration in the second year on allocation of any increased health insurance costs. 
 Portrayals of the striking lawyers as unmindful of fiscal realities are baseless and have failed to address one salient fact: before the strike the Association of Legal Aid Attorneys put a thrifty agreement on the table like the one reached last night. Management rejected the offer.
Mayor Giuliani should reinstate the city's pre-existing contract with the society, which provides economies of scale and supplies expertise not found in a less experienced organization.
ADRIAN A. LESHER
Brooklyn, Oct. 6, 1994
The writer, a Legal Aid staff lawyer, is an alternate vice president, Association of Legal Aid Attorneys.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LEGAL AID SOCIETY ASSOCIATION OF LEGAL AID ATTORNEYS UAW LOCAL 2325 (83%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY ASSOCIATION OF LEGAL AID ATTORNEYS UAW LOCAL 2325 (83%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY ; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID FOR THE POOR; STRIKES LEGAL AID (93%); LAWYERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



286 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Capitalists Brush Risks Aside To Invest in Russia

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 10

 BODY:
The ruble is crashing amid mounting fears of renewed inflation, and the fledgling stock market is still smarting from its first big downturn. Bankers and entrepreneurs are being gunned down in the streets. There is little financial regulation and considerable fraud.
But for American and other foreign investors, those unpleasant realities are becoming far less important than their growing sense that Russia presents a business opportunity so big that they can no longer afford to hold back. 
 In the last few months, since Russia completed its first round of privatizations, money has been pouring into the country from foreign companies and investment funds that had previously been scared off by the near chaos of Russia's political and economic transition.
Betting that Russia's industrial core remains badly undervalued and that in the long run big parts of it will prove to be vibrant and profitable, foreigners have been jockeying to buy stakes directly from the most promising privatized Russian enterprises and have been snapping up their shares on the open market. The main attractions are big energy, natural resources and telecommunications companies that are being sold at prices that are bargains by foreign market standards.
Much of the Western money flowing into Russia so far has come from institutional investors that are willing to take on big risks in search of short-term returns. But more mainstream investors with longer-term outlooks are also getting involved. Last month, the Templeton funds group, one of the largest and most successful American investment groups involved in so-called emerging markets, said it was considering starting a $400 million Russia fund.
The Ministry of Privatization recently estimated that foreign investment had quadrupled since the beginning of the year, to $600 million a month. Eugene Lawson, president of the Council for Trade and Economic Cooperation, a trade group promoting business ties between the United States and Russia, told a conference in Moscow today that American direct investment in Russia, which was almost nothing at the beginning of the year, could reach $50 billion in the next 10 years.
The amounts flowing into Russia so far are only a fraction of what is needed to rebuild its industry, or even to develop a broad-based equity market. But continued investment by foreigners, who often bring valuable management expertise with them, would greatly aid the development of a market economy and would be perhaps the most concrete sign yet of confidence in Russia's progress toward capitalism.
Still, the flow of foreign capital to Russia could dry up or quickly reverse if the relative political and economic stability of late dissipates. The sharp fall in the ruble -- it dropped 6 percent against the dollar today and has lost a third of its value in the last month -- as well as fears of renewed inflation have made clear that Russia's economic overhaul has a long way to go. Last week, a sharp downturn in stock prices after a recent rally served as another reminder that Russia remains a volatile market.
Until that sharp drop, some stocks had been hitting new highs every few days. With buying by American and European investment funds, shares in oil producers, other energy companies and even GUM, the Moscow department store, had surged. Rostelekom, the long-distance telephone company, saw its share price go from as little as 300 rubles early this year to 16,650 rubles, or about $5.35 at exchange rates at the end of last week.
Investment bankers and analysts from New York and London are fanning out across the country visiting oil companies, aluminum processors and auto makers, many of which will be selling stakes directly to foreign investors in coming months in the second phase of the privatization program.
"The potential for Russian companies to be turned around and transformed is tremendous," said Richard Greer, a research director at Baring Securities, the British investment concern. Baring recently advised its clients that Russia offered "opportunities for investors unmatched in any other emerging market."
Until recently, far more capital had been flowing out of Russia than into it as Russians, wary about their nation's future, moved billions of dollars into overseas bank accounts and investments. Moreover, what investment there has been by Russians in their own country has tended to have little positive economic impact.
Individual Russians have tended to put their money into investment funds, many of which, like the discredited MMM, were nothing more than pyramid schemes promising huge returns. As for Russia's banks, they have found speculating against the ruble easier and more profitable than buying stocks or making loans.
For foreigners, investing in Russia, and especially in Russian stocks, remains extremely risky. Most companies cannot provide reliable financial information. The legal process of exchanging and registering shares is cumbersome and time consuming. There is a growing nationalist backlash against foreign ownership of industry.
The last few days have only made clear how bumpy Russia's trip down the capitalist road can be. After shooting up nearly 50 percent in a month, the most widely quoted stock market barometer, the MT index published by The Moscow Times, fell significantly on Thursday and Friday, the first time it has done so since it was created early last month.
After hitting a peak of 148.17 points on Wednesday, the index, which is based on over-the-counter prices for 30 of the largest privatized companies, dropped 10 percent during the next two days. It stabilized today and closed up 0.21 point at 133.99.
Among the biggest losers have been stocks that were favorites of foreign investors, including most of the oil stocks as well as Unified Energy System, the nationwide electric power utility. Brokers reported that many foreign investors trying to dump shares and lock in their profits could not find any buyers.
The rapidly falling ruble and a recent uptick in inflation -- to around 8 percent a month, about twice its level this summer -- led some analysts to predict renewed economic turmoil and market volatility for some time to come. The currency's decline was set off by concerns that Government spending and the budget deficit would rise sharply as industry demands more subsidies to keep it afloat. Today, in trading on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange the ruble closed at 3,081 to the dollar, compared with about 2,900 on Friday.
Viktor Gerashchenko, the head of the Russian central bank, told the Tass news agency today that the central bank had spent $2 billion buying rubles in recent weeks in an attempt to prop up the currency. Although the ruble's plunge makes purchasing ruble assets less expensive in dollar terms, it is worrisome to foreign investors who ultimately want to translate ruble profits back into dollars or other currencies.
"The rise in share prices took place in those enterprises where the foreign interest is the greatest," said Lena Chernyshkova, a manager at Skate Press Consulting Agency, a financial consulting concern that tracks share trading.
"The rise in the market for the last three to four months has been very sharp," she said. "Because the rise was too fast, there's now the threat of a fall. Some of the foreign investors have gotten scared and are trying to sell shares they bought over the last few months, but there aren't really any objective reasons for the fall in the market."
A new wave of investment from American investment funds is expected once they can arrange to meet technical legal requirements for custody of the Russian shares they buy. Big banks like Citibank and Chase Manhattan are considering establishing custodial operations in Russia to solve that problem.
"In terms of foreign investment, three months ago it was primarily the hedge funds," said Danielle Downing, director of Russian investments at C.A. & Company, a Russian-owned brokerage firm. "Now we see some of the big players coming in."
Miss Downing said she expected emerging-markets funds from the United States, which have experienced rapid growth in recent years, to start allocating up to 12 percent of their assets to Russia, making Russia one of the largest targets for investment of that type.
Pioneers in the Russian market like CS First Boston remain dominant in advising Russian companies and in trading stock. But almost all the big investment firms are now providing investors with detailed profiles of the opportunities available in Russia.
"The actual wealth behind the Russian economy is tremendous," said Dan Lubash, an analyst who tracks Russia for Merrill Lynch.
Mr. Lubash said the first phase of Russia's privatization program had left Russian companies a bargain by Western standards. The initial phase, which moved roughly two-thirds of Russian industrial output from state ownership at least partly into private hands, ended on June 30.
The market value of all the privatized industries at that point, he said, was about $7 billion, roughly comparable to the value that Wall Street currently places on a single American retailer, the Kmart Corporation. The market values of Russia's big energy, natural resources and telecommunications companies were about 1 to 40 percent of what they would be in Western markets, he calculated.
Take Gazprom, the Russian natural gas company that is the world's largest. Baring Securities recently calculated that the market was valuing its gas reserves at three-tenths of 1 cent per barrel of oil equivalent, compared with $3.90 for British Petroleum and $10.30 for British Gas.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 1994, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about a rise in foreign investment in Russia misstated the affiliation of Eugene K. Lawson. He is president of the U.S.-Russia Business Council, not the Council for Trade and Economic Cooperation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A bank clerk in Moscow posting exchange rates yesterday for the Russian ruble, which fell 6 percent against the dollar. Although the ruble has lost a third of its value in the last month, money from American and other foreign investors is pouring into Russia. (Reuters) (pg. D6)
 
Graph: "Stumbling Steps" shows Moscow Times Index of 30 private Russian companies from Sept. 12-Oct. 10, daily closes of the ruble against the dollar from Jan.-Oct. (Sources: Skate Press Consulting Agency, Bloomberg Financial Services) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; ; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TRENDS (73%); BONDS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W CLARE SHORT (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1994



287 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 6; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY;
Hurry Up, Knicks: N.H.L. Season Nowhere In Sight

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The National Hockey League commissioner, echoing the words and positions of management in the two-month-old baseball strike, called off the start of the season yesterday for the second time and insured the continued shutdown of two of the four major professional sports leagues.
In extending the owners' lockout of their players, Gary Bettman said the N.H.L. Board of Governors decided unanimously not to open the season until the two sides have a new collective bargaining agreement. That agreement, the commissioner said, "has to address the issues and concerns we have been expressing." 
 Eleven days earlier, Bettman had announced he was postponing the Oct. 1 start of the season until Oct. 15. But now, with 85 games guaranteed to be missed through Saturday, the opening games are not in sight.
"As of this minute, it's not impossible to play 84 games," Bettman said, referring to a full schedule, "but that's something we'll have to monitor on a day-to-day basis."
As his baseball counterparts have done for the past several months, Bettman said the labor dispute could not end until "the union is ready to address our needs." The proposals the players have made, he said, have not addressed those needs. In fact, he asserted, the union took a "step backward" with the proposal it made Monday.
"If they characterize it as a step backward," Bob Goodenow, the players' labor leader, said in a later news conference, "that just highlights our differences."
Based on comments by the chief negotiators, the differences could grow larger in the days ahead. With the first month of the established schedule virtually lost, the owners and players could be heading for the kind of shutdown that abbreviated the baseball season.
Asked how long the shutdown, which yesterday became the longest in league history, could last, Goodenow said, "Long could be months or a year."
The two sides differ on many issues, but the issue at the core of their dispute is the owners' stated desire to retard the escalation of player salaries. It is the same issue that has made October a silent month for major league baseball.
While the baseball owners have proposed a salary cap, their hockey brethren have proposed a tax on payrolls that the players argue would have the effect of a cap. The players have proposed a tax on the payrolls of the 16 teams with the highest revenues, but the owners say that plan doesn't place enough of a "drag" on salaries.
To Bettman, the players' proposal is not realistic. "Their tax doesn't work as a means of keeping player salaries from escalating rapidly," he said. "We've been convinced of that from Day One."
What is the difference in the proposals?
"One will have a drag and the other doesn't, in our view, at all," Bettman said after his news conference at the Sheraton in comparing the two tax plans.
Where would the players have to go to create a tax that would create a sufficient drag?
"They'd have to get up much higher on a graduated basis," he said.
What is much higher?
"I'm not going to negotiate now," Bettman said. "If they want to come have that discussion with me, I'd be thrilled."
But from the sound of things yesterday, the two sides won't be talking any time soon, let alone playing.
Bettman said the owners, at their four-hour meeting at the Waldorf, expressed some sentiment that their tax proposal might not be strong enough, indicating the possibility the league could withdraw the proposal or alter it in a direction away from the union's position.
Goodenow raised the issue of the economic takeaways -- the "Aug. 1 attack," he calls it -- in which the clubs removed preseason benefits and instituted other changes the players have resented bitterly.
"Until the owners appreciate that the players are completely opposed to the N.H.L. takeaway demands," the union leader said from Toronto, "there will be little to discuss."
The players, their labor leader added, "see the approach clearly for what it is and that becomes more and more focused and it becomes more and more daunting for the future."
As he did when he announced the first delay to the start of the season, Bettman refused to use the word "lockout."
Given the opportunity, he said, "It was clear that through Oct. 15 we were in a postponement mode. We're not going to start the season Oct. 15 and on a day-to-day basis, we'll see what has to be canceled."
But, he was pressed, does that mean the league was locking out the players? "We're not opening on the 15th," he said.
In his initial postponement, Bettman said it was possible the season could open Oct. 15 if meaningful progress had been made in the talks. But yesterday he said nothing meaningful has come from the union in the past 10 days, and, in fact, he added, "I'm more discouraged about the course of conduct over the past 10 days than anything else."
The union, he asserted, had made it clear that it wants to maintain the status quo. "That may have been their game plan all along," he said.
Goodenow said it had become clearer that the owners are "committed to a major fight with the players."
"Any concept of a tax on salary is difficult and repugnant for players to take," Goodenow added. "The last few days this committee worked hard to put together a plan to generate the dollars. To have the league come back and say there has been no meaningful progress, it highlights what their intentions are. It highlights what really is going on here and the difficult fight that's ahead."
What would it take to resume bargaining, Goodenow was asked.
"There would have to be a reason for us to talk," he said. "Gary would have to give us a proposal. But right now, given the nature of where we are with the N.H.L.'s takeaway approach, it looks difficult for us to be making much progress in the future."
The owners said the union's latest proposal was a step backward because it lowered the amount of taxes the higher spending clubs would have to pay on payrolls and gate receipts. According to figures the league provided, the Rangers would pay $2,119,000 under the players' latest proposal compared with $2,406,000 under their previous proposal and $3,335,000 under the owners' plan.
Both the union's latest proposal and the owners' proposal call for a 3 percent tax on gate receipts of the 16 teams with the highest revenues.
The union also proposes a 7 percent tax on the payrolls of the top four teams in revenue, 5 percent on the next four, 3 percent on the third tier of four and 1 percent on teams 13 through 16.
The owners' plan focuses on payrolls above the league average. The graduated tax begins at half a percent on all payrolls but grows by 5 percent for every $325,000 above the league average payroll. The rate on the last $325,000 increment would be 122 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rangers' Neil Smith held his hand to his head as Gary Bettman spoke at a news conference yesterday in Manhattan. (pg. B9); Gary Bettman, the N.H.L. commissioner, with the board of governors yesterday at a news conference. (pg. B13) (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (NHL); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN EDMONTON OILERS (94%); DALLAS STARS (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (NHL); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN EDMONTON OILERS (94%); DALLAS STARS (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; LABOR; SALARY CAPS; COLLECTIVE BARGAINING SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); BASEBALL (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); LOCKOUTS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; BETTMAN, GARY (COMR) GARY BETTMAN (95%); BOB GOODENOW (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



288 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE BASKETBALL;
Massimino and U.N.L.V. Close to a Parting of Ways

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev., Oct. 11

 BODY:
Just two years after Jerry Tarkanian was forced out as the basketball coach at Nevada-Las Vegas, his former top assistant, Tim Grgurich, may be in.
With four days before the Runnin' Rebels open practice, Rollie Massimino was still officially the coach. But today he sounded as if he were already gone, awaiting only the completion of a buyout deal offered by the university. 
 "I thought this was a really great experience," Massimino said today of his two-season reign as coach.
The interim president of U.N.L.V., Kenny Guinn, was to meet for a second time with Massimino on Wednesday, when an agreement was expected on a reported $1.5 million buyout of the remaining term of his contract.
"It's strictly economics at this point," Guinn said. "It's not a specific item. He's looking to get some things and so am I. He gave us a figure and I gave him a figure. Now, I've got to see if his figure works for us."
Once an agreement is reached, U.N.L.V. is expected to go after Grgurich, a Seattle SuperSonics assistant who spent 12 years helping Tarkanian build U.N.L.V. into a national power.
Grgurich has the enthusiastic backing of Tarkanian, who was ousted by the school's former university president, Robert Maxson, in a power struggle amid revelations that some players had cavorted with a convicted sports fixer.
"He's the guy I wanted to replace me in the first place," Tarkanian said. "He would have kept the program where it was. They would have been in the Final Four the last two years."
Tarkanian, who won a national title in 1990 and had four Final Four appearances in 19 years with U.N.L.V., hinted that he would not mind becoming involved with the team again if Grgurich were head coach.
"I would do anything he wanted me to do," Tarkanian said. "I'd wear a U.N.L.V. shirt again. I'd be a U.N.L.V. man again."
Massimino's teams failed to make the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament in his two seasons at U.N.L.V. But it was the disclosure in August of a supplemental contract that was to pay Massimino $375,000 a year in addition to his $511,000 salary that started efforts to remove him.
Guinn, who took over from Maxson in May, was also concerned about an expected $750,000 shortfall in basketball revenue this season because of sinking attendance and declining interest in the program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA (LAS VEGAS) UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA (LAS VEGAS) (96%); UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA (LAS VEGAS) (96%); SEATTLE SUPERSONICS (55%); SEATTLE SUPERSONICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA (LAS VEGAS) UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA (LAS VEGAS) (96%); UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA (LAS VEGAS) (96%); SEATTLE SUPERSONICS (55%); SEATTLE SUPERSONICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEVADA, USA (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS BASKETBALL (92%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); TOURNAMENTS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); 

PERSON: MASSIMINO, ROLLIE; GRGURICH, TIM JERRY TARKANIAN (92%); KENNY C GUINN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



289 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: AT THE WHITE HOUSE;
Clinton's Gain: The Big Stick Speaks

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
With his highly visible successes this week at the expense of dictators in Haiti and Iraq, Bill Clinton's political luck may finally have turned, just four weeks before Election Day.
Instead of counting the casualties from what would have been a hugely unpopular Caribbean invasion, which had seemed likely only two weeks ago, the President can revel in the retreat of at least some elements of Saddam Hussein's Republican Guard, the imminent departure for exile of the Haitian leadership and the return to the island of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
 Instead of being remembered as the man who flip-flopped on Somalia and Bosnia, who raised taxes and pushed through the North American Free Trade Agreement, the President is suddenly clothed in the politically protective armor of Commander-in-Chief.
Or as The Daily News in New York put it, in one of those page-one headlines that jam a complex truth into a few words: "Clinton 2, Bullies 0."
The news from abroad gave the President a splendid send-off -- "not the usual shot in the foot we've been used to," one of his aides said -- as he began his effort to limit anticipated Democratic losses in the midterm elections with a trip to Michigan today.
Republican and Democratic politicians agreed that Mr. Clinton has helped his own standing in the last few days, even though a CNN poll conducted last weekend, before the good news started rolling in from Kuwait and Port-au-Prince, showed the President's approval ratings unimproved. Presidents almost always get at least a temporary lift from crises abroad, unless they bungle them; Mr. Clinton gained 7 percentage points after he sent American cruise missiles to bomb Baghdad last June.
Several Democrats said they thought the President's gains might help their party in the current campaign, in which his unpopularity has been a major element. But they cautioned that it was too early to tell for sure, and most Republicans said they thought the themes of the races now under way were too thoroughly established for a foreign-affairs issue to change them much.
"This freezes the linebackers for just a moment," said Peter Hart, a leading Democratic pollster. "The Republicans have been wreaking havoc with us. Now, at just the moment when the Democrats have to regroup if they're going to pull some victories out, we get this. We'll see in the next month whether we can take advantage of the opening that he has created."
Don Sipple, a Republican consultant working for several prominent candidates this fall, commented: "This helps Clinton quite a bit, because he's now doing rather well in an area that was not exactly a strong suit for him. It may energize the Democrats a little, but I can't see it redefining the campaign of 1994, which is mostly about crime and taxes and other domestic issues."
George Stephanopoulos, one of Mr. Clinton's political advisers, said tonight, "We're not going to discuss the politics of the situation." The reason, of course, is that doing so would open the White House to the charge that the President had acted out of self-interest, not on principle.
But Robert Squier, a Democratic strategist, said that Mr. Clinton, "given an opportunity to act Presidential, has taken it and has done a pretty good job at it, and Democrats will get credit for it." He even suggested that in an indirect way, the President had addressed his "character problem," by showing that "when he needs to be strong for the whole country, he can be."
Mr. Squier suggested that the White House, "if it is wise," would seek to use Mr. Clinton's new credibility on foreign policy "to bring the public, very gently, back around to his successes on the economy, which is what he was elected for, and which he has never received very much credit for."
For his part, Mr. Sipple said he thought that "the die is already cast for 1994." At moments of great international tension, he said, "the public supports the President, but it doesn't always support his party's candidates for Congress -- and certainly not its nominees for governor."
The historical record bears him out. But this year an unusually large number of races for the Senate, where the Republicans need a net gain of seven seats for control, are rated as dead heats by the polls. Any shift at all in the political mood could have an impact in those. In addition, there were some signs of a modest Democratic comeback in states with tight Senate races like Massachusetts, Tennessee and Oklahoma, even before this week.
There is always the possibility, of course, that things could go sour in Haiti, as Mr. Clinton himself said in his televised speech on Monday night. The same is true in the Persian Gulf, where the Administration is apparently bent on creating and maintaining a kind of demilitarized zone north of the Kuwaiti border, to keep Mr. Hussein from provoking repeated crises.
But for the moment, Mr. Clinton has answered those who called him irresolute and inept when he kept changing his position on Bosnia, decided to pull out of Somalia earlier than planned and temporized on Haiti earlier this year.
For the moment, there are no more jibes from those who argued that he had, in effect, ceded control of American foreign policy to Jimmy Carter by allowing the former President to cut deals in North Korea and in Haiti. But Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana, the most prominent Republican spokesman on foreign policy on Capitol Hill, while praising Mr. Clinton for making "a strong start" and taking "the right course," warned that there will be "insistent voices" suggesting that "someone might be sent to Baghdad."
The whole balance between foreign and domestic policies has been fraught with ironies for Bill Clinton. He charged George Bush, his predecessor, with spending too much time on foreign policy and too little on the economy and other domestic topics.
He has lost ground with the electorate for a number of reasons, including his own personal difficulties in the Whitewater affair and allegations of promiscuity, as well as the failure of some of his domestic initiatives. But the American public, following its habit of caring little about foreign policy unless it thinks the nation's interests abroad are in unsafe hands, has also faulted Mr. Clinton for what has seemed to many a feckless performance.
"You have to pass a kind of test," said a Democratic senator. "Until now, he was a question mark. Now he seems to be turning that around."
In the process, especially if fighting should actually break out on the Arabian Peninsula, there is a chance that he can rescue his party, if not from impending electoral defeat, at least from complete catastrophe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (94%); IRAQ (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) ; SENATE (US) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) ; SENATE (US) NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; HAITI; ; MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (94%); IRAQ (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS ; TRAVEL, PERSONAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); POLITICS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



290 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: THE TACTICS;
U.S. Sees Signs of Iraqi Retreat but Continues Buildup

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Pentagon officials reported today the first signs that Iraq was beginning to retreat from the Kuwait border. But American troops continued to pour into the area while Washington worked on a plan to keep Iraqi forces in check.
To press Iraq to proceed with its withdrawals, the Pentagon announced that it had sent 100 more warplanes to the Persian Gulf, which would bring the total number of American planes and helicopters in the region to about 650. 
 The Defense Department also announced it was putting 155,000 ground troops on alert, an unusual public statement by the American military, which is not normally inclined to talk about potential deployments. The Administration has already said it plans to send 36,000 troops to the Persian Gulf area.
The new military moves came as Clinton Administration officials began to consult with allies on establishing a large demilitarized zone in southern Iraq to prevent the Government from massing its troops along the Kuwait border in the future.
Administration officials said the idea was to establish in southern Iraq the territorial equivalent of the no-flight zone, which bans all flights below the 32d parallel. Such an action would in effect bar Iraq from moving its forces within striking range of Kuwait. The United States and its allies have barred Iraqi planes from two areas, in the north in an effort to protect the Kurds and in the south to prevent attacks on Shiite Muslims.
Administration officials said they were discussing exactly what form the zone would take and whether it would have to be approved by the United Nations Security Council.
The White House refrained from publicly pushing the plan for fear that it would lead President Saddam Hussein to conclude that he was losing control over southern Iraq and prompt him to attack Kuwait.
President Clinton said that based on intelligence reports, he was cautiously optimistic that Iraq was pulling back from a military showdown. "I'm hopeful," Mr. Clinton said as he campaigned for Democrats in Detroit. "It's a little early yet to reach a final conclusion. We're watching it very closely."
Iraq first announced on Monday that it was withdrawing its troops from the Kuwait border. And today the official Iraqi news agency quoted Foreign Minister Mohammed Said al-Sahaf as saying that most of the troops had been removed and that two brigades near the border would be withdrawn soon.
But American intelligence reports painted a more uncertain picture.
Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said at a Pentagon briefing that intelligence reports indicated that Iraqi forces had lowered their alert status and that some Iraqi forces were leaving or heading to rail lines to load equipment for the move north. But many Iraqi troops were still near the border and some units were still moving south.
More important, Pentagon officials said that they had no idea where the Iraqi forces leaving the Kuwait border would go or how far they would be from it.
"The latest information we have now indicates that there is fairly broad movement in most of those units that had been brought down south," General Shalikashvili said. "There is still an indication of considerable units remaining.
"I'm not at all prepared to say the crisis is over in any way."
Top Pentagon officials said that by sending more reinforcements, the Clinton Administration is doing more than establishing a force to defend Kuwait. It is deploying a force that could push Iraqi troops well away from the border of Kuwait, if necessary, and keep them away, Pentagon officials said.
"The force has the capability to make Saddam Hussein pay the price if he chooses not to withdraw those forces and continues to threaten its neighbors," General Shalikashvili said.
Gen. Merrill McPeak, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, made a similar point in a meeting with reporters today.
"With the forces that are already on the ground in Turkey and Saudi Arabia and the augmentation that has already been ordered, we would have a very substantial likelihood that we can conduct a successful offensive as well as close defense operations," General McPeak said.
As with the 1991 Persian Gulf war, airpower has played a central role in American military planning. On Monday, Mr. Clinton announced that he was dispatching 356 more aircraft to the Gulf, including antitank aircraft and long-range strike planes that could take the war deep into Iraq.
Today, the Pentagon said that another 100 planes were on the way and that 126 more had been alerted to prepare for possible deployment.
Detailing its ground deployment, the Pentagon announced that it now had 3,638 Army soldiers and marines in the gulf area, with more than 32,000 still on the way. The Pentagon raised the number of troops on alert from about 30,000 to 155,000.
The deployment also raised the sensitive question of calling up military reserves. More than 8,000 will be required according to current plans. As the Administration did in Haiti, it will ask reservists to volunteer before calling up others.
Defense Secretary William J. Perry will leave for Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait on Wednesday to consult with Middle East allies and inspect American troops.
One of the key issues for the Pentagon is how to make Iraqi troops that have withdrawn stay a safe distance from Kuwait.
A plan being developed by Administration officials would establish a huge demilitarized zone north of Kuwait. Mr. Perry said that one idea would be to take the no-flight zone over southern Iraq, which is defined as Iraqi territory south of the 32d parallel, and extend it to the ground.
"We are now conducting a no-fly zone south of the 32d parallel, which we do not allow Iraqi aircraft to fly," Mr. Perry said in interview on the ABC news program "Nightline." "And we could conceivably extend that no-fly zone to include prohibition on certain kinds of ground equipment as well."
Mr. Perry said that using airpower to enforce Iraqi compliance with such a zone would be "fairly straightforward."
"We might continue that for some number of years, depending on what develops in the situation," he said.
General Shalikashvili also said that enforcing a weapons-free zone in the barren desert of southern Iraq would be a relatively easy proposition -- much easier certainly than enforcing weapons-free zones in the heavily forested and hilly areas of Bosnia.
But apart from the military aspects of the plan, some tricky political and legal issues remain. Some Administration officials said the United States and its allies had sufficient authority under existing Security Council resolutions to impose such a ban. But it was not clear that all of the United States allies, like Britain, agreed with the plan.
And if Washington were to seek Security Council approval of a new resolution authorizing a tank-exclusion zone, it was not clear whether Russia and China would go along.
In an indication of the possible diplomatic complications to come, President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia sent a team of Russian Foreign Ministry officials to Iraq.
Russia has long had close trade and foreign relations with Iraq, and during the 1991 gulf war Moscow made repeated efforts to encourage a diplomatic compromise that may have spared the Iraqi Army from destruction. Before Iraq moved troops to Kuwait's border earlier this month, Russia was sympathetic to Iraq's case for lifting economic sanctions.
"It makes no sense to try and corner Iraq," Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev said today, according to the Interfax news agency. "On the contrary, Baghdad must be encouraged in every way" to comply with the United Nations demands for lifting sanctions.
At the United Nations, the head of a United Nations commission overseeing the dismantlement of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction said Iraq's troop deployment and threats against United Nations inspectors raised new questions about Baghdad's trustworthiness.
The report is important in the debate over whether to lift economic sanctions on Iraq. American officials say they believe that Iraqi military deployments near Kuwait were intended to put pressure on the United Nations to lift the oil embargo and other sanctions.

GRAPHIC: Photos: American M1-A1 Abrams tanks headed off along a familiar road yesterday, churning toward Kuwait's border with Iraq. Although Baghdad says most of its troops have pulled back, the United States said Iraqi troops were still a threat and moved more men and machines to guard the frontier. (Associated Press); Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that while there were signs that Iraqi troops were leaving the Kuwait border, "I'm not at all prepared to say the crisis is over in any way." (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. A10)
 
Map: "FORCES: Where the Troops Are" shows where military forces are assembling. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KUWAIT (95%); GULF STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); IRAQI NEWS AGENCY (52%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; PERSIAN GULF; DETROIT (MICH); IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KUWAIT (95%); GULF STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TRAVEL, PERSONAL ARMED FORCES (93%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); APPROVALS (73%); HELICOPTERS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); RELIGION (64%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



291 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: THE DIPLOMACY;
Head of U.N. Inspection Team Says Baghdad Threatens Weapons-Monitoring Effort

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 11

 BODY:
The head of a United Nations team monitoring Iraq's weapons programs said today that threats to inspectors and Iraqi troop movements on the Kuwait border raised new questions about Baghdad's trustworthiness just as the monitoring system was beginning to operate.
Rolf Ekeus, the head of a special commission on Iraqi compliance with a United Nations order to halt production of weapons of mass destruction, released a largely favorable report today on the installation of an inspection system that could have cleared the way for the Security Council to consider lifting sanctions against Iraq. Mr. Ekeus will formally present the report to the Security Council on Thursday. 
 But almost immediately after a news conference during which he said he had warned Iraqi officials not to act impatiently in pressing for an immediate end to a worldwide embargo on Iraqi oil, Mr. Ekeus went to Washington to discuss his concerns for the safety of his arms monitors in Baghdad as a result of the troop buildup on both sides of the Kuwaiti border.
American officials said he would meet with Anthony Lake, President Clinton's national security adviser.
Mr. Ekeus said that Iraq's threats not to cooperate with the arms inspectors now based there "creates an obvious question mark around the credibility of our effort."
Mr. Ekeus was in Iraq last week, putting the finishing touches on his report. He acknowledged today that the document seems to have been the "trigger" that set off a new round of Iraqi belligerence.
The threats to arms monitors also play into the hands of the United States, which faced opposition in the Security Council to its determination to keep crushing economic sanctions in place against Iraq as long a possible.
United States officials said that Iraq must do more than allow the arms monitoring to take place before the Council can discuss lifting sanctions to allow Baghdad to resume selling oil or importing most goods. Iraq's position is that it is entitled to begin selling oil as soon as the arms monitoring system is up and running.
American officials here repeated their position today that after the Iraqi troop buildup in recent days, President Saddam Hussein has little credibility on any score. The United States delegate, Madeleine K. Albright, has been canvassing other permanent members of the Security Council for ways to take further action against Iraq, already all but crushed under a mountain of sanctions.
Among the ideas mentioned here today was to establish a zone in southern Iraq below the 32d parallel in which ground forces would be restricted similar to the way planes are in the no-flight zone there. But Ms. Albright spent the day in Washington, and could not attend a meeting of the five permanent Council members scheduled for this evening. She was expected to take up the issue when she returns on Wednesday.
Sir David Hannay, Britain's delegate and president of the Security Council this month, said there had been no discussion of a buffer zone in southern Iraq. But he added that it was possible that Iraqi's troop movements could be interpreted as a violation of a 1991 cease-fire agreement and that the Baghdad Government had "dealt a very serious blow to their credibility."
The Clinton Administration is trying to convince the Security Council that such a violation would give Washington blanket authority to move against Iraq in any way it chooses.
Mr. Ekeus said today that the monitoring system was now operating and that the only significant test would be of Iraq's continued cooperation with the inspectors. In the past, Iraqi officials have been uncooperative and threatening on numerous occasions.
"My honest assessment is that we had a very good chance to get a situation where the Council could be open to, say, in six-month time period, lift the embargo," Mr. Ekeus said a little ruefully. "I felt we had something coming together on this."
He said he had cautioned Iraqi officials that although his report was positive and cleared the way for lifting at least the oil embargo, Baghdad had to understand that these decisions took place in a political context. The Iraqis, he said, "gave me a message of despair, depression, skepticism."
Mr. Ekeus's commission is due to make its next major report to the Security Council in six months. At that point, if not sooner, several Security Council members, including Russia and France, had hoped to press for an easing of sanctions, so that Iraqi oil imports could begin to raise money needed to pay Baghdad's debts.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "DIPLOMACY: Imposing Restrictions on Iraq" outlines Security Council Resolution 661, adopted on Aug. 6, 1990 and Resolution 706 adopted August 15, 1991.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KUWAIT (94%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KUWAIT (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CHEMICAL WARFARE; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TRENDS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; EKEUS, ROLF ; LAKE, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



292 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 Three pioneers in game theory won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science to three economists. The award underscores a significant shift in thinking in economics. Classical theories that focus on how markets behave are giving way to game theory, an approach that focuses on the give and take among "players." [Page D1.] Profiles of the three economists. [D6.]
 
Markets
 Stocks staged a broad and powerful rally, lifted by better-than-expected profits from a number of large companies. [D1.]
 The dollar was little changed against other currencies. [D20.]
 Gold prices tumbled after tensions in the Persian Gulf appeared to have eased. Crude oil prices also declined. [D20.]
 Prices of Treasury securities rose. Investors continued to be encouraged by Friday's weaker-than-expected jobs report. [D21.]
 
Companies
 A major Hollywood studio is being formed by Jeffrey Katzenberg, a former top Disney executive, along with Steven Spielberg and David Geffen, film industry executives say. [D1.]
 National Medical and American Medical plan to merge, creating create the nation's second-largest hospital chain. [D1.]
 Chrysler posted a 54 percent increase in quarterly earnings, showing strong demand for its mini-vans and other trucks. [D2.]
 The dismissals at Ernst & Young's legal department shook outside lawyers and outplacement counselors. [D2.]
 Continental will sell a workers' compensation insurance unit to Fremont General for $250 million. [D21.]
 T.W.A. is seeking another huge revamping, proposing that creditors exchange $800 million in debt for new debt and equity. [D5.]
Conagra plans to sell six noncore businesses. [D5.]
 Biogen's stock continued to fall on results of a proposed drug for multiple sclerosis. Shares of Chiron, a rival, surged. [D5.]
 Pepsico said earnings rose 18 percent in the third quarter. [D5.]
 Some members of the Shoen family won a $1.47 billion verdict. The family, which has been feuding, owns U-Haul. [D5.],
 Goldman, Sachs named 58 new partners. [D7.]
 SBC Communications will take a 10 percent stake in a French cellular company in a deal worth $626 million. [D9.]
 BellSouth reached an agreement in China to set up cellular, wireless and long-distance telephone networks in two cities. [D9.]
 Sears is examining taking over the site of the Abraham & Straus store at Herald Square in Manhattan. [B3.]
 
Business Technology
 Can Packard Bell maintain its recent success? Bigger competitors are now turning their sights to Packard Bell's turf of selling low-priced PC's at discount and department store chains. [D1.]
 Intel won a round in its copyright fight over software that is part of an Advanced Micro Devices clone of an Intel chip. [D8.]
 
International
 The ruble plunged, forcing the Russian Government to intervene in an effort to stave off further economic instability. [A1.]
 
Today's Columns
 Ethan Allen has revamped itself and its look. Some analysts see it as an attractive investment. Market Place. [D10.]
 How Hollywood sells films can be a lesson for mainstream marketing. Advertising. [D22.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (82%); GS (NYSE) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (53%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (53%); INTC (NASDAQ) (51%); AMD (NYSE) (50%); AMD (FRA) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (82%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (54%); PEPSICO INC (53%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (53%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (52%); INTEL CORP (51%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); GOLD MARKETS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); HOSPITALS (67%); LAWYERS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (66%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (65%); COPYRIGHT (65%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (51%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (50%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (52%); DAVID GEFFEN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



293 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Ethan Allen revamps its furniture, and its stock outlook.

BYLINE: By Leslie Wayne 

 BODY:
PERHAPS one of the best-known names in American home furnishings is Ethan Allen Interiors. The company's colonial-style furniture has graced middle-class homes for decades. But after a buyout that brought new management, Ethan Allen has an entirely new design style -- hip, contemporary and fresh -- and that also describes its new investment outlook.
Ethan Allen went public in March 1993 at $18 a share and climbed steadily to a high of $32 in February. Since then, the stock has dropped and recently has been trading between $22 and $24, closing yesterday down 12.5 cents, to $21.50, on the New York Stock Exchange. The price slid as rising interest rates cooled investors' ardor on all home-furnishings stocks on the theory that a slowing economy and rising rates make people less inclined to buy furniture or build new homes. 
 But some analysts, while still maintaining that Ethan Allen is indeed sensitive to interest rates and economic cycles, see the company as an attractive long-term investment. And if interest rates should dip and housing starts remain strong, they say, the stock becomes a buy.
Despite its all-American name and a lineage that goes back to 1932, Ethan Allen's rebirth is the result of hard work by a political refugee from Kashmir, M. Farooq Kathwari, the company's chief executive. He was part of a group that acquired the company, which is based in Danbury, Conn., in 1989 and took it public nearly four years later. A former accessories buyer for Ethan Allen, Mr. Kathwari has brought zip by modernizing its manufacturing process, updating the look of the furniture, increasing the annual advertising budget to $47 million and expanding the number of stores, both in the United States and, in smaller numbers, abroad.
Unlike many in the furniture business, Ethan Allen is a manufacturer and a retailer -- and in a fragmented industry it is the only retailer with a national presence. In fact, with 275 stores, it is the nation's largest furniture retailer and one devoted exclusively to its own product.
Throughout the summer, as home-furnishings stocks tumbled by as much as 40 percent, Ethan Allen drifted down, but at a slower rate. Still, analysts are cautiously optimistic. Baby boomers, now in their 30's and 40's, take home furnishing seriously. New-home sales have remained surprisingly strong and Ethan Allen is well positioned to control costs and quickly respond to changing customer demands.
"I'm very excited about Ethan Allen," said Stephen J. Dobi, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs & Company, "It's a superb company with excellent management that is doing a marvelous job." Mr. Dobi sees Ethan Allen as undervalued and thinks the stock should reach $27 by next year.
William W. Epperson, an analyst with Interstate/Johnson Lane in Richmond, agrees that investors who see Ethan Allen as just an interest-rate play are shortsighted. He says buying the stock at $22 or so means investors "could make good money," particularly if interest rates should drop again.
Dana Telsey, an analyst with Bear, Stearns, cautions against looking too closely at housing statistics. She points to a lag effect -- it takes about 15 to 18 months after a home is bought before consumers have enough money to furnish it. New-home sales, in this cycle, peaked in the 1993 fourth quarter with a seasonally adjusted rate of 1.5 million units, and the most recent numbers -- a seasonally adjusted 703,000 units for August -- were surprisingly strong.
Linda Killian, an analyst at Renaissance Capital, says Ethan Allen, whose public offering was recommended by her firm, is successfully repositioning itself. "It pioneered 20th-century manufacturing advances in what was essentially an 18th- and 19th-century way of making furniture," Ms. Killian said, "and it's repositioned its look from its boring colonial lines."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ETH (NYSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (90%); NAICS337122 NONUPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (90%); SIC2515 MATTRESSES, FOUNDATIONS, & CONVERTIBLE BEDS (90%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (90%); SIC2511 WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE EX. UPHOLSTERED (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (56%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (56%); 

COMPANY: ETHAN ALLEN INC ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: ETHAN ALLEN INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (56%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (56%); 

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); FURNITURE STORES (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); RETAILERS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FURNITURE MFG (78%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); BUDGETS (73%); ACQUISITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BABY BOOMERS (60%); REFUGEES (52%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE M FAROOQ KATHWARI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



294 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Game Theory Captures a Nobel

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
The 1994 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science, a $930,000 award to be divided among three pioneers in the field of game theory, celebrates achievements in building the foundations for analyzing interactions among businesses, nations and even biological species.
But just as important, the prize awarded to John F. Nash of Princeton University, John C. Harsanyi of the University of California at Berkeley and Reinhard Selten of the University of Bonn acknowledges a sea change in economics that has occurred in the last two decades. 
 Economics has been a discipline dominated by the concept of perfect competition -- competition among so many participants that no single buyer or seller need worry about the responses of others.
And perfect competition has proved to be a powerful idea, one that predicted how free-market economies would evolve and gave policy makers a reliable compass for figuring how best to encourage growth as well as a fair division of the economic pie.
But in a world of hostile takeovers, trade wars and big government, classical economics is giving way to game theory, an approach that focuses on the give and take among "players." While classical economics works for the international market in wheat with thousands of buyers and sellers, it takes game theory to try to figure out how Safeway will change the price of English muffins if the A.& P. marks down bagels.
Game theory "opens up terrain for systematic thinking that was previously closed," said Paul Krugman of Stanford University, who has applied game theory to world trade.
John von Neumann and Oskar Morgenstern, economists at Princeton, invented the field. Their book published in 1944, "The Theory of Games and Economic Behavior," was the first to delve deeply into the likely consequences of strategic interactions, where all the actors must consider the potential for reaction. Both men are dead, and, therefore, not eligible for the economics prize, which is not one of the five awards established in the will of Alfred Nobel but rather a special prize created in 1968 as a memorial to Nobel.
John Nash, who received a Ph.D. from Princeton in 1950, is widely credited with laying out the formal mathematical principles of "games" -- think of them as rivalries -- in which everyone knows what everyone else knows and everyone is motivated by self-interest.
"Nash is the point of departure" for all modern game theory, argues Avinash Dixit, an economist at Princeton and a co-author of "Thinking Strategically," the first guidepost for predicting the consequences of rivalries.
One glaring limitation of Dr. Nash's work is the assumption about perfect knowledge of rivals' motives and resources. Compaq does not know exactly what Apple is prepared to invest to build a better laptop computer. For that matter it does not even know whether other companies are preparing to jump into the market, and under what circumstances. And here the work of John Harsanyi, a Hungarian-born mathematical economist, filled the theoretical breach in the late 1960's.
"Harsanyi gave shape to the fog in real-world games," said Barry Nalebuff of the School of Organization and Management at Yale. In the Harsanyi world, nothing need be known for certain as long as it is predictable in terms of chance. Thus when Compaq and Apple are figuring pricing strategies, they need only assign probabilities to the other's uncertain responses and counterresponses.
Another limitation to the Nash approach is that it did not offer insight into what would happen if more than one ending to the game was possible, even if the players acted consistently and in their own best interests. It does not stretch the imagination, for example, to think of the outbreak of World War I as only one of many plausible consequences to the diplomatic and military maneuvering in August 1914.
The German economist Reinhard Selten enriched the Nash model in 1965 by offering theories for discriminating between game outcomes that are reasonable and unreasonable. The mathematics is quite complex, but some of the underlying ideas are intuitive. For example, an outcome dependent on someone's taking an unreasonable threat seriously (as in "buy my rug for $200 or I will kill your first-born child") may be discarded.
All this may seem as abstract and impractical as the theory of perfect competition -- and for many years it was dismissed as just that. Nonetheless by the 1970's many economists were turning to game theory for inspiration, if only because they lacked answers to questions that turned on strategic behavior.
Thomas Schelling, an economist now at the University of Maryland who is in a class by himself in applied game theory, decades ago introduced ideas like the strategic value of brinkmanship. Indeed, some think he ranks with Dr. Nash as a founder of the field.
The great bulk of work by economists in game theory has been in an area where its insights had been most sorely missed: the organization of industry.
Robin Wells, an economist at the Stanford Business School, offers an example. Intel, the microprocessor giant, gave up an effective monopoly on the 86-series chip by allowing Advanced Micro Devices to share the technology. Intel, it seems, decided that computer makers would not lock themselves into a new microprocessor technology unless they were protected from future price-gouging by a monopolist. So by licensing another manufacturer, Intel successfully increased the demand for its own product.
Here, game theory explained corporate behavior that made no sense in nonstrategic terms. Game theorists have also been hired to create corporate strategy from scratch, most notably in the case of the Federal Communications Commission's auction of bands on the radio spectrum for use in wireless communications. "Every major bidder hired academic game theorists as consultants," said Andrew Schotter, an economist at New York University.
In the view of Mr. Schotter, however, the main value of game theory in formulating corporate strategy is more modest: getting executives to think carefully about response and counterresponse in the marketplace. The purer gold, Mr. Schotter believes, will be mined by "institution builders" who must make rules to induce cooperative behavior. Corporations, for example, need to create incentives to minimize the conflict between their own interests and those of their employees.
What works in the private sector might work in the public sector: The F.C.C. did, in fact, hire game theorists to set the rules for the spectrum auction. And the potential is far broader -- changing the tax code to induce voluntary compliance, for example, or designing monetary policy to gain the most credibility for the Federal Reserve as an inflation fighter with the least risk of setting off a recession.


GRAPHIC: Game theory will undergo one of its biggests tests ever in December, when the Federal Communications Commission begins to auction radio licenses for new wireless "personal communication services."
Chart: "The Real World of Game Theory"
 The F.C.C.'s goal is to raise the maximum amount of money, at least $10 billion, and it will use game theory to reach that target.
 Game theory focuses on how "players" in economic "games" behave when, to reach their goals, they have to predict how their opponents will react to their moves. The concepts developed by the Nobel winners were used by other game theorists to devise the auction rules. EDMUND L. ANDREWS
 
Coping with THe Winner's Curse
Like poker, auctions are a 'game of incomplete information.' Bidders have to speculate about both the value of the good being sold and their opponents' strategies. The great fear is the 'winner's curse' of paying too much. But if all bidders are overly cautious as a result, the auctioneer runs the risk that the bids will be below the value of the good being sold.
 
Maximizing Information
 Game theory says bidders become more confident with more information, so the F.C.C. has designed the auctions to be as open as possible. Unlike most auctions, where goods are sold one after the other, bidding for all the F.C.C. licenses will occur simultaneously. By seeing how other licenses are being valued, and how their oponents are bidding, bidders can react without fear of paying too much. In such a case, the F.C.C. hopes, the proceeds will meet its goal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (BERKELEY); UNIVERSITY OF BONN FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (BERKELEY); UNIVERSITY OF BONN FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; NOBEL PRIZES AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAKEOVERS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MATHEMATICS (71%); WRITERS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); PRICE CHANGES (51%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, JOHN F (DR); HARSANYI, JOHN C (DR); SELTEN, REINHARD (PROF); PASSELL, PETER; VON NEUMANN, JOHN; MORGENSTERN, OSKAR PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



295 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Profit News Helps Dow Rise 55.51

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
A flurry of strong third-quarter earnings reports helped propel the stock market to its largest gain in a month.
With corporate leaders like Chrysler, Motorola and Pepsico announcing better-than-expected profits, the Dow Jones industrial average scored its third consecutive double-digit gain, surging 55.51 points. Rising bond prices again allowed the stock market to move higher on its own steam. On the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond, the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from price, fell to 7.86 percent yesterday from 7.90 on Friday. [Page D21.] 
 The rally yesterday "was a reaction to an oversold position," said Edward D. Walczak, chief investment officer of Vontobel U.S.A. "But things are not attractive for the market as a whole."
Program trading, or computer-guided orders, played a significant role yesterday, accounting for almost half of the market's advance, according to Birinyi Associates, which monitors this activity.
"In a lot of cases when the market runs up, you see money come out a little bit," said Jeffrey Rubin, an analyst for Birinyi. "In this case, it didn't come out. People wanted to be in this market and the numbers clearly show it."
Shortly after 11:30 A.M., the Dow was up 50 points, setting off the New York Stock Exchange's limits on index-linked trading for the first time since August. Although the limits remained in effect for the rest of the day, the average rose as much as 61.23 points.
At the close, the Dow stood at 3,876.83, up 1.45 percent for the day. Other indexes rose in tandem, with the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index up 6.75 points, or 1.47 percent, to 465.79, and the Nasdaq composite index up 8.76 points, or 1.16 percent, to 765.57.
The list of winners was huge, with 1,560 advancing stocks on the Big Board, compared with 668 losers. And the rally was unusually broad based, with virtually all of the equity groups advancing.
Chrysler led the auto sector, after reporting a profit of $1.76 a share, compared with $1.13 in the corresponding period a year earlier and higher than analysts' forecasts. Chrysler shares rose 5/8, to 46 1/2, while General Motors advanced 1 5/8, to 47 1/8, and Ford increased 1 1/8, to 29 3/8.
Energy issues were buoyed by a Pentagon announcement that Iraqi troops appeared to be ready to withdraw from the Kuwait border area. Some analysts also said oil prices could increase soon, because it was now less likely that the United Nations would lift its economic sanctions on Iraq. Crude oil for November delivery fell 29 cents, to $17.70 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Mobil was up 7/8, to 80 5/8, while Exxon was up 3/8, to 59, and Chevron was up 7/8, to 42 7/8.
Many financial companies moved upward along with the bond market. The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, gained 1/2, to 53 1/2; American International Group rose 1/2, to 89 7/8, and Providian advanced 7/8, to 31 3/8.
Both Motorola and Pepsico jumped on higher net income, with Motorola up 1 3/8, to 54 1/8, and Pepsico up 2 1/4, to 34 3/4. Procter & Gamble touched an all-time high of 62 7/8, closing at 62 3/8, up 2 1/2, after the company said it expected to report record third-quarter earnings. Apple Computer also touched an all-time high of 41 7/8, closing at 39 5/8, up 3/4, after forecasting that fiscal four-quarter profits would top Wall Street estimates by at least 38 percent.
Among the special situations, the SFM Corporation, a thinly traded toy maker, spurted 13 7/8, to 46 1/4, a new high. Yesterday, the company announced preliminary third-quarter sales and earnings increases of more than 300 percent.
Shares of SFM, whose stockholders will consider a 4-for-1 stock split next Tuesday, had a huge run-up in August. The highly volatile stock more than quadrupled in less than four weeks before retreating slightly.
SFM also said that it would ask stockholders at a coming special meeting to approve conversion to a holding company format. As recently as April, the stock sold for as low as 7 1/8.
International Paper, which reported higher earnings, nevertheless lost 3/8 to close at 77 1/2. And Sequoia Systems, a computer systems maker, plunged 9/16 , to 315/16 , a day after saying that it expected a smaller profit for the fiscal first quarter.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (51%); ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) PEPSICO INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; COMPANY REPORTS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (63%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



296 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CRIME;
Pataki Urging Longer Terms In Crime Plan

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

 BODY:
State Senator George E. Pataki yesterday called for holding violent criminals in prison longer as the central element of his anti-crime program for New York. The Republican candidate for governor proposed to do this by lengthening sentences and by denying parole or work release to violent felons.
He would also stiffen sentences for crimes committed with guns and reinstitute the death penalty. 
 As he has campaigned, Mr. Pataki has criticized the parole and work-release programs as a reason for the state's crime problem. But yesterday was the first time he spelled out how he would attack the problem.
His opponent, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who questioned how the state could afford Mr. Pataki's proposal, will offer his crime plan today.
Mr. Pataki's plan does not spell out how it would affect the prison population or the state budget. He acknowledged that the proposal, announced a week after his plan for large cuts in the state personal income tax, could mean building more cells at a cost he could not estimate. Correction officials say prison cells cost $100,000 each to build and $25,000 a year each to operate.
Mr. Pataki said he believed he could both cut taxes and, if necessary, build more cells. "We're talking about the tax cuts, and they are a very important and critical part of how we are going to change this state over the next four years because we have to create jobs and opportunity," he said. "But we have to create opportunity with a better economic climate and also with safer streets. They go hand in hand."
If faced with a difficult choice of one or the other, he said, he would opt for his crime plan.
He unveiled the plan at his Manhattan campaign headquarters at a news conference, flanked by the parents of a 29-year-old man with cerebral palsy who was stabbed to death this summer near Poughkeepsie.
"We're going to go after the violent criminals," he said. "We're going to go after the violent felons, and particularly the career felons, who prey on decent and law-abiding people of this state."
Mr. Pataki's proposal changed shape somewhat in the course of the day yesterday. At the news conference, he said simply that if elected governor, he would abolish parole for violent felons. An aide said later that Mr. Pataki meant that no violent felons would be allowed out of prison before serving their minimum sentences.
But by day's end, his plan had become more sweeping: Pataki aides said he would seek an entirely new sentencing structure for violent criminals that would have no provisions for parole. The new sentencing structure would eliminate the state's present system of proscribing a minimum and a maximum term -- for example three to nine years -- in favor of a fixed flat sentence, longer than current minimums.
As governor, Mr. Pataki could propose legislation and could lobby members but he has no independent power to impose such changes. The State Legislature, which is divided on many issues, has been especially divided on how to fight crime.
Mr. Cuomo, who proposed a similar flat sentencing in 1985, only to have it rejected by the Legislature, ridiculed his rival's plan, saying he could never pay for it.
"He doesn't have the $7 billion for the tax cut that he has already asked for," Mr. Cuomo said at a ground-breaking ceremony for a new minor-league baseball field in Syracuse. "Now what he is talking about is spending billions dollars more on prison cells. The absurdity of his position becomes more and more obvious."
The Cuomo administration, while not contesting the high level of violence, called into question Mr. Pataki's assumption that prisoners were being paroled too soon. According to statistics from the State Department of Correctional Services, prisoners for all crimes in New York serve an average of 30 months, compared to 26 months nationally.
James Flateau, a department spokesman, said he could not estimate how much a new sentencing structure for violent felons would cost. But he said exempting violent felons from work-release programs, as Mr. Pataki proposed yesterday, would disqualify one quarter of the 6,300 in work release, which he said would mean the immediate need for an additional 1,575 cells.
At an annual cost of $125,000 to build and operate, the additional cells would cost nearly $200 million the first year, he said.
In a year when voters have clamored for action on crime from government at all levels, Mr. Pataki's spokeswoman, Zenia Mucha, said his plan to reform sentencing would be modeled on the Federal sentences, which were changed to flat sentences in 1987. She said the present sentencing system would still apply for people convicted of nonviolent crimes, which accounts for about 60 percent of the 65,000 people in state prison.
Beyond his plan for tougher sentencing, Mr. Pataki said he would eliminate the work-release program for violent felons, saying it has wrongly been used as a way to control prison population. He cited figures showing that reliance on work release has increased almost sixfold since 1987, from 4,837 inmates to over 24,000 today. In 1993, he said, 4,000 inmates walked off their jobs and 1,000 never returned.
Mr. Pataki also said he believed his signing of the death penalty would deter crime. "I think the absence of the death penalty costs the people of this state every day," he said. "It costs in terms of lost lives and you can't measure those lost lives in dollars and cents."
He also said that under his plan, anyone convicted of using a gun a crime would face a mandatory 10-year prison sentence. If someone was injured by the gun in the commission of a crime, the mandatory term would rise to 20 years.
He repeated his support for a state version of the new Federal ban on assault weapons, though Cuomo aides pointed out that as a legislator, Mr. Pataki voted this year against an amendment that would have provided for a similar ban. Mr. Pataki has offered various explanations for that vote, but most recently has said it was a partisan vote against a bill he said did not go far enough.
To dramatize his proposals, Mr. Pataki was joined at his announcement by Kevin and Carol McCauliff, whose son, Thomas, who had cerebral palsy, was stabbed to death last July 10 in Red Hook, N.Y.
The couple said the man charged in their son's death, Richard G. Moran, had a long criminal record and had been paroled by the state for a 1988 attempted robbery. "I believe that George Pataki as governor will help us provide answers to our questions and hopefully save another child and parents from what we are going through," she said.
The State Parole Division said that Mr. Moran was paroled in 1990 but that his full sentence had run out three weeks before the July slaying, so he was no longer on parole.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "In Their Own Words"
 
GOV. MARIO M. CUOMO
 SYRACUSE, Oct. 11 - Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a former minor league outfielder, helped break ground yesterday for a new stadium for the AAA Syracuse Chiefs with a telling metaphor about baseball's lessons for life - and politics.
 "Teaching you to lose is pretty good. Reminding you that you're not going to win every game, even if you deserve to. Because every once in a while the umpire will beat you, or the referee, or they'll call a pitch that's bad. It was clearly a ball, and you'll know it was a ball for the rest of your life. But you're out, out of there. You lose. You struck out, and you knew you shouldn't have. Well, you have to learn to live with that for the rest of your life because you're going to strike out a lot when you didn't deserve to, because the umpire isn't always perfect of vision."
 
Senator George E. Pataki
 In releasing his crime plan yesterday, State Senator George E. Pataki said he wanted longer sentences for violent criminals, even if it meant building more prison cells because when "push comes to shove, the first priority of any government has to be to provide for the personal safety of the people you represent.
 "Statistics can't tell the individual horror stories, but there is nobody in this room who doesn't understand that if your child is 15 or 20 minutes late from school, or if your wife or husband is a half-hour late from work you start to have a fear, a real worry, if they have become one of the far too many victims of violent crime in this city and state." (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ELECTION ISSUES; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); PRISONS AND PRISONERS; PROBATION AND PAROLE; TAXATION; GOVERNORS (US) PRISONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PAROLE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (89%); SENTENCING (89%); FELONIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); PROBATION (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CRIME PREVENTION (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); DEATHS (71%); INCOME TAX (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CEREBRAL PALSY (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN; PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



297 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO. (IP,N)

BYLINE: Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The International Paper Company said yesterday that its third-quarter profit rose 47 percent on rising demand for its containerboard and packaging products.
The nation's largest paper and forest products company posted third-quarter net income of $109 million, or 87 cents a share, which matched Wall Street's expectations, compared with profit of $73 million, or 59 cents a share, in the comparable period a year ago. 
 Revenue in the latest quarter increased 11.8 percent, to $3.8 billion.
"With expanding economies in the United States, Europe and the Pacific Rim, we are experiencing greater demand and higher prices in essentially all of our products," said John A. Georges, chairman of International Paper, based in Purchase, N.Y.
Mr. Georges said he expected "even stronger earnings growth" in the fourth quarter and in 1995.
International Paper said third-quarter sales and earnings rose at its consumer packaging and containerboard, or corrugated cardboard, units. The company's printing-papers unit was profitable for the first time in two years, led by a stronger European economy and a strong market for pulp.
In last year's third quarter, a charge of $25 million, or 20 cents a share, resulted in net income of $48 million, or 39 cents a share.

GRAPHIC: Table: "INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO. (IP,N)"

Qtr. to Sept 30	1994	1993	%Ch	Sales	3,800,000,000	3,400,000,000	+11.8	Net inc.	109,000,000	b48,000,000	+127	Sh. earn	.87	.39	 	Sh. out.	124,800,000	123,400,000	 	9m sls.	10,800,000,000	10,300,000,000	+4.9	Net inc.	268,000,000	b189,000,000	+41.8	Sh. earn	2.15	1.53	 	Sh. out.	124,600,000	123,100,000	 	
 
b-After a special charge of $25 million, or 20 cents a share, to revalue deferred tax balances in the quarter and 9 months.
Sales are net sales.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$77.50
Down 37.5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: IP (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (95%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (75%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (90%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (90%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); 

PERSON: JOHN A GEORGES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



298 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: The Streets Are Paved With Potholes;
In the Inner-City Economy, Flat-Tire Shops Fill a Void

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY 

 BODY:
For every espresso bar that percolates on the Upper West Side and every fancy boutique that blossoms in SoHo, there is a greasy storefront operation in one of New York City's poorer neighborhoods that solicits business with a simple sign announcing: "Flat Fix."
Just as cafes and boutiques have sprouted in Manhattan's disposable-income districts, these shops where drivers with a flat tire can stop for a quick, cheap patch or an inexpensive used tire have multiplied in areas where money is short, tires are old, roads are rough and immigrant entrepreneurs abound. They prosper in neighborhoods where service stations have been replaced by gas stations whose attendants only take cash through bulletproof glass. 
 On major avenues in the South Bronx, the shops are on almost every block. There, flats are mended curbside by people like Robert Rivera, 22, who sees his new shop as a step to owning a grocery, or Cheo Gonzales, 53, a mechanic from the Dominican Republic with a crescent of grease on his sweatshirt who knows just enough English to say: "Three dollars for plug. Five dollars for patch."
Tire shops are fixtures in the poorer neighborhoods of Brooklyn, in Jamaica, Queens, and in Harlem. "I've never seen one without two or three cars parked in front of it," said Eugene Rodriguez, an official with the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission who lives in East Harlem. "This is America. If there's a need, someone will create a business to fill it."
The business is a peephole into the economy of the poor. Entrepreneurs see an opportunity, and seize it by focusing on people with money to buy luxuries, in this case cars. But it is a stunted landscape.
The entrepreneurs are people like Ramon Santana, who started the B & B Tire Shop on Southern Boulevard in the Bronx 18 months ago by spending less than $5,000 to buy a used machine that removes tires from rims, an air compressor to inflate tires, some used tires and hand-operated jacks. He rents a narrow storefront for a few hundred dollars a month.
Customers at tire shops are often neighborhood residents and car service drivers. They typically have enough money to buy cars, but not enough to afford new tires that would stand up to the mean streets of the city.
Many of the lives in these neighborhoods are like the tires these men work on, endlessly patched together and plugged against the sharp edges. "They've got old cars and they're just trying to get through the day," Pedrito Garcia said about his customers at a shop on Third Avenue in the Bronx.
In this business, one pothole, strategically situated, can be a boon. "There used to be a big pothole out there," said Jimmy Rivera, 25, who was changing flats at a shop on Southern Boulevard in the Bronx recently. "Cars would hit it and you would hear a pop. Business was good then. But that was only one pothole. There are a million more out there."
The streets of the South Bronx can be a giant obstacle course, with drivers forced to weave between potholes and glass and debris and cars parked two and three deep, not to mention the men pushing grocery carts heaped with twisted scrap metal to be sold at recycling yards.
Meil Myers, a clerk in an auto parts store, said his Buick Century gets a flat at least once every three months. He was getting his latest one patched up on East Tremont Avenue in front of Rey Flat Fixed the other day. "The Bronx is terrible, man," he said. "I lost this one to a bottle on the street."
These daily assaults have spawned a growing trade in $5 tire patches and $12 used tires, bought from salesmen who cannibalize tires from junked cars and roam these neighborhoods selling them from the backs of trucks.
Tire shops in the South Bronx are dominated by immigrants, many from the Dominican Republic, who are eager to own their own businesses but limited by scant capital and little knowledge of English. It has become a family business for Juan Santos, who works 60 hours a week and earns about $200 at a Bronx tire shop near one his brother owns. "This is a good business for us because a lot of Dominicans don't speak English," he said.
Lloyd Ultan, a Bronx historian who teaches at Fairleigh Dickinson University, said many gas stations are no longer repairing cars, so the tire shops fill a void.
"People see an opportunity and they take advantage of it," he said.
In an economy of bodegas and car services and fruit stands, flat-fix shops are the bottom rung.
Robert and Pura Rivera are hoping to build a family enterprise at the corner of 167th Street and the Rev. James A. Polite Avenue in the Bronx. They rented a storefront for $1,000 a month and built a wall down the middle. Mr. Rivera opened Los Compadres Tire Shop on one side and his wife plans to open a candy store in the other space.
It is a rough neighborhood, but the couple hope that a new development of middle-class homes nearby will help them reach their ultimate goal: owning a grocery store. Tire-shop owners say business can fluctuate wildly, some days bringing in as much as $200 and other days almost nothing. But Mr. Rivera said he expects that within five months, he will recoup his $10,000 investment, which he saved from earlier earnings as a security guard and warehouse worker.
"There are always flats," he said.
But there's always competition, too. Another flat-fix shop is half a block away from Mr. Rivera's.
In the Bronx, with its web of highways, there are five flat-fix shops along nine blocks of Webster Avenue. Near the intersection of Third Avenue and East Tremont Avenue, there are three within a block and a half. Two, A.A.A. Flats Fixed and L.L.L. Flat Fixed, are barely 50 feet apart. A bumper crop of "Flat Fix" signs has sprung up on Jerome Avenue, Hunts Point Avenue and dozens of other avenues and side streets.
"It's like the Blockbuster Video of the tire business," said Jay Hansel, whose family-run tire business has been in the Bronx for 35 years. He says the flat-fix shops pose no competition to his business, which sells freshly minted Firestones and Goodyears for $45 to more than twice that. He'll fix a flat for $15.
There are no statistics on tire shops since no city or state agency specifically regulates their activities, but both tire-shop owners and community groups say the number of flat-fix operations have increased significantly. Community board leaders in the Bronx and Brooklyn said they have organized protests against tire shops in residential areas because they clutter the sidewalks with tires and fix cars in the street.
Tire-shop owners who have been in the business for a long time say there are too many competitors, and shops often reduce their already cut-rate prices to attract customers. In these areas, a 50-cent or $1 reduction in the cost of a patch can make a difference.
The quality of the work is uneven, customers say, but as Officer Rolando Martinez, who stopped his squad car at a tire shop on Third Avenue for air the other day, said, "They're cheap and they're fast."
And they fill a need in the local economy.
"If you're a professional and you get a flat tire, you say, 'Give me a new tire.' Over here you can't afford to do that," said Juan DelGado, sitting outside his Ponce Tire Shop. "It's a matter of money."
Then he looked at his dirty sneakers. "Let's say I'm going to throw these away," he said, wagging his feet. "Someone will pick these up because he needs them, but I don't need them."
Over the door of his shop hangs a tire painted with the words: "Flat Fix -- New Life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Flat-tire shops have sprouted in the South Bronx, where money is short and tires old. Juan Delgado at his shop on Hunts Point Avenue. The English on the right is a translation of the Spanish on the left. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: TIRES; GARAGES AND SERVICE STATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TIRE DEALERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); TIRES (89%); CITY LIFE (77%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TRENDS (64%); 

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



299 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Reveals Plan to End Illegal Vendors in Harlem

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced a plan yesterday to force illegal sidewalk vendors off 125th Street in Harlem starting on Monday, by creating a nearby open-air market for many of them and then moving ahead with police sweeps of unlicensed vendors who remain.
Under the plan, the city would grant special licenses to more than 400 illegal vendors and permit them to sell their wares at an "alternative market" in two vacant lots at Lenox Avenue and 116th and 117th streets. Any vendors who continue to operate illegally on 125th Street would be subjected to fines of $250 to $1,000, confiscation of their goods and possibly arrest. 
 Appearing with supportive merchants and elected officials at City Hall yesterday, Mr. Giuliani sought to portray the plan as an economic boon for the neighborhood and for vendors trying to establish legal businesses.
But the crackdown could lead to a confrontation. When Mayor David N. Dinkins announced a similar plan to open a market two years ago, dozens of vendors staged a raucous protest that disrupted business and traffic on 125th Street, and the administration backed down.
The appearance of illegal vendors on 125th Street and other commercial strips around the city has been a source of recurring complaints from established merchants. While the vendors say they are simply scratching out a living, the merchants say they steal customers, block the sidewalks and create litter, without having to pay the taxes established businesses do.
Mr. Giuliani said vendors had proliferated "out of control," eroding the quality of life along the commercial heart of Harlem, where as many as 1,000 vendors a day turn the street into a blocks-long bustling bazaar of perfumes, books, T-shirts, African artifacts and bootleg videos.
"There's a distinct need to bring this vendor situation under control," he said.
The Mayor's plan prompted mixed reactions on 125th Street yesterday. Michael Yoba, 38, a vendor from Harlem who was selling incense and handmade wooden necklaces near the Apollo Theater, was dismissive. He said the vendors offered an important service and would continue to do so despite the Mayor's warnings.
"I will be here on Monday," Mr. Yoba said. "There's too many people here to get rid of us all. There's too many mouths to feed."
Merchants, however, welcomed the crackdown, though some were skeptical that it would prove lasting. Sue Seo, a Korean immigrant who owns World Fashion, a clothing store nearby, said the city had promised to move the vendors before without success.
"They don't want to pay the tax," she said of the vendors, several of whom crowded the sidewalk in front of the store. "We have to pay the tax, and other business taxes and the rent, which isn't cheap. When they sell something for $1, $2, that's it. It's been real hard for us."
The control of illegal vendors, particularly on 125th Street, has stymied city officials for years.
The city now licenses two types of vendors, who are allowed to operate only on certain streets. The Department of Health licenses about 3,000 food vendors, while the Department of Consumer Affairs issues 853 licenses to general vendors selling everything else.
Officials estimated that there are as many as 10,000 general vendors operating without licenses, generating potential tax revenues as high as $300 million a year.
Under the Mayor's plan, worked out after several months of talks with elected officials and merchants in Harlem, the city will charge vendors $7 a day to operate in the lots on Lenox Avenue. The market will be operated by Malcolm Shabazz Masjid, a mosque on Lenox, which will return 30 percent of the revenue to the city.
The lots are slated for redevelopment and thus will be available for only a year, after which the city hopes to find a new location, possibly an indoor market like Mart 125 on 125th Street.
The city has already accepted 478 applications for the licenses, but that is far less than the number of vendors who congregate on 125th Street. The city will give preference to vendors from Harlem first and from the city second.
While officials cited the number of applicants as a sign of enthusiasm, it remains to be seen whether the market will attract the steady flow of customers of the busier thoroughfare eight blocks north.
Rudy Washington, the Commissioner of Business Services, whose office drafted the plan, said that the goal was to provide opportunities for illegal vendors to establish themselves as legitimate businesses. He said the city would hold orientations for vendors starting today.
Vendors who resist the move will face fines, seizures and possibly arrest. Lieut. Raymond Ferrari, a spokesman for the Police Department, said that officers from the 28th Precinct would begin clearing the streets at 12:01 A.M. on Monday.
"We'll take it step by step," the lieutenant said. "We'll confiscate materials, and we'll arrest individuals if need be. We don't expect any confrontation at this time."

GRAPHIC: Map of Harlem showing locations of new sites for vendors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: VENDORS, STREET TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RETAILERS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); CITIES (79%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (56%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



300 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Said to Waste Billions on Computers

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Congressional investigators said today that the Government wasted billions of dollars a year on computers and that the machines were often obsolete by the time they were installed for use by Federal employees.
"The process of acquiring Federal computer systems takes significantly longer than the process of developing new technology," said Senator William S. Cohen, Republican of Maine. And this "increases the likelihood that the technology will be obsolete once delivered," he added. 
 "It takes the Federal Government an average of almost four years to purchase computers, compared with 13 months in the private sector," he said. "Computer technology is developing rapidly, while the Government's acquisition process moves at a glacial pace."
Mr. Cohen is the ranking Republican on a Senate subcommittee that evaluates the management of Government agencies. The Government spends more than $25 billion a year on computers and related services, he said, and it has spent $200 billion on such equipment over the last decade.
But, he said, the Government is not getting its money's worth.
Henry L. Connors, a spokesman for the General Services Administration, which supervises the buying of goods and services for the Government, acknowledged that there were serious problems in many computer contracts. He said Roger W. Johnson, the administrator of the general services agency, had urged some departments to defer the purchase of computers so they could reassess their needs.
Senator Cohen, in a report on his investigation, said, "The failure of the Government to effectively buy needed computer equipment and services has wasted billions of dollars." The Government often buys computers that are "incompatible, obsolete and inappropriate for their intended tasks," he said.
"The current acquisition process is inflexible, bureaucratic, wasteful and overregulated," he said.
He offered these examples:
*The National Institutes of Health spent $800 million on several mainframe computers that its researchers refuse to use. Officials did not ask the researchers, who prefer to use personal computers, what they needed or wanted.
*The Agency for International Development, which runs foreign aid programs, maintains 45 different computer systems to track its property around the world and to manage its operations. But most of these systems cannot share data with one another, and the agency cannot account for thousands of cars and trucks at its offices around the world.
*The Agriculture Department is developing 17 large computer systems at a cost of $6.3 billion. But it has not coordinated development of these systems, so there is no guarantee that the computers can communicate with one another.
*The Internal Revenue Service is using outmoded technology to process tax returns. Antiquated computers have contributed to the I.R.S.'s failure to collect more than $70 billion in delinquent taxes from individuals and corporations.
Senator Cohen said the Federal Aviation Administration, the Social Security Administration, the National Weather Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service were also using old computers that severely hampered their ability to serve the public.
The Federal process for buying computers was established when the Government dominated the market, but that is no longer the case, Mr. Cohen said. Thirty years ago, he said, the Government bought more than 62 percent of the output of the United States' computer industry, but today it accounts for less than 4 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (GSA) COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY OUTFITTERS (57%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (90%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (GSA) GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (90%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); CONTRACTS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%); CIVIL AVIATION (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEN); CONNORS, HENRY L WILLIAM S COHEN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



301 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT;
Clinton Lauds His Policies, But Listeners Are Sparse

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 11

 BODY:
President Clinton took his autumn campaign for Democratic candidates on its first road test today, flying to a booming Ford assembly line to sit in a red Mustang, lift the hood, check the dipstick and tell auto workers that the Republican Party was determined to ruin their newly found prosperity.
It was a fiery performance, given to a much-smaller-than-advertised crowd and a smaller-than-advertised number of Democratic nominees willing to associate themselves with it. 
 On the first of several Midwest visits that he plans this month, Mr. Clinton repeatedly urged his audience to swallow its anger, however justified, at a Democratic-run Government and view the elections as a choice between the future and what he called a failed Republican past.
If the realization of his own agenda is admittedly incomplete, he declared, the Republican agenda, as outlined in a list of legislative goals that 300 Republican Congressional candidates signed last month, would return the nation to a decade when, he said, Federal spending was uncontrolled and the economy decayed.
"No one would want to go back to the days when we exported jobs, not products," he said. "No one would want us to go back to the days when the deficit was exploding and our economy was going downhill. That is exactly the decision that all of you are going to have to make on Nov. 8: whether we keep going in the right direction or go back to the 1980's trickle-down economics."
White House strategists say that speeches like this one will be common in the next four weeks and that the aim is to direct the public's fury with Washington more at Republicans than at Mr. Clinton and his Democratic allies.
Today the President tried to draw a distinct line between his policies and those of the Republicans, comparing a long list of Democratic legislative accomplishments -- a smaller Federal work force, a smaller deficit, cheaper college loans, more childhood immunizations -- with an equally long list of proposals that the Republicans have blocked in Congress.
He acknowledged that voters had "plenty of good reasons to be discontented."
"But remember the problems we found 20 months ago," he said. "Remember the progress we're making. Remember how many of them fought us every step of the way. And remember now what they want to do to take us back, when we have so much to do to keep going forward."
Today's event, however, made clear that Mr. Clinton still had far to go to surmount a lack of popularity with his own leadership. The White House had predicted that 4,000 or more auto workers would attend his speech, on the grounds of a huge assembly plant in nearby Dearborn, and the United Auto Workers, strongly Democratic, had won a morning off for factory workers so they could be present. But the crowd was far smaller -- less than a thousand -- and its response was lackluster.
So was the enthusiasm of the local candidates who the White House had said would be on hand.
Lynn Rivers, a Democrat trying to hold on to a Democratic seat being vacated by Representative William D. Ford, who is retiring, had been billed as likely to attend an afternoon gathering with Mr. Clinton and auto union leaders. But she demurred. "She had an editorial board meeting that we couldn't schedule around," said her press spokeswoman, Amy Pritchard.
Ditto for Bob Mitchell, a Democrat running for the House seat being left by a Democratic senatorial candidate, Representative Bob Carr. "We're in a tough race against a multimillionaire," a spokesman, Raul Alvarez, said in explaining Mr. Mitchell's absence. "We had to get him out there to raise money."
Then there is Mr. Carr, who trails his Republican rival, Spencer Abraham, by five percentage points in a race that the White House regards as crucial.
"This is not a campaign event for me," Mr. Carr told reporters before the President's speech. Later, for emphasis, he added: "This is not a Bob Carr campaign event. He's got his point of view; he tries to get it across. He can give whatever speech he wants to give."
Mr. Carr, for whom the President is scheduled to raise campaign money at a private event later this month, said that he had not invited Mr. Clinton to Detroit and that "he can go anywhere he wants." Asked how much the President's appearance might help his campaign, Mr. Carr responded: "It's incalculable. I have no idea."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) WHITE HOUSE (74%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) WHITE HOUSE (74%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; DEARBORN (MICH); UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RIVERS, LYNN; MITCHELL, BOB; CARR, BOB (REPR) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



302 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Giving Poland What It Needs

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is deciding whether to admit Poland and other countries in Eastern Europe to NATO, which is tantamount to committing U.S. troops to their defense. At a recent meeting of NATO ministers, Volker Ruhe of Germany began a drive to broaden membership in the alliance, setting off active discussion in Washington. There are excellent reasons such a commitment should not be made now.
Never mind that Eastern Europe's armies are still largely Soviet-trained and -equipped and not ready to join NATO. Enlarging NATO would oblige the U.S. to defend countries mainly threatened by internal disunity and their own regional rivalries, not Russian resurgence. Furthermore, expanding NATO now could jeopardize the future of Boris Yeltsin and fellow reformers in Russia, increasing Eastern European insecurity. Why run this risk when NATO membership does not meet Poland's most immediate need, which is political reassurance rather than a military alliance? 
 It is understandable why Western-oriented Poles wish to join NATO. NATO for them is Club West. The problem is that most Russians still regard NATO as a military alliance of the U.S., Germany and others against Russia. That may change as Western ties with Russia thicken and Russia's westernizers strengthen their tenuous grip on power. But for now Russia's extremists can use the bogeyman of NATO against Mr. Yeltsin and his allies. If NATO is too quick to swallow Poland, the extremists may swallow Mr. Yeltsin. Poland will be more secure if Russia stays on the road to reform and out of the hands of vengeful nationalists.
Nor is Poland in any immediate danger. If, despite Western efforts, Ukraine falls apart and Russia reverts to aggressive nationalism, it will be years before Russia can mobilize an army that could threaten Poland -- time enough for the U.S. to forge a firm military alliance. In the meantime there are ways to tie Poland more closely to the West without stoking Russian nationalism.
One is admission to the European Union, which would boost Poland's economy. Another is for NATO to make the most of the Partnership for Peace with Eastern Europe and Russia, moving beyond technical military cooperation and joint exercises to foster democratic patterns of civil-military cooperation. A third is to strengthen the web of cultural, economic and political contacts between Poland and the West.
Such reassurances will meet Poland's legitimate economic and political needs without destabilizing a reforming Russia.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); POLAND (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UKRAINE (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; POLAND; EAST EUROPE; EUROPE (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); POLAND (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UKRAINE (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: BILL FOSTER (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



303 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Now or Never for the N.A.A.C.P.

BYLINE: By Roger Wilkins; Roger Wilkins is professor of history at George Mason University.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In dismissing its executive director, the Rev. Ben Chavis, the N.A.A.C.P. put on a show that we watched with the titillation and embarrassment that we would feel from a neighbor's loud, messy divorce.
The board meets tomorrow to begin seeking a new executive director. But we now know enough about the scandal and debt that have dragged down the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to understand that a change of one individual at the top, although necessary, won't restore the association to what we need it to be. 
 Not all of the problems laid at Mr. Chavis's door began with him, but they all developed under the stewardship (if it can be called that) of the leaders of the board of directors. No leaders who permitted a $3 million or possibly $4 million deficit to develop should remain in office.
This interracial organization's complex, arcane politics have produced a board that has become increasingly more ingrown and provincial and has developed a reputation for generous spending on itself.
The outmoded governing structure, including an unwieldy 64-member board, has long needed overhaul. The board ought to dismiss its officers and declare a voluntary trusteeship that would modernize the governing structure, restore the N.A.A.C.P.'s credit and credibility and choose a new leader before relinquishing power.
The trustees might include such eminent citizens as Marian Wright Edelman, Leon A. Higginbotham Jr., Lani Guinier, Winifred Green, Colin L. Powell Jr., William L. Taylor, Angela Glover Blackwell, Harry Belafonte, Geoffrey Canada, David Hornbeck, Johnetta Cole, John Hope Franklin, Dorothy Height and William T. Coleman. Many of these people -- some of them educators, some of them white and none of them now board members -- have spent a good portion of their careers dealing with young people and the grass roots of black America, with which the N.A.A.C.P. has been out of touch.
The organization is not merely of concern to African-Americans. The N.A.A.C.P. has been -- and can be again -- a national treasure. The issues it should confront involve the quality of our national life and nature of our democracy.
All of its activities and capacities are urgently needed. Economic forces are tearing black America apart. The gaps in income and in life experience between the growing but still modest group of affluent African-Americans and their most vulnerable brothers and sisters is enormous.
While economists trumpeted September's 5.9 percent unemployment rate as "effective full employment," the black jobless rate remained in double digits, where it has been for two decades.
The Urban Institute reported recently that in 1993, 53 percent of black males in the prime working and family-forming years -- the ages of 25 to 34 -- were jobless or employed with wages too low to raise a family of four out of poverty.
The incredible burst of prison construction, the harshness of welfare reform proposals and the unwillingness to put black economic distress on the national agenda are all evidence of the strength and pervasiveness of racism. But the N.A.A.C.P. has almost disappeared from serious national dialogue about public policy.
We are experiencing a hardening of racial attitudes, a rising desperation among the black poor, a coarsening of the quality of urban life, a growing willingness to disregard the Bill of Rights when dealing with certain criminal defendants and an inability to debate our social ills honestly.
The nation needs the N.A.A.C.P. with its constructive traditions and its splendid nationwide network. The N.A.A.C.P. needs a renewal of the acute public-policy analyses for which it was once respected. But the organization is in terrible condition and may disappear. It cannot be reinvented, but it can be repaired. The repair job should lie at the top of the board's agenda. If the board is not up to the task, outsiders must put on the pressure needed to force it -- finally -- to do the right thing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (52%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (84%); DISMISSALS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SCANDALS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (64%); 

PERSON: WILKINS, ROGER MARIAN WRIGHT EDELMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



304 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Mostly Unchanged; Mark Has Surge in Europe

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar ended little changed against leading currencies yesterday as strength from rallies in American stock and bond markets failed to offset the effects of a surging German mark and the receding threat of a Persian Gulf conflict.
The Treasury bond market rallied yesterday as investors continued to buy on signs that the pace of economic growth is not inflationary. The buying began on Friday after a September jobs report that was weaker than expected. Stock prices also surged yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 55.51 points. 
 In recent months, currency traders have taken their cues from American financial markets, because rising asset prices tend to increase demand for dollars. But the rallies yesterday failed to provide much of a lift for the dollar.
"It was a nonevent," said Hubert Pedroli, manager of foreign exchange for Credit Suisse in New York. "It's surprising, given the excellent performance of stocks and bonds. Nothing seems to be able to lift the dollar."
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar slipped to 100.20 Japanese yen, from 100.29 yen on Monday. Trading was very thin in New York and Tokyo on Monday because of national holidays. The dollar also edged up to 1.5455 German marks, from 1.5447 on Monday.
Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at Paine Webber Inc., said the dollar was partly undermined by a flood of buy orders for marks.
"The Deutsche mark gained against all of the European currencies," he noted. "When it looked like Kohl wouldn't do well, the mark was heavily sold. As it becomes clearer he will win, there is profit taking."
The mark rose yesterday against most other currencies on growing sentiment that Chancellor Helmut Kohl's center-right coalition would prevail in Germany's federal elections on Sunday. Uncertainty over Mr. Kohl's prospects had driven the mark broadly lower in recent weeks.
Mr. Flanagan noted that speculators continued to take profits yesterday from the dollar's advance late last week, when the buildup of Iraqi forces on the Kuwait border fueled buying of dollars as a safe-haven currency.
"The gulf situation was one of the reasons that the dollar firmed up," said Christopher Low, senior economist at HSBC Securities in New York. "But at this point the market has decided that it's not going to develop into a war."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); GULF STATES (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); GULF STATES (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ELECTIONS CURRENCIES (94%); GERMAN MARK (91%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (51%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR) HELMUT KOHL (81%); STEPHEN FLANAGAN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



305 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Gold Prices Take a Tumble As Tensions in the Gulf Ease

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Gold prices sank to a seven-week low yesterday as tensions in the Persian Gulf eased, inflation fears waned and a Wall Street rally lured investors back to the stock market.
The movement of some Iraqi troops away from the Kuwaiti border sent crude oil prices lower, which put additional pressure on the inflation-sensitive precious metals. 
 "The one prop that had been holding the market up in recent sessions was the Iraq situation," said William O'Neill, senior futures strategist at Merrill Lynch. "Even though there is still some uncertainty, it appears that situation is starting to be defused."
On other commodity markets, coffee, livestock and grain futures rose. Despite those gains, the Commodity Research Bureau's index fell 0.05 point, to 227.88.
Gold for December delivery fell $3.20 on the Commodity Exchange in New York to $390.20 an ounce, the lowest daily settlement for that contract since Aug. 26; December silver fell 8.5 cents, to $5.33 an ounce.
Inflation worries drove gold up sharply last month but Friday's unemployment figures did not show signs of a runaway economy. Analysts expect Government reports on producer and consumer prices later this week to show only modest increases.
Mr. O'Neill also cited a twice-monthly report from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission showing heavy speculation that gold futures will rise. Such reports typically cause selloffs because investors fear the speculators will suddenly sell their holdings and send prices down even more sharply.
The inability of spot gold prices to reach $400 an ounce frustrated investors and contributed to yesterday's selloff, said Leonard Kaplan, vice president and chief gold dealer at the Imperial Bank in Los Angeles.
Meanwhile, crude oil futures fell sharply for the second straight day on the New York Mercantile Exchange, reflecting the cooling of Middle East concerns. Light sweet crude for November delivery fell 29 cents, to $17.70 a barrel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; GOLD FUTURES (95%); GOLD MARKETS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); METALS MARKETS (79%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (79%); SPOT MARKET (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM O'NEILL (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



306 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Issues Rise; Bill Rates Are Mixed

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose yesterday, with much of the activity coming early in the session on buying left over from Friday's rally, which was ignited by a weaker-than-expected employment number.
With no major economic reports due until tomorrow and Friday, when the Government reports on producer and consumer prices, the market managed to find some footing to mount what some market participants called an old-fashioned bear market rally. 
 "If the market did give a sigh of relief, it was on Friday," said Alan W. Kral, a portfolio manager at Trevor, Stewart, Burton & Jacobsen Inc., a billion-dollar investment management firm. "And with three days off to think, investors may have said: 'Gee, maybe I'm too short in the market. Maybe the inflation numbers this week won't be that bad.' "
The price of the 30-year bond, which had traded up as much as 24/32 , to yield 7.83 percent during the day, later retreated to clsoe up 14/32 , to 9527/32 , for a yield of 7.86 percent, down from 7.90 percent on Friday. The cash market was closed on Monday in observance of Columbus Day. Short-maturity bills also did well yesterday on fading expectations of an immediate increase in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve.
At yesterday's regular weekly bill auction, rates were mixed. The average rate for a three-month bill was unchanged at 4.92 percent, while the six-month slipped to 5.34 percent, from 5.38 percent last week.
The bond market was also bolstered yesterday by a decline in gold prices. Gold, always a disruptive force for bonds because many economists and investors -- not to mention Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve -- use it as a measure of inflation pressures, fell as much as $4 an ounce in trading on the Commodity Exchange of New York. Gold later settled down $3.10, to $387.60 an ounce, below $390 for the first time in six weeks.
As bond prices pushed higher in yesterday's session, investors with short positions were forced to run for cover a number of times to buy securities, either to protect profits or limit losses.
The market will next turn its attention to the report on producer prices, which will be released tomorrow and the report on consumer prices, which will be released Friday.
Mr. Kral of Trevor, Steward said investors were beginning to accept the idea that the producer and consumer price numbers would not be as bad as they were in August. "I think the market is concluding that if the Fed did not go on the employement report, and if the inflation numbers are all right, than there will be no rate hike until after the November elections," he said.
But Elliott Platt, vice president and director of economic research for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said continued caution is warranted for another three to six months, given that the economy is operating at a high level of resource utilization, and the economy's growth rate continues to exceed the growth rate of potential gross domestic product. Under these circumstances, he said, the Fed will remain poised to raise rates further, with the market inflation expectations remaining fairly high.
"We think its quite possible that during the next three to six months, the long bond yield could rise to an 8.25-8.50 percent range before plateauing," Mr. Elliott said, "while the Fed firms by 100 to 150 basis points." A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Following are the results of the Treasury's regular weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	Average Price	98.756	97.300	Discounted Rate	4.92%	5.34%	Coupon Yield	5.05%	5.57%	High Price	98.761	97.310	Discounted Rate	4.90%	5.32%	Coupon Yield	5.03%	5.54%	Low Price	98.756	97.300	Discounted Rate	4.92%	5.34%	Coupon Yield	5.05%	5.57%	Accepted at low price	95%	47%	Total applied for	$42,477,989	$45,416,140	Accepted	$13,008,331	$13,074,160	Noncompetitive	$1,552,996	$1,336,800	
 
Both issues are dated Oct. 13, 1994. The three-month bills mature on Jan. 12, 1995, and the six-month bills mature on April 13, 1995.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



307 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE AD CAMPAIGNS;
Race for Governor: An Independent's View

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:

CANDIDATE: B. Thomas Golisano.
 PRODUCER: Jay Inc. of Rochester. 
 VISUAL: Most of the ad shows Mr. Golisano, a wealthy businessman, sitting in a wood-paneled office lined with books. Over his shoulder an American flag. Occasionally, a graphic appears on screen that repeats a point Mr. Golisano has just made.
SCRIPT:
Announcer: Straight talk with the Independence Party candidate for governor, Tom Golisano.
Golisano: New York State is on a slow death spiral. You know it and I know it. Businesses are leaving our state and taking jobs with them. Forty percent of jobs lost in America over the last five years were lost here. When you listen to the politicians, they blame each other. Unfortunately, they're both right. Every election they promise you tax cuts and lower spending. After the election, it doesn't happen. It's the same old song. Both parties are obligated to the special interest groups that spend millions of dollars on their campaigns. I have a demonstrated record of managing positive results. When I'm Governor, the only people I will be obligated to are all of the people of New York State.
Announcer: Governor Golisano represents hope for New York. You have the vote, you have the power. That's the bottom line.
Accuracy: Mr. Golisano's portrait of a moribund state economy appears somewhat exaggerated -- for example, there is no evidence that 40 percent of the nation's lost jobs were lost in New York. Comparing the state's overall downturn to the country's downturn -- the period from June of 1989 to November of 1992 -- the state lost 31 percent of the nation's lost jobs. Over the last five years, the period cited by Mr. Golisano, the country has actually gained jobs, and the state has gained back 125,000 jobs since it hit bottom in November 1992.
Both major parties are accepting money from political action committees, as Mr. Golisano suggests. He is financing his multimillion-dollar campaign from his own bank account. Regarding his "demonstrated record of managing positive results," Mr. Golisano's company, Paychex Inc., has been very successful, repeatedly being named by Forbes magazine as one of the 200 best-managed companies in the country.
Scorecard: Mr. Golisano hopes to capture many of the disaffected voters who backed Ross Perot in 1992, and his one-on-one ad, with lines like "straight talk" and "you know it and I know it," is more than reminiscent of Mr. Perot's half-hour commercials. But his ad also reflects qualities that annoyed some voters about Mr. Perot, notably in its vagueness about how his proposals would be implemented and how he would work within a state political system dominated by the two major parties. The ad, with its emphasis on the state's economic problems, seems likely to appeal to some of the same anti-Cuomo voters that State Senator George E. Pataki is courting. DAVID FIRESTONE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PAYX (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561330 PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYER ORGANIZATIONS (63%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (63%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (63%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: PAYCHEX INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TELEVISION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAX LAW (68%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: GOLISANO, B THOMAS; FIRESTONE, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



308 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: THE RICH;
Business Owners Fear Chaos at the Hands of Mobs When Aristide Returns

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Up in the hills, where the air is sweet, the lawns are trimmed and life is lived in languor, they call him "the little monkey" and "the little jerk," and add that eight months of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide as President were enough to lay a road to civil war.
"Wait until the day of his arrival here and you will see scenes of people going crazy," said Olivier Nadal, a Haitian businessman of French descent whose family imports and exports food and operates in the shipping and banking industries. 
 "What scares us most is all the fanatics with Aristide," he added, referring to what he said was violence and disruption by workers and demonstrators during the time Father Aristide served as President in 1991. "They did all kinds of horrible things, and we still have that image in our heads. But Aristide could just stand back and say, 'It's not me.' "
With the clock ticking toward Father Aristide's return three years after his ouster in a military coup, American and Haitian business executives here look with unvarnished dread toward a future that they fear will bring mob violence, deeper class resentment and the destruction of their homes and businesses.
They say that during his seven months in power, Father Aristide signaled to Haitian workers that this was their moment in history. The result, they say, was widespread disruption by workers, scattered strikes and in some cases the destruction of factories.
Now the Haitian elite watches with despair and incomprehension as American soldiers passively observe looting but then mobilize to disarm the paramilitary groups that once provided the elite with a measure of safety. They trade stories of the hardships imposed by the international embargo and lament foreign policy decisions in Washington that have crushed their businesses and may now threaten their safety.
 
Military Government Also Wins Little Praise
 The military-dominated government wins no great praise. The friends and family of well-connected military figures -- many of whom are not members of the old-line elite -- profited immensely both in the legitimate marketplace and in the extravagant black market that flourished after the embargo took effect. But at least there was a sense of security, business leaders say.
"I hate to see him go," said Chris Pomajevich, an American businessman, referring to Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, the leader of the Haitian military junta who announced his resignation on Monday. "He was probably the one person in that group who should have stayed. He kept us out of civil war."
Throughout most of modern history, Haiti has been controlled by a tiny, wealthy, light-skinned elite that has dominated farming, business and commerce.
The elite is drawn from a handful of prominent families, many of French descent but increasingly joined by second-generation Haitians whose families migrated from Lebanon and Germany.
They speak French, not Creole. They send their children to exclusive schools and spend their vacations in mountain chalets here, in comfortable houses at the Haitian seashore or in Miami, where they shop for most of their clothing, jewelry and other luxury goods.
The elite has always relied on the military, which draws its troops and most of its officers from the lower classes, as a protector. In opposing Father Aristide's return, it argues that the tenets of capitalism, not the advantages of the few, are at stake.
Father Aristide counters that the elite has molded a society that crushes the vast majority of darker-skinned people.
But to his critics Father Aristide, who was elected by 80 percent of the popular vote in 1990, is not a force for democracy at all, but a dangerous ideologue bent upon revenge. They believe he is naive about international market forces and dogmatic and unrealistic in his hopes for change.
The Aristide Government's political message, they say, left the chronically poor with grand expectations that were always unrealistic but will be even harder to meet now, since a choking embargo has splintered the industrial base, drained financial reserves and given rise to a new class of merchants driven by greed and accustomed to operating outside the thin chains of law.
 
Aristide Blamed for End Of Workers' Docility
 "The rage of the crowd is unquestionable," said Fritz Kenol, 63, the head of Haiti's Mercedes and Fiat dealerships and a co-owner of a textile company. "But the man in the street, you can change his mind if you give him a job. Aristide's rage is ideological. Nothing will stop it."
The kindest words businessmen offer for the exiled President are that his short-lived Government was disorganized, directionless and lost. No effort was made to build the economic base, they say. Instead, energies were poured into revamping a society defined by immense gaps of wealth.
Regular Friday meetings with leaders of the Haitian Chamber of Commerce were canceled, said the group's president, M. Raymond Roy. No regular line of communication existed between the Government and business leaders. What meetings they did have are mostly described as confrontational, ugly and largely without resolution.
Several businessmen tell a story -- which others here believe to be pure fiction -- of a meeting that ended with a burning tire rolled into the room as a grotesque threat.
Most business executives here agree that Father Aristide's sometimes inflammatory sermons as a priest and his election to the presidency brought a profound and perhaps irreversible change in workers' attitudes. His rise to power, they say, destroyed a docility among workers and opened the way to hostile demands backed by the threat of ransacking and looting.
"The election was on Dec. 16, 1990," said Yves Gardere, 64, the owner of a roof and tile company. "When the workers came back on Jan. 4, I found them all on the floor, not working. They told me they wouldn't start working until I fired the director of the company."
When he refused, he recalled, the workers told him he should be happy to find his factory intact. The crisis was resolved, but the threat lingers, he said.
The same tensions invade life at home, where the wealthy live with teams of servants who cook their meals, do their laundry, tend their children and trim their gardens for wages that range from about $15 to $40 a month.
 
If Tables Are Turned, Will the Rich Be Servants?
 One businessman who spoke on condition that his name not be used said he had come home one night to find his daughter in tears. The maid, he said, had told the girl, "When Aristide comes back, your parents are going to come to my home and bathe my children and work for me." The maid was dismissed.
Now, as Father Aristide appears on television addressing the United Nations or speaking with journalists of his plans for peace and reconciliation, members of the business class say they fear another reality -- a dangerous social upheaval with the tacit approval of the returned President.
"What he offers his followers is simple," said Edward Gollon, 47, a commodities broker from Arkansas who has lived here for eight years. "He says to them, 'What you don't have, we will give you.' "
Haitian and American factory owners and business executives talked passionately this week about what they see as deep misunderstandings on Washington's part. They expressed contempt for American officials who ignored their appeals to stay out of Haiti.
The low wages here are adequate for most Haitian workers, they argue, because the cost of living is low. Doubling or tripling wages would knock Haiti out of a marketplace increasingly dominated by low-cost manufacturing in China, they insist, and create a new cycle of poverty, since workers would be deprived of jobs altogether.
 
Bitter Criticism Leveled At American Ambassador
 "The stupid Ambassador kept calling the military thugs and thieves and so on when they were the very people he needed to be talking to," said Mr. Pomajevich, 55, an ex-marine who grew up in Montana but now works here developing hotels and tourism. He was referring to the United States Ambassador, William L. Swing. "The Ambassador lost credibility in the eyes of the leaders. They felt he was too small to talk to."
From their hillside homes and well-tended country clubs in the cool air above the fume-choked city, members of the business class now say they sleep with pistols tucked beneath their pillows.
"I have three acres," said Mickey McLaney, an expatriate American who made a fortune in the casino business and now operates a hotel. "I go out on my grounds sometimes and shoot off a few pistol rounds just to remind them I have guns."
They intend to stay and fight. But they have watched with mounting horror in recent days as thousands of jumpy, camouflage-clad soldiers stood back as crowds looted warehouses and ransacked the headquarters of paramilitary groups.
"We hope that some day they are going to wake up and start controlling these people," Mr. Pomajevich said. "Now you have the police dead afraid of stopping anyone who is doing anything wrong."
Asked about human rights abuses by the military and its supporters, which have left more than 3,000 dead in the three years since the coup, many businessmen respond with tales of the Aristide Government's excesses. They point in particular to the killing of one of Father Aristide's enemies, Roger LaFontant, while he was in prison.
They say that under the rule of General Cedras and the head of the police, Lieut. Col. Michel Francois -- who fled last week to the Dominican Republic -- profitable franchises were passed out to the military's friends and family, further limiting their ability to run legitimate businesses, but at least there was order.
Several businessmen say President Clinton has been manipulated by the Congressional Black Caucus and other groups and has misunderstood a complex society at a difficult time, backing policies that will only further undercut Haiti's suffering economy.
"I made a lot of money in this country," said Ronald A. Georges, 37, a wholesaler of Lebanese descent who was born and reared here. "I have a nice house. I didn't steal. I didn't cheat. People in America have nice houses. But they talk about us as M.R.E.'s: the morally repugnant elite. I'm sick and tired of being called an M.R.E. I'm not saying we are Boy Scouts. But we made money by working."
They stay, and worry, and condemn foreign officials who they say never listen to their side of things. They see no natural leader here and describe the country as directionless, buffeted by forces on and off Haitian soil.
Sometimes, as the sun sets in brilliant streaks of crimson and orange over the sea, they gaze down upon the city and wonder when a surge of anger will rise above their tall stone walls and tear everything they have to pieces.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 13, 1994, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the mood of Haiti's elite misstated the percentage won by the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide in the 1990 presidential election there. It was 67 percent, not 80.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chris Pomajevich, an American living in Haiti, checked the ammunition for his shotgun and two handguns he said he would use to protect himself from mobs; M. Raymond Roy, president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Haiti, sat under a painting in his Port-au-Prince home. He owns another home as well. (Photographs by David Scull/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (79%); 

CITY: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (59%); 

COMPANY: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (59%); CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (59%); CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; ; HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (79%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (59%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STRIKES; LABOR; AMERICANS ABROAD; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RIOTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); FAMILY (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HISTORY (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); COUPS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLITICS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (60%); RESIGNATIONS (50%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1994



309 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: THE OVERVIEW;
U.S. OFFERS PLAN TO AVOID THREAT FROM IRAQ AGAIN

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
As President Saddam Hussein pulled back most of his troops from the border with Kuwait, the United States sought allied support today for a plan that would require Iraq to permanently withdraw its better-equipped Republican Guards but would allow 50,000 regular Army troops to remain in the area.
The proposal was less sweeping than an idea suggested on Monday by Defense Secretary William J. Perry: a huge demilitarized zone that would have excluded all tanks and heavy artillery and left Mr. Hussein with virtually no military control over the southern part of his country. 
 Despite Iraq's retreat, the United States pressed ahead with its dispatch of troops to the Persian Gulf. The Pentagon ordered 19,000 Marines to Kuwait early today, and said the buildup would continue while allied leaders discussed how to deter further Iraqi aggression.
In Kuwait today, Saudi Arabia and five other gulf nations pledged to Secretary of State Warren Christopher to repay the United States for much of its costs in defending Kuwait, and they backed the Administration's efforts to prevent Iraq from threatening Kuwait again. [Page A17.]
But in a sign of the fissures within the coalition against Iraq, France criticized the Clinton Administration, with the Defense Minister, Francois Leotard, suggesting that the buildup was "not unconnected with domestic politics."
And Russia, which signed a $17 billion economic agreement with Iraq last month and is eager to see the easing of stringent economic sanctions, got on a diplomatic track of its own, announcing in Moscow that Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev would go to Baghdad.
At the United Nations, Madeleine K. Albright, the chief United States delegate, began talks to persuade the Security Council to agree to an American formula to prevent Iraq from again threatening Kuwait.
The goal is to require Mr. Hussein to remove 20,000 Republican Guards who were recently moved south to nonthreatening positions, and to demand that he never send them south again, Administration officials said today. But the Iraqi leader would be allowed to keep in place the regular Army divisions that he has used during the last year to repress the Shiite residents, many of whom have been vocal in their opposition to the Government in Baghdad.
But in the face of allied opposition, the United States deleted from a draft resolution a specific threat to use force against Iraq if it violated the provisions, an Administration official said.
In an interview this week on the ABC News program "Nightline," Mr. Perry made a broader proposal: establishment of the territorial equivalent of the no-flight zone in Iraq, which bans all flights south of the 32d parallel.
"We are now conducting a no-fly zone south of the 32d parallel, which we do not allow Iraqi aircraft to fly," Mr. Perry said. "And we could conceivably extend that no-fly zone to include prohibition on certain kinds of ground equipment as well."
Today, however, White House and even some Pentagon officials described Mr. Perry's proposal as speculative.
These officials said one reason the Administration rejected the idea of a demilitarized zone was that it could encourage President Hussein to test the will of the United States by sending a tank or two into the zone and waiting to see whether they would be attacked.
"We wanted to come up with measures that would significantly reduce Iraq's ability to do this kind of thing again, not get into a situation where Saddam could have us on a string," one Pentagon official said.
A second reason, officials said, was that the demilitarized zone would create a military vacuum that could result in the dismemberment of the country. Such a move would prevent Mr. Hussein from suppressing potential Shiite uprisings and could also encourage Iran to attack.
The officials insisted that the less sweeping approach would accomplish the same goals as Mr. Perry's: speeding the return of American troops while preventing Mr. Hussein from terrorizing Kuwait.
As Ms. Albright opened her talks at the United Nations, the White House confirmed that Iraq was withdrawing its troops.
"There has been some movement, such as tanks being loaded up on trains and other things, to indicate they are in fact pulling out," the White House spokeswoman, Dee Dee Myers, said. "However, some units still appear to be in place so we're continuing to monitor it closely and there's been absolutely no change in our deployment."
President Clinton's swift military response has won broad public approval. A CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll published today showed that Americans supported his decision to send troops to protect Kuwait by more than 3-to-1.
But the movement of more than 70,000 Iraqi troops south over the past week put into stark relief the problem facing the United States and its allies in dealing with the unfinished business of the 1991 gulf war.
Despite the predictions of two Administrations, United Nations economic sanctions have not toppled President Hussein. The longer he remains, the greater the pressure to ease at least some sanctions.
Apparently eager to resume business dealings with Iraq, France today expressed opposition to the American plan to set up a military-free zone in the south. After a weekly cabinet meeting, Foreign Minister Alain Juppe told reporters, "France does not favor an exclusion zone."
Mr. Juppe nonetheless criticized Iraq for sending troops toward Kuwait.
After the meeting, Mr. Leotard, the Defense Minister, criticized the military buildup as politically motivated and argued that Iraq had not violated any United Nations resolutions by moving its troops south.
More than any other of the key members of the coalition that fought Iraq in 1991, France has been counting on an early lifting of the sanctions in order to resume what had been a lucrative business relationship with Baghdad.
Over the past year, the two sides have quietly resumed contacts at both government and private levels. In June a delegation from the French Management Council, which represents major corporations, visited Baghdad to discuss business opportunities once sanctions end.
In particular France's two main oil companies, Total and Elf-Aquitaine, which were active in Iraq before the gulf war, have reportedly signed protocols with Iraq with an eye to modernizing the oil industry and exploring for oil.
But most worrisome is Russia, which was Iraq's largest arms supplier before the 1990 invasion of Kuwait. Baghdad owes Moscow $7 billion.
Together with France and China, Russia has been lobbying the Security Council to consider setting a timetable for an easing of the sanctions if Iraq recognizes the sovereignty and borders of Kuwait and continues to cooperate in the destruction of its weapons arsenal.
Even as the Russian Foreign Ministry urged Iraq on Monday to halt its troop movements, the Iraqi Oil Minister, Safa Hadi Jawad Habubi, arrived in Moscow to prepare a joint oil-production accord for the moment sanctions are lifted.
The First Deputy Foreign Minister, Igor Ivanov, and Viktor Posuvalyuk, head of the ministry's Middle East department, are in Baghdad for talks, and a Foreign Ministry official in Moscow said today that Mr. Kozyrev would visit Iraq as early as Thursday "to help ease tension in the region and promote stability."
Senior Administration officials said that they expected Mr. Kozyrev to try to extract from a vague statement of recognition of Kuwaiti sovereignty, then declare the crisis resolved and call for an easing of sanctions.
"We're not buying it," one official said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: American soldiers setting up a Patriot missile battery somewhere in the Kuwaiti desert yesterday as the United States pressed ahead with its troop deployment in the Persian Gulf region. (Associated Press) (pg. A16)
 
Map of Iraq (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (91%); GULF STATES (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

COMPANY: ;UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; ; FRANCE; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (91%); GULF STATES (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

SUBJECT: BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MARINE CORPS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); PERRY, WILLIAM J (SEC) ; LEOTARD, FRANCOIS (MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KOZYREV, ANDREI V (MIN) ; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE (AMB) SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



310 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
Clinton Campaigning Again As the 'Symbol of Change'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
Behind the month of political barnstorming that President Clinton began this week lies a basic calculation by strategists in and out of the White House: unless Democrats do something, Republicans will walk away with the vast -- and growing -- bloc of voters who are dissatisfied with Washington and long for change.
It is a bloc that could wreck not only Democratic hopes for the midterm elections, never very robust, but also Mr. Clinton's re-election prospects two years later. And so the message that the President delivered at a political rally in Michigan on Tuesday, and will repeat through Nov. 8, is tailored for their ears: Democrats want a change for the better; Republicans want a change for the worse. 
 "Bill Clinton is the symbol of change," Tony Coelho, the Democratic Party strategist and former Congressman, said in an interview. "He came to town to change things. Now it's a choice of what you want for the future: a deficit reduction or an increase? Tax cuts for the wealthy or fair tax treatment? Medicare cuts? Veterans cuts?"
In Mr. Clinton's message, change for the worse is a return to the Reagan Administration's economic policies, the course advocated by the House Republican whip, Representative Newt Gingrich, and some 300 other Republicans who endorsed a political agenda they call the "Contract With America."
Change for the good, on the other hand, is a roster of successes that the White House says have been overlooked: anti-crime legislation, cuts in the deficit, low-interest student loans. Some Administration defeats, like the failure of health care legislation, are not mentioned.
The President is the chief Democratic messenger, White House officials say, but not the only one. Mr. Clinton delivers the attack on Republicans in high-minded, Presidential language; he leaves more partisan, crowd-pleasing assaults to surrogates like Vice President Al Gore and Cabinet members.
The Democratic National Committee, meanwhile, is spending $2 million to broadcast commercials containing the same theme in a number of battleground states. The advertisements, which close with the punch line "Why would you want to go back?" will be shown in Michigan, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Ohio, Maine and Minnesota -- all sites of tough Senate contests.
Republicans differ, of course, arguing that Mr. Clinton and his party are the problem with Washington, and not its solution. They have courted angry voters all summer long -- cynically, the President's advisers say -- by blocking Mr. Clinton's legislative agenda and then denouncing Democrats as ineffective leaders. Mr. Clinton is undeniably unpopular, and despite White House arguments to the contrary, even Democratic analysts see him as a drag on many Democratic candidates. But when a politician has nowhere to go but up, almost any effort lifts his standing. And many analysts believe a gifted orator like Mr. Clinton has the ability to help himself and his party.
"Midterm elections are rarely about the President," said William Schneider, a political analyst at the American Enterprise Institute. "But this election is different. I think Clinton is the central issue in this whole election, and his campaigning may make a difference."
The principal target, for Republicans and Democrats alike, is a group of voters who played a central role in Mr. Clinton's 1992 victory over George Bush: supporters of Ross Perot, who now account for about a sixth of the electorate. Mr. Perot is not on the ballot, and the loyalty of his backers is up for grabs.
The White House hopes to convince the Perot faction to support Democrats by addressing its chief worry about the Government: its appetite for money and power.
Mr. Clinton's standard campaign speech emphasizes his Administration's success in reducing the deficit and its commitment to cut the Federal work force. And a consistent theme is that Republicans would return the nation to the greedy 80's, when "trickle-down economics gave us an economy stuck in reverse," Mr. Clinton said on Tuesday.
"We're running against Reaganomics -- absolutely," Mr. Coelho said. "The Perot voters' biggest item is the deficit, and now we're able to make that an issue."
And not merely the deficit. In a memorandum delivered today to Democratic leaders, Mr. Clinton's pollster, Stan Greenberg, urged candidates to employ specific references to Mr. Reagan's policies. Those references, he said, were proven mind changers.
Among them are "trickle-down economics," which Mr. Greenberg said made the message "much more powerful," and catch phrases like "tax cuts for the wealthy" and "jobs going overseas."
The group of voters dissatisfied with the pace of change in Washington has grown since Mr. Perot's run for office, analysts say, to include many Republicans who voted for Mr. Clinton and some Democrats who did, and now appear to regret it.
The Democrats, in particular, began leaving the fold after Mr. Clinton failed to win passage of his health care legislation this summer and after he was widely criticized for indecision in addressing the Haitian refugee crisis, one pollster said in an interview last week.
Mr. Clinton does not mention health care legislation in his speech, in part because the blame for its defeat has been split by many between Republicans and the White House, and because his proposed changes were unpopular.
But he does accuse Republicans of blocking other popular legislation that he has promoted, including campaign finance reform and restrictions on lobbyists. And it is that message -- that he wants to take the nation forward over Republican obstruction -- that the White House hopes will lure voters back to the Democrats' side.
Indeed, Mr. Greenberg argues that Mr. Clinton's message can sharply shift the political balance. In his memo, he said the "go forward-don't go back" argument moved people to slightly favor a trailing Democrat in tests, and gave the Democrat a nine-percentage-point edge over a Republican opponent when it included specific criticism of Reagan's policies. The shift was strongest among Perot supporters and Democrats who are not leaning toward supporting their party's Congressional candidates, Mr. Greenberg wrote.
The political landscape is littered with messages that looked good in tests and failed on the road, and many analysts say the Democrats' position is bleak. Charles Cook, a prominent political handicapper, said this week that Democratic candidates for Congress might face the sort of tidal wave of public rejection that occurs once a generation, sweeping out incumbents who seemed safe only days before the vote. But the Democrats believe that history -- Republican history -- is on their side.
"In '82, Ronald Reagan made a very significant national political speech around Oct. 15 in which he made a strong pitch to 'stay the course,' and provided a theme for his colleagues to run by," said Kirk O'Donnell, a Washington lawyer who is a political adviser to influential Democrats. "And in a day-by-day review of voter demographics in the '82 election, it was apparent that that speech helped slow down a steep decline in Republican support."
In fact, Mr. O'Donnell said, Mr. Reagan's stumping cost the Democrats at least 10 House seats that they otherwise would have gained.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Democrats are saying that unless their party does something soon, Republicans this fall will walk away with the vast bloc of voters that detests Washington and wants a change. With that in mind, President Clinton is taking a new message to voters: Democrats wants a change for the better, Republicans for the worse. He gave a thumbs-up sign to Michigan auto workers at a Dearborn rally on Tuesday. (Associated Press) (pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); TAX LAW (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); MEDICARE (66%); CRIMINAL LAW (64%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); COELHO, TONY; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



311 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
WEYERHAEUSER CO. (WY,N)

BYLINE: Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The Weyerhaeuser Company said yesterday that its third-quarter earnings rose 67 percent as pulp, paper and packaging markets recovered and strong sales continued in its wood-products business.
"The company continues to realize steady improvement in earnings as the momentum in the recovering pulp, paper and packaging markets continues," said John W. Creighton Jr., president of Weyerhaeuser. "At the same time, our timberlands and wood-products performance remains strong in spite of increasing interest rates." 
 Weyerhaeuser, which is based in Tacoma, Wash., and is the nation's third-largest forest products company, reported net income of $144.4 million, or 71 cents a share, for the quarter ended Sept. 25, compared with income from operations of $86.5 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier. The earnings fell below Wall Street's expectations of 77 cents a share.
In last year's third quarter, the company took a charge of $19.9 million, or 10 cents a share, related to tax changes, reducing net income to $66.6 million, or 32 cents.
Sales in its most recent quarter rose 20 percent, to $2.7 billion. (Bloomberg Business News)

GRAPHIC: Table: WEYERHAEUSER CO. (WY,N) 

Qtr. to Sept 25	1994	1993	%Ch	Sales	2,680,663,000	2,224,928,000	+20.5	Net inc.	144,406,000	b66,618,000	+116	Sh. earn	.71	.32		9m sls.	7,664,863,000	6,953,449,000	+10.2	Net inc.	399,826,000	b477,617,000	-16.3	Sh. earn	1.95	2.33		Sh. out.	205,522,000	204,807,000	 	
 
b-Included a third-quarter charge of 10 cents a share reflecting the new 1993 Federal corporate tax rate in the company's deferred and current tax accounts, in the quarter and 9 months. The 9 months also included $44 million, or 22 cents a share, from the sale of the company's infant-diaper business; $36 million, or 18 cents a share, from the sale of GNA Corp., and $52 million, or 25 cents a share, from the repayment of debt.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$41.50
Down $1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: WY (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322130 PAPERBOARD MILLS (97%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (97%); NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS113310 LOGGING (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (55%); 

CITY: TACOMA, WA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: WEYERHAEUSER CO WEYERHAEUSER CO (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEYERHAEUSER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); WASHINGTON, USA (55%); TACOMA, WA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (90%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (77%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: JOHN W CREIGHTON JR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



312 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

A New Alliance in Hollywood
Three of Hollywood's biggest power brokers plan a new studio. Steven Spielberg, David Geffen and Jeffrey Katzenberg, the former Walt Disney executive, announced plans for a new entertainment company whose creation could involve reclaiming ownership of Universal Pictures. [Page A1.] Executives of MCA, which owns Universal, are seeking to resolve an increasingly fractious relationship with Matsushita, its parent. [D20.]
 
Companies
Prudential Securities will be compelled to acknowledge wrongdoing to avoid indictment on fraud charges stemming from the sale of limited partnerships, people involved in the case say. [D1.] 
 Levi Strauss will allow a union to sign up thousands of workers as long as the union helps the company revamp production. [D1.]
U.S. Steel will join with Nucor to develop a cheaper, more environmentally friendly method of producing steel. [D1.]
Bankers Trust responded to a lawsuit by Gibson Greetings over investments in derivatives. [D4.]
Federated Department Stores announced a lineup of executives who will lead an expanded Macy's East operation. [D4.]
Shares of Intuit climbed for a second day on speculation that the company might be acquired by Microsoft. [D4.]
Leslie Fay will discontinue its money-losing Theo Miles line. [D4.]
CBS reported a 51 percent drop in third-quarter earnings. [D7.]
The teamsters' union sued a Disney World hotel, saying that its "English only" policies discriminated against its workers. [A23]
 
International
A labor accord to the North American Free Trade Agreement got its first test as the United States refused to pursue complaints that Mexico had failed to enforce union-organizing rights. [D1.]
Mitsubishi Bank plans to bail out Nippon Trust by buying nearly $2 billion of shares of the bank. [D2.]
The ruble recovered a bit as President Boris N. Yeltsin sought to calm Russians after an embarrassing run on the currency. [A3.]
 
Markets
What caused interest rates to stop falling? The turnaround in the last 12 months represents, in part, rising demand for capital at a time most large economies have emerged from recession. It also reflects speculation on interest rates. The higher rates have meant slower growth and pain for bond investors. [D1.]
Stocks were little changed as profit taking took its toll after three days of gains. The Dow slipped 1.68 points. [D8.]
Treasury prices declined slightly. Investors were reluctant to buy ahead of the Government's report on producer prices. [D8.]
The dollar fell below 100 yen to the dollar on fears that some big Japanese investors plan to cash out of American securities. [D19.]
Wheat prices tumbled after a forecast for the American crop surpassed expectations. Crude oil prices continued to fall. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
The debate on education, some economists say, should turn to thinking about education as a market in which producers are driven by incentives. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
An ambitious stock offering in Japan is turning into a disaster for the Government. Many investors have decided to pass up an opportunity to buy shares in Japan Tobacco. Market Place. [D8.]
A revival of "Damn Yankees" shows what the relationship between sports and advertising was like in the 1950's, complete with cigarette ads and corny slogans. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (58%); M (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); INTU (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (57%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (58%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (58%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (57%); MACY'S INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); INTUIT INC (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PRODUCER PRICES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECESSION (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); US DOLLAR (71%); INDICTMENTS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); BOND MARKETS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (63%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (73%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (73%); DAVID GEFFEN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



313 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Yeltsin Moves Quickly to Calm Fears Over the Ruble

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 12

 BODY:
President Boris N. Yeltsin moved quickly today to try to calm Russians and restore confidence in his Government after Tuesday's extraordinary and embarrassing run on the ruble, which lost more than 25 percent of its value against the dollar.
While the financial elements to stop the plunge were put into place Tuesday night -- helping the ruble to recover today to 3,736 against the dollar from Tuesday's close of 3,926 -- Mr. Yeltsin also moved politically. He dismissed the acting Finance Minister, Sergei Dubinin, who had little responsiblity for the run on the ruble; called the Prime Minister, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, home from vacation, and asked Parliament to dismiss the head of the central bank, Viktor V. Gerashchenko, a long-time target of market-oriented reformers.
Parliament postponed any vote on the fate of Mr. Gerashchenko, who was silent on the ruble's collapse today, but lawmakers called for a vote of confidence in the Government for Oct. 21.
In time-honored Moscow fashion, Mr. Yeltsin also ascribed what is being called "Black Tuesday" to sabotage by unidentified enemies and speculators, and he ordered his National Security Council to work with the secret police to investigate. One Government official even called for an "unmasking trial," the phrase used for the show trials that defined the purges of the Stalin era.
But rather than the work of some secret conspiracy, Tuesday's events seemed to result from a confluence of factors, and traders who saw an opportunity took it. Western diplomats, brokers and business executives said today that a correction in the value of the ruble had been inevitable, if badly controlled. They said the Russian inflation rate remained tolerable and that the panic would not have a lasting effect on investor confidence.
"I hope there won't be any re-evaluations on the part of investors," said Maksim Boyko, director of the Russian Privatization Center. "But this whole episode underscores the fragility of the stabilization achieved in 1994. The Central Bank should share at least part of the blame."
Reasons cited to help explain Tuesday's panic included currency speculation, inflationary expectations and a failure of the Government and central bank to act quickly enough to control the market.
After this summer's injection of credits into agriculture and industry, the Government and the central bank have made a coordinated effort to allow the ruble to adjust to higher inflation by slipping gradually from the 2,000 or so to the dollar of early this summer to about 3,000 or even 3,500 to the dollar, the rate at which the 1995 budget is figured.
Although Russians have enjoyed a relatively low inflation rate since August 1993, when inflation stood at 26 percent a month, the monthly rate has increased from about 4 percent in June to about 8 percent in September. (The monthly rate in the United States in August was three-tenths of a percent, about average for recent months.)
Since there is normally a three-month lag here between the release of new credits and an increase in the inflation rate, the estimated 7 trillion rubles of credits issued in July and August, and perhaps 3 trillion more issued in September, will continue to keep inflation running higher. In response to this expectation of continuing price increases, traders have been buying dollars, which has pushed the ruble down for three weeks now.
During the last three months, the Russian Central Bank has spent $2 billion of its reserves of Western currency to support and stabilize the ruble. Wary of spending too much, the bank announced last month that it would lessen its support of the ruble in the foreign exchange markets. On Monday and Tuesday, the bank bought few rubles, doing so only late on Tuesday to prevent the ruble from crashing past the 4,000 to the dollar.
With Mr. Chernomyrdin on vacation, the Government seemed paralyzed and said nothing. Only after trading ended on Tuesday -- followed by a reportedly stormy Government meeting -- did Mr. Gerashchenko of the central bank announce a sharp rise in short-term interest rates to make ruble holdings more attractive and declare that the bank would support the ruble at the start of trading today.
But with outstanding credits, unpaid salaries and a significant budget deficit to finance, economists and diplomats say, the Government had wanted a weaker ruble so that it would take fewer dollars to pay for it all. A weaker ruble also helps protect Russia's domestic industry by making imports more expensive, a demand that is frequently made by farm and industrial lobbies.
During a parliamentary debate today, Mr. Dubinin said that the panic was directly linked to recent subsidies to agriculture and defense industries. "Now we have to decide what we want -- either stabilization of finances with lower inflation or further subsidies to bankrupt enterprises," he said. If the latter, "the ruble will continue to fall."
Adding to the panic on Tuesday, bankers said, was a successful effort by a group of commercial banks, hurting from bad loans made when inflation was much higher, to manipulate the rules of the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange, or Micex, where the ruble is traded.
As one board member explained it, banks have been allowed to buy dollars and put up the rubles to cover their purchase two days later, a common international practice. But numerous banks, he said, bought dollars and then delayed payment up to four days, waiting until Tuesday night, when the ruble was at its lowest, to cover their purchases.
Now the exchange will return to the old method of requiring money to be deposited before any trade is approved, he said, to discourage currency speculation.
Jannik Lindbaek, executive vice president of the International Finance Corporation, a part of the World Bank, said today that the last few days would not change the fundamental attractiveness of Russia as a place for foreign investment.
"Interest in investing here is definitely a new trend, and it's not a blip on the radar screen," Mr. Lindbaek said. "In this kind of environment, one should expect the currency market to be volatile. If we should go to hyperinflation, that would be different. But the stabilization policy of the Government is correct and necessary, and it is in fact taking hold."
Average Russians, who saw prices for imported goods and even some domestic items zoom up during the course of a day, offered opinions ranging from imminent ruin to bemused shrugs.
Olga, a world-weary 24-year-old who works at the Voyazh kiosk in central Moscow, where a pack of Marlboros went from 1,900 rubles to 2,500 rubles and a Snickers bar from 1,000 rubles to 1,500 in hours, said: "Of course we've hiked our prices. But no one's complaining except the grannies."
Leonid Abalkin, a well-known reform economist of the Gorbachev period, said people trusted the dollar more than their leaders. "In contrast to the Russian Government," he said, "the U.S. dollar will not let you down or deceive you."
Irina, who sells soaps and cosmetics at the Kabul department store nearby, said they had nearly doubled prices overnight, and there were fewer customers than usual. "We understand what has happened better than anyone," she said. "We understand it with our pockets."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Russian woman kept a calculator handy yesterday as she bartered for dollars on a Moscow street. The ruble, the Russian currency, stabilized somewhat yesterday after it collapsed sharply on Tuesday. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "The Falling Ruble" shows close of ruble against U.S. dollar from 1/1/94 to 10/12/94 (Sources: CS First Boston; Bloomberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (52%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS CURRENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); POLITICS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); DISMISSALS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); DUBININ, SERGEI (MIN); CHERNOMYRDIN, VIKTOR S (PRIME MIN); GERASCHENKO, VIKTOR V ; ERLANGER, STEVEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



314 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Briefs;
Democrats' New Ads Attack G.O.P. 'Contract'

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
The Democratic National Committee today announced a $2 million advertising campaign that portrays Republican candidates as intent on tax cuts for the rich, huge new spending for the Pentagon and "devastating cuts in Medicare."
The campaign reflects an effort by Democrats to turn the "contract with America," a list of promises embraced by Republican candidates for Congress this month, into a liability in the final weeks of the fall election campaign. "A trillion dollars in promises," an announcer in the advertisements declares. "How will they make up the spending gap? Explode the deficit again? Make devastating cuts in Medicare?" 
 The advertisements, one of which is specifically aimed at older Americans, argue that the Republicans are determined to resurrect the economic and fiscal policies of the Reagan years. "Why would we go back to that?" the commercials ask.
Republicans contended that Democrats were twisting the truth because they feared a Republican surge in November that could cost Democrats control of the Senate and perhaps even the House.
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the chairman of the House Republican Conference, said, "The White House and Clinton Democrats in Congress have resorted to what's known in politics as the big lie to try to salvage some House and Senate seats in this volatile election year."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (93%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; MEDICARE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGED; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TAXATION; INCOME TAX MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



315 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: A Painful Year of Higher Rates

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
A year after interest rates stopped falling, Wall Street still is not sure what caused the party to end. But the hangover endures, in the form of slower economic growth and intense pain for many investors, who have seen the bond market suffer bigger losses than in any previous 12-month period.
Since Oct. 15, 1993, when the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds sank to a low of 5.78 percent, investors in Treasury securities have sustained hundreds of billions of dollars in capital losses. The 30-year bond yield last week neared 8 percent, and even after a small rally this week, is at 7.89 percent. 
 Over all, investors in Treasury bonds and notes, ranging from the very safe one-year note to the 30-year bond, have lost about 7.2 percent of their money since last Oct. 15, according to an index compiled by Ryan Labs, a money management firm in New York. They have gotten the promised interest payments, of course, but the price declines have swamped them. Prior to this, Ryan says, the biggest annual decline for Treasuries was a loss of 6.1 percent, in the 12 months ended May 31, 1959.
Moreover, the pain has been worldwide, with interest rates rising -- and bond markets suffering losses -- in every major industrialized country.
While the party was going on, the fall in interest rates hugely benefited borrowers -- municipalities, corporations and homeowners -- who were able to refinance their debts and save money. Those savings, which could be spent on other things, provided a big stimulus to the economy late last year. Now that stimulus is gone, a factor that has helped to slow growth.
What ended the party? To some extent, the turnaround in interest rates throughout the world represents the rising demand for capital at a time when no major economy is in recession. "The surge in interest rates was global, and it coincided with an upturn in the global economy," said Edward E. Yardeni, the chief economist of C. J. Lawrence.
The strong economies have also driven up some commodity prices, helping to raise inflationary concerns. The Goldman, Sachs index of industrial metal prices is up 36 percent so far this year, reflecting strong demand for aluminum and copper.
Still, inflation is low, at 2 to 4 percent a year, depending on which index is used. "The last time we had bond market returns this bad, inflation was in the teens," said James A. Bianco, the director of research at the Arbor Trading Group, a brokerage firm in Barrington, Ill. "There must be something else."
That something, he and others say, was the rampant speculation on lower interest rates that had crept into the markets in numerous ways. Much has been written about losses from derivatives, but most of those losses actually involved bets, using derivatives, on lower interest rates. The plethora of new financial instruments has made it easy to place highly leveraged bets on interest rates, and a lot of people could not resist making the bets as rates fell. Big profits from making the bets in 1992 and 1993 turned into big losses this year.
It is not easy to measure just how much speculation there was on interest rates. But Charles I. Clough Jr., the chief equity strategist at Merrill Lynch, said the available data indicate that a lot of the speculative activity, betting either on lower interest rates or at least against a sharp further rise in rates, is continuing. And he added that the high level of speculation produced the need for many investors to sell bonds quickly earlier this year, when the rise in interest rates accelerated. "Bonds didn't just go down," he said. "They melted down." Because the speculation was international, the selling hit many markets.
The Federal Reserve, which began pushing up short-term rates in February, has played a role in raising interest rates. And the Fed has not yet raised rates on short-term borrowings even close to those on longer-term debt. Even now, the yield on one-year Treasuries is 6.02 percent, well below the 6.95 percent available on three-year notes. That has made it possible for many to keep speculating by borrowing money short term and investing it in longer bonds, hoping to earn the spread between the two rates if short-term rates do not rise quickly.
Bonds are clearly a better buy now, with rates up sharply, than they were a year ago. But for bonds to rally, buying may have to appear from some unconventional source. In the early 1980's, when interest rates zoomed into the double digits, that buying came from stock market investors who found the yields irresistible even though bond investors were thoroughly discouraged.
Many bond investors have been discouraged this year. From the end of 1990 through last October, $57 billion poured into mutual funds that invest in either Government bonds or their closely related cousins, mortgage-backed securities. But in the 10 months after that, through August, $30 billion, or more than half of the inflow, was taken out, according to figures from the Investment Company Institute, a trade group.
That has forced mutual funds to sell bonds regularly. And most fund managers still have little in the way of cash reserves, forcing them to sell more bonds as investors bail out.
Mr. Bianco points out that until late 1993, banks had been big buyers of Treasury bonds, but that since then they have not added new positions on a net basis. In part, that may be because new accounting rules force the banks to report losses on many bonds when market prices decline. Previously, it was much easier to keep such setbacks off the income statement.
When will new buyers appear for bonds? Perhaps that will not happen until stock market investors again become disenchanted with their own market, something that has not begun to happen despite a market that has made little progress this year. In 1987, the sharp falloff in bond prices was halted only when the Fed eased, and money poured into the bond market, after the stock market crashed.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks yields on 30-year and 3-year Treasury bonds since October 1993. (Source: Datastream)
 
Table: "A Bad Year for Bonds" shows total return on Treasury securites and on 10-year government bonds from Oct. 15, 1993 to yesterday. (Sources: Ryan Labs [U.S. returns], Bloomberg Financial Services, [foreign yields returns])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; RYAN LABS GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; RYAN LABS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); RECESSION (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BASE METALS MARKETS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



316 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Bond Prices Down a Bit as Buying Lags

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Bond prices sagged a bit yesterday. Investors and dealers found little reason to buy ahead of today's report on producer prices.
Speculation that the September Producer Price Index may provide a mixed message for the market discouraged buying yesterday, after gains in two consecutive sessions. The market consensus is that the index will come in flat or up just one-tenth of 1 percent over all, with the core rate rising four-tenths of 1 percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg Business News said they expect the overall Producer Price Index number to be unchanged in September, compared with a six-tenths of 1 percent gain for August. 
 "If it's in line with the Street concensus, not much will happen," said Stephen D. Slifer, chief financial market economist for Lehman Brothers.
But a gain of four-tenths of 1 percent in the core rate would not be so friendly for the market, he added. The market may sell off a bit on a number within expecations, "just because the market is in a negative frame of mind," he said.
"I think the issue here is what happens with the Fed, and not so much what happens tomorrow and Friday," Mr. Slifer said. "Is there a set of cicumstances that will push the Fed into action before the Nov. 15 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee?"
The price of the 30-year bond fell 11/32 yesterday, to 9616/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 7.89 percent, from 7.86 percent on Tuesday.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta released a report yesterday on business activity in September. Its national production index showed an unexpected dip to 18.1 from a revised 28.3 in August. The report said prices paid by producers for raw materials were little changed in September at 40.5, compared with 41.0, and the prices received index of finished goods fell sharply to 6.9 from 14.5. Sharp declines were also registered in production, new orders and shipments.
Although the bond market has reacted to lesser data in the past, the Atlanta Fed report is not typically a significiant market mover. And while the report has a national index, it is based on what manufacturers in the Southeast feel about conditions nationwide in their industries.
In the taxable bond market, two global issues dominated yesterday. The first, a $1.96 billion bond offering by the County of Los Angeles to finance the county's liability for employee retirement benefits, was priced through Lehman Brothers.
Of the total, $1.11 billion of the issue consisted of bonds priced to yield from 6.80 percent for an issue due in 1996 to 8.62 percent for one due in 2006.
Underwriters said it was the largest taxable offering ever in the municipal market. The remainder of the financing, rated A by both Moody's Investors Service Inc. and the Standard & Poor's Corporation, also included $600 million of variable- rate securities and $248.4 million in zero-coupon bonds.
The second deal, a $500 million financing by Deere & Company was priced through underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs & Company. The two-part sale, backed by farm equipment loans, included $480 million of senior notes with an average life of 1.2 years priced to yield 12.5 basis points more than the one-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which yesterday was about 5.125 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent. Dealers said interest on the issue, rated triple-A by Moody's, S.& P., Duff & Phelps and Fitch, will not exceed 18 percent.
The remaining bonds, which are subordinated securities, have an average life of 3.2 years and are expected to be priced to yield between 30 and 40 basis points more than the one-month Libor.
The following are the results of yesterday's auction of 66-day cash management bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 99.087
Discounted Rate . . . 4.98%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.10%
High Price . . . 99.091
Discounted Rate . . . 4.96%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.07%
Low Price . . . 99.087
Discounted Rate . . . 4.98%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.10%
Accepted at low price . . . 86%
Total applied for . . . $49,580,000
Accepted . . . $15,040,000
Noncompetitive . . . $0
 
The 66-day cash management bills mature Dec. 22, 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (81%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX PRODUCER PRICES (94%); BOND MARKETS (92%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); BOND ISSUES (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); NEW ORDERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (66%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT STEPHEN D SLIFER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



317 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Legislators Approve Swiss Bank Move

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Oct. 12

 BODY:
Mixing political aspirations with hopes for turning around the economy, the General Assembly approved a package of financial incentives tonight intended to lure the Swiss Bank Corporation to Connecticut.
While some lawmakers said they had reservations about becoming embroiled in a bidding war with neighboring states and giving away too much in tax breaks, only one legislator voted against the deal. 
 The rest of the 187-member General Assembly said the financial benefits for the state were worth it.
"The key to this is the state is not writing a check to anybody," said Senator William H. Nickerson, Republican of Greenwich. "It's a terrific deal for every taxpayer."
The General Assembly was called into its third special session of the year by Governor Lowell P. Weicker Jr., who deemed the financial deal with Swiss Bank an emergency needing immediate action.
The legislature gave its approval shortly after 8 P.M., after a day spent wrangling over 14 judicial nominations from Governor Weicker.
The nominations eventually were scuttled The General Assembly is expected to return to the Capitol after the elections to take up the nominations in hopes they will be less prone to political maneuverings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SWISS BANK CORP SWISS BANK CORP (94%); GENERAL ASSEMBLY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWISS BANK CORP GENERAL ASSEMBLY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); APPROVALS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RELOCATIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: LOWELL P WEICKER JR (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



318 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: A Generally Healthy America Emerges in a Census Report

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
As a people, Americans are living longer, smoking less, spending more money on books, newspapers and magazines, are less likely to get a divorce or own a gun and more likely to belong to a church. They are even eating more broccoli.
These are some of the highlights of the 1994 Statistical Abstract of the United States, a potpourri of facts compiled by the Census Bureau. The report, published annually since 1878, provides a snapshot of changes in American life over 20 or 30 years or more. 
 Coming in a political season in which candidates of both the left and the right are focusing on the United States' shortcomings, the abstract is a portrait of a nation that is remarkably healthy.
"You look around and look through the abstract and see what we own, what we've purchased, the size of our houses -- on those issues there is clear and steady progress," said Ben J. Wattenberg, whose new book, "The Good News Is the Bad News Is Wrong," asserts that the nation is in relatively good shape. "The idea that everything stinks, and the country is stagnant or in decline, is mostly bunk."
While many of the thousands of tables in the report present an overall rosy picture of the United States, others depict significant problems and a marked polarization between the comfortable lives of most people and the despair of those at the bottom.
Rates of violent crimes have remained high, and the number of children born out of wedlock has increased by more than 200 percent from 1970 to 1991. Moreover, in what some economists and politicians say accounts in part for the sullen mood of the electorate in a time of relative peace and prosperity, average hourly earnings and average weekly earnings as measured in constant 1982 dollars declined from 1980 to 1993.
But on some of the most basic measures of well-being, the news is good.
The report indicates that Americans born in 1992 will have an average life expectancy of 75.7 years, up from 70.8 years for those born in 1970. And infant mortality dropped to 8.5 per 1,000 live births in 1992, from 20 per 1,000 live births in 1970.
Per capita income measured in constant 1987 dollars increased to $16,366 in 1993 from $13,922 in 1980, and disposable income rose by nearly $2,300 in that same period when inflation is taken into consideration.
The report also depicts a nation whose level of educational attainment is higher than ever; 21.9 percent of Americans had completed four years of college in 1993, compared with 7.7 percent in 1960.
Perhaps as a result of the increasing level of education, the report indicates that the movement toward a less destructive life style has taken hold. In 1974, for example, about half of those 12 to 17 years of age said they had tried cigarettes and alcohol. By 1992, those in the same age group who said they had smoked had dropped to 33.7 percent, while those saying they had sampled alcohol had declined to 39.3 percent.
Similarly, the abstract indicates that Americans' consumption of red meat and eggs -- two foods associated with stroke and heart disease -- decreased markedly from 1970 to 1992, and the annual per capita consumption of whole milk dropped to 81.4 pounds from 213.5 pounds in the same period.
Even broccoli, which nutritionists have long praised and former President George Bush disparaged, has gained wider acceptance. In 1970, per capita consumption of it was half a pound; by 1992 it had increased to 3.4 pounds.
"For us to make such changes in our food consumption over a 20-year period is really remarkable," said Lars Johanson, chief of the Statistical Abstract Section of the Census Bureau. "To some extent, the nutritionists should pat themselves on the back because they are getting the message out."
The report also offers a wealth of data on the nation's most obdurate problems. Though more Americans are graduating from high school, the median scores on Scholastic Assessment Tests have plummeted. In 1993, the average S.A.T. score for the verbal portion was 424, and for the mathematics section, 468; 30 years earlier, the average was 466 for the verbal part, and 492 for math.
Conversely, while test scores have declined, the amount of money that Americans spend on books has increased -- to $16.5 billion in 1992 from $10.5 billion in 1970 in constant 1987 dollars. And the amount of money spent on newspapers and magazines rose to $20.5 billion from $13.2 billion in the same period.
But that increase is dwarfed by the surge in the amount of money spent for video and audio equipment and personal computers. Spending in that category ballooned to $70.3 billion in 1993 from $8.8 billion in 1970.
At a time when many politicians are decrying the breakup of the family, the report showed that the divorce rate, which peaked at 5.3 per 1,000 population in 1981, declined to 4.8 in 1988. In addition, the median duration of all marriages has increased to 7.1 years in 1988 from 6.7 years in 1970.
And although fear of crime has become a major issue in recent years, the percentage of Americans over the age of 18 who own a gun declined to 40 percent in 1991, from 46 percent in 1974.
The Statistical Abstract of the United States can be obtained through any Government Printing Office for $38 or from the National Technical Information Service of the Commerce Department, (703) 487-4650, for $32.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Census Bureau Sampler" shows figures from selected figures from the 1990 Census

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LONGEVITY; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; MAGAZINES; DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; MARRIAGES; FIREARMS ; RELIGION AND CHURCHES CENSUS (91%); RELIGION (91%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (86%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); LITERATURE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); TRENDS (77%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (76%); POLITICS (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); STATISTICS (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



319 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
After years of trying to fix education, why isn't it fixed?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
WHY can't Johnny read? Well, actually, he usually can. After 13 years of public education, most Johnnies (and Joanies) can keep up with Oprah's latest travails in People magazine and even make change for a $20 bill.
So rephrase the question. After decades of breast-beating and trumpeted education reforms, why are most high school graduates only marginally fit for the world of work or college? 
 Eric A. Hanushek of the University of Rochester, along with a dozen other specialists assembled by the Pew Charitable Trust, does not pretend to know for certain. But the Panel on the Economics of Educational Reform, whose new book, "Making Schools Work," (Brookings Institution), is the centerpiece of a conference this week sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences, says the only way to find out is to start thinking systematically about education as a market in which producers are driven by financial incentives.
First the wretched news. After adjusting for inflation, the cost of an average year of public education more than doubled between 1970 and 1990 without any improvement in test scores.
A good chunk of the growth in outlays was driven by what economists call "Baumol's disease": in a world of rising wages, the cost of "people intensive" services will generally outpace the cost of goods produced by processes that can be more easily automated. A bit also went to meet the mandates of the Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975, and a bit more was used to beef up bureaucracies. But much of it, by Mr. Hanushek's measure, went to reducing class size and buying the services of teachers with advanced degrees.
So what's wrong with that? Everybody knows that smaller classes and better-educated teachers mean better schooling; indeed it is the primary virtue trumpeted by elite private schools.
The catch, Mr. Hanushek says, is that there is no systematic evidence that smaller really is better, or that teachers with umpty-four credits toward a master's degree are superior instructors. Certainly the overall performance of public education in America doesn't show it.
While black and Hispanic students are doing considerably better on standardized tests, whites have merely held their own in the last two decades. That puts the average American student in the middle of the pack internationally, performing no better and often worse than counterparts in countries that spend far less on education.
To Mr. Hanushek, the only plausible route to successful reform is to build incentive structures that link rewards to educational outcomes. The idea is hardly new; reformers have been promoting it for years. But Mr. Hanushek argues that efforts have foundered on the failure to tie rewards to outcomes within the control of individuals. Merit-pay proposals, for example, have generally been watered down or quietly discarded under pressure from unions or bureaucracies.
What is needed, he argues, is considerable decentralization of decision-making in education combined with systematic efforts to measure results. In such a world, the role of state and local bureaucrats would "change from manager to coach." Schools within school districts and teachers within schools would have far greater freedom, but would also be subject to far greater accountability.
Dale W. Jorgenson, an economist at Harvard who is not a member of the panel, likened the Hanushek approach to "market socialism" in contrast with the existing system of "regulated monopoly." The idea is to simulate competitive markets where they don't (and perhaps should not) exist. What Mr. Jorgenson does not quite say is that market socialism was a bust in Hungary and Yugoslavia because the incentives were hopelessly compromised by the ability of the losers to appeal the consequences to higher authority. Inefficient enterprises were inevitably bailed out to save jobs and face -- a result, by analogy, that might be expected in public education as long as politicians and bureaucrats have the last word.
More specific criticism comes from Richard J. Murnane, another economist at Harvard. While he is entirely sympathetic with the thrust of the approach, he says "it is much harder to get the incentives right" than Mr. Hanushek suggests. He fears, for example, that teachers would teach for the standardized tests, giving short shrift to unquantifiable skills or goals like good citizenship.
Mr. Murnane also wonders whether decentralization does not create its own trap, sacrificing the potential benefits of professionalism because the current rigid system run by professionals has failed. "We'd be asking teachers to do things they don't know how to do," he said.
What virtually all economists seem to agree on is that there has been scandalously little attention paid to measuring cause and effect. Public education has been a wasteland for research, Mr. Murnane argues, in large part because the good folks paying the bills are not interested in unpleasant answers. It is, of course, an open question whether they are about to become more interested.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PEW CHARITABLE TRUST; BROOKINGS INSTITUTION; NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (83%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEW CHARITABLE TRUST; BROOKINGS INSTITUTION; NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (83%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (75%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MERIT PAY (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (65%); US INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: HANUSHEK, ERIC A ERIC A HANUSHEK (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



320 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: American Jews Focus on Preserving Their Identity;
A New Gift of $15 Million for Graduate Studies in Jewish Education Should Help

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
For American Jews, the most unsettling news these days doesn't always come from the Middle East. It's a lot closer to home.
One of two Jews now marry outside the faith. Less than half of all American Jews belong to synagogues. And even if the children of Jewish parents do take classes in Judaism, they are likely to be taught by teachers whose own training stopped when they were bar mitzvahed. 
 Against this background of erosion in the identity of American Jews, the Jewish Theological Seminary of America has received a $15 million gift for a graduate school of Jewish education.
The gift, by William Davidson, a Michigan industrialist who is the majority owner of the Detroit Pistons basketball team, is the largest donation ever made to a single institution of Jewish education in this country.
Dr. Ismar Schorsch, the seminary's chancellor, said he hoped that the gift, to be officially announced today, would send a strong signal that it was time for Jews in America to focus on their own future.
"This is where the battlefield for Judaism is, not the Middle East," Dr. Schorsch said. "The enormous funds that American Jews sent to Israel for its welfare need to be shifted to Jewish education. The most pressing problem for the survival of world Jewry is the survival of American Jewry."
How to deal with the loss of a distinct identity among American Jews, particularly those of Conservative and Reform backgrounds, has received increased attention from Jewish groups since a 1990 survey found that 52 percent of Jews who married after 1985 did so outside their faith. The survey also showed that only 28 percent of the children of such interfaith unions were being raised as Jews.
Dr. Schorsch said other research shows that only 45 percent of American Jews belong to a synagogue, which is where the vast majority of Jewish children receive education in Judaism in supplementary, or after-school, programs until they reach 13 years of age and are bar or bas mitzvahed.
And a survey to be released next month concludes that many of the teachers in those programs have not continued their own education in Judaism after their bar mitzvahs.
"The teaching ranks are thin and poorly prepared," Dr. Schorsch said. "Yet they are the backbone to cultivate and deepen Jewish identity in American society."
Mr. Davidson, 71, who is the chairman and president of Guardian Industries, the world's fifth-largest glass manufacturing concern, with annual sales of $1 billion, as well as the majority owner of the Pistons, said he chose to make his gift to the Jewish Theological Seminary because it had already demonstrated a commitment to Jewish education.
The seminary, at Broadway and West 122d Street on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, already has professional programs for rabbis and cantors, as well as an undergraduate college and a general graduate school.
"They have the students and the access to those who would want to do graduate work," Mr. Davidson said. "But they have not up to this point had adequate financing."
Seminary officials said the endowment would be used to build on existing graduate studies in Jewish education; they plan to increase the number of students enrolled in graduate studies in Jewish education to 150 from the current 75, beginning in September 1996, and to hire three new full-time faculty members, bringing their total to 10.
In addition to the new graduate school, the endowment will be used to inaugurate continuing education for professionals as well as to start a center for research on Jewish education. (The seminary is not the first school to receive money from Mr. Davidson, who has been the chairman of the United Jewish Appeal for Detroit and is also a past president of Congregation Shaarey Zedek in Southfield. In 1992, his $30 million gift endowed the William Davidson Institute at the University of Michigan Business School, which is dedicated to helping nations in Eastern Europe develop free-market economies.)
Nationwide, Dr. Schorsch said, some 30,000 people work in Jewish education, with only 5,000 of them serving in full-time positions. Training is varied and in many cases, not very thorough.
"A huge number of teachers have not much more education than the students they are teaching," said Alan Hoffmann, the executive director of the Council for Initiatives in Jewish Education. "Most of them are, at best, graduates of Jewish supplementary programs."
Citing a report that will be released next month, Mr. Hoffman said his group surveyed three cities -- Baltimore, Atlanta and Milwaukee -- and found that only 30 percent of teachers in supplementary schools graduated from Jewish day schools. Almost a third received no further Jewish education after their bar mitzvah, and only a quarter of them received one day a week of instruction after their bar mitzvahs.
Those kinds of data are fueling an intense re-examination of priorities in the American Jewish community, which has responded with commissions, task forces and philanthropic involvement at all levels. Some of those discussions have looked at how to make the profession of Jewish education more attractive.
"The failure for most American Jews is that Judaism is a closed book," said Steven Bayme, national director of Jewish Communal Affairs at the American Jewish Committee. "We always prided ourselves as being people of the book. Unfortunately today our capacity to read a Jewish book in the original language has been sharply diminished. We insist on the highest standards in our secular education, but we have yet to transmit that to our Jewish education."
Approaches have ranged from greater emphasis on sending young people to Israel to initiating synagogue programs for the education of young adults who are starting to have children.
Previous efforts to stimulate Jewish education have included gifts by the Wexner Foundation, which provides fellowships for students in Jewish studies courses.
In New York City, the UJA-Federation is for the first time providing grants directly to synagogues to develop new programs, especially for families. It is part of a larger grant plan to develop programs for camps, community centers and students.
The topic of Jewish continuity will also be a major focus of discussions and workshops at the General Assembly of the Council of Jewish Federations, which is to take place next month in Denver. And after years of studying how they could best help Israel, some of the conference participants will try to learn how Israel can help them, as they listen to an address by the Israeli Minister of Education.
"It's part of a broader question of renegotiating the traditional relationship where Israel was the one in need of help and the wealthy diaspora was coming to Israel's aid," Mr. Hoffmann said. "This area is one where there are huge resources of intelligence and spiritual resources in Israel that could be helpful in the training of educators and strengthening the diaspora community."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The logo of the Jewish Theological Seminary of America. (pg. B1); A gift of $15 million from the industrialist William Davidson, left, will support graduate studies in Jewish education at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, whose chancellor is Dr. Ismar Schorsch, right. (Joyce Culver/The New York Times) (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (88%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JEWISH THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY OF AMERICA GUARDIAN INDUSTRIES CORP (51%); DETROIT PISTONS (56%); DETROIT PISTONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JEWISH THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY OF AMERICA DETROIT PISTONS (56%); DETROIT PISTONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (88%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: JEWS; PHILANTHROPY JEWS & JUDAISM (99%); RELIGION (93%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BASKETBALL (88%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); GLASS MFG (50%); 

PERSON: DAVIDSON, WILLIAM; GONZALEZ, DAVID; SCHORSCH, ISMAR (DR) WILLIAM DAVIDSON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



321 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Challenged Bank Defends Its Derivatives Actions

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
The Bankers Trust New York Corporation gave its first detailed rebuttal yesterday to the $73 million lawsuit by Gibson Greetings Inc. in connection with losses that the greeting card company took on transactions known as derivatives.
In a reply filed in Federal court in Cincinnati, Bankers Trust argued that Gibson undertook a series of transactions that entailed risk based on the company's opinion that interest rates would remain stable or decline. 
 "Gibson knew it was taking a position as to the direction that interest rates might move and that Gibson would suffer losses if its predictions were wrong," the Bankers Trust papers said.
Gibson filed suit in September contending that the bank had engaged in "deception, cheating and fraud" by luring it into a series of transactions that ultimately lost $23 million. The contracts involved interest-rate swaps, the most common form of the broad category of transactions known as derivatives, which allow companies to switch the interest payments on their debt from a fixed rate to a floating rate or vice versa.
A central point of the suit is that Bankers Trust had a special obligation to look after Gibson's interests and prevent it from doing things that were too risky. Bankers Trust countered yesterday that the derivatives contracts "were arm's-length agreements between sophisticated business entities, involving no advisory or other special relationship."
L. Clifford Craig, the lawyer for Gibson with Taft Stettinius & Hollister in Cincinnati, declined to comment on Bankers Trust's filing.
Under Federal securities laws, brokerage firms have an obligation to see that investments are "suitable" for individual clients, but generally there is no such requirement for corporate or institutional clients.
"Twenty years ago, before swaps or mortgage-backed securities, if you were a corporation, you were automatically assumed to be sophisticated," said Henry T.C. Hu, a law professor at the University of Texas at Austin.
"Now it's not such a binary world," he said. "There is a spectrum of sophistication, and you could imagine a company saying that a product was so complicated that it did not have full knowledge."
In that case, Mr. Hu said, a judge could find that a bank is obligated to determine whether a deal was suitable for a corporate customer. Such a ruling, however, would have wide implications, he said.
Bankers Trust, moreover, contended that it had fully disclosed the nature of the swaps to Gibson. It said that it presented the company with four potential transactions in October 1992. While three of those were "simple swaps of fixed for floating interest rates," Gibson chose the fourth, which involved a complex formula by which the company would gain if rates fell but would have accelerated losses if rates rose.
At the end of 1993, this swap had a negative value of $3.1 million, but because Gibson had received nearly $3 million in cash under the swaps, its net loss was about $200,000 from its derivatives trading, Bankers Trust said.
As interest rates rose unexpectedly in February, the swap lost value rapidly. Bankers Trust said it had offered the company the right to cut its losses at $8 million and again at $13 million, but the company did not act until the losses reached $17 million in early March.
Even at that time, Gibson's chief financial officer, William Flaherty, did not accept the loss, Bankers Trust said. Instead, the bank contends, he chose to engage in a transaction that had the potential for the company to lose an additional $10 million if rates continued to rise but would also enable the company to recoup most of its losses if rates fell. Since then, the company's losses have increased by $5 million, to $23 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AM (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: GIBSON GREETINGS INC; BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (96%); AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (93%); TAFT STETTINIUS & HOLLISTER LLP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GIBSON GREETINGS INC; BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); SUITS AND LITIGATION LITIGATION (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GREETING CARD PUBLISHING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



322 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: D. Bennett Mazur, a Professor And New Jersey Legislator, 69

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
D. Bennett Mazur, who combined service in the New Jersey State Assembly with a career as a professor at Ramapo College, died on Tuesday at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck. He was 69.
He died of complications from a stroke he suffered in November 1991, the hospital said. 
 Mr. Mazur was elected to a sixth term in 1991 but suffered a stroke the same day. He was sworn in in January 1992 but was forced to resign a month later because of his illness. Later that year the Legislature passed, and Gov. Jim Florio signed, a bill that Mr. Mazur had sponsored to outlaw discrimination based on sexual orientation.
One of the Assembly's most amiable and popular legislators, Mr. Mazur also sponsored legislation to ban the use of leg-hold traps by hunters and to establish the state's 911 emergency-response system
Born in New York City, Mr. Mazur served as an infantryman in Europe in World War II, winning a Bronze Star and three Purple Hearts after being wounded in action.
He began his political career as a tenant activist after moving to Fort Lee a few years after the war. He served on the Bergen County Board of Freeholders from 1965 to 1967 and again from 1975 to 1980 before winning his first election to the State Assembly the following year. He was a strong advocate of the construction of the Veterans Nursing Home in Paramus and the Bergen County Animal Shelter.
Mr. Mazur served on several boards and commissions, including the Tri-State Regional Planning Commission, the New Jersey Railroad and Transportation Study Commission and the Hudson River Waterfront Planning and Study Commission.
He taught planning and public administration at Ramapo, in Mahwah, for 20 years. Mr. Mazur received a B.S. in economics from Lafayette College, an M.B.A. in economics and finance from Fairleigh Dickinson University and an M.S. and Ph.D. in urban planning and public policy formation from Rutgers University.
He is survived by his wife, the former Betty Greene; their four children, Peter of Princeton, Alexandra and Danielle, both of Manhattan, and Nicole of Australia, and one grandson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTATION STUDY COMMISSION (64%); STATE ASSEMBLY (63%); RAMAPO COLLEGE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION STUDY COMMISSION (64%); STATE ASSEMBLY (63%); RAMAPO COLLEGE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (87%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); COUNTIES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); STROKES (77%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); NURSING HOMES (70%); DISCRIMINATION (70%); WORLD WAR II (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (56%); 

PERSON: MAZUR, D BENNETT; SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F D BENNETT MAZUR (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



323 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: The Pop Life

BYLINE: By Neil Strauss 

 BODY:

A Limit for the Dead?
Where have all the Deadheads gone? Concert industry executives are scratching their heads over slow ticket sales for the Grateful Dead's six-night Madison Square Garden stand, which is to begin tonight. As of yesterday, only three concerts had sold out and there were some 5,000 tickets left for each of the other three concerts at the 19,000-seat arena. 
 For almost any other band, this would be considered a successful run. But for the Grateful Dead, who grossed more money than any other touring band last year, it's a shock. The group's concerts have always been a sure thing. The Grateful Dead tour constantly, enjoying strong ticket sales even during periods of recession, and have sold out every show in New York City area in recent memory.
"I never thought I'd live to say this," an executive working on the show said, "but maybe the Grateful Dead have reached their limit this year."
Could it be that Deadheads, who already paid to see the band when it was at Giants Stadium in August, were pumped dry by this summer's high-volume, high-priced concert season? The Grateful Dead's publicity agent, Dennis McNally, said this was part of the reason for the lackluster ticket sales at the Garden. "Ordinarily there's a solid three and half months between our summer and fall shows in New York," he said. "This year, because of the World Cup, we did not get to New York until August. I think that these shows being so close together is 80 percent of the reason."
Bob Grossweiner, the New York bureau chief of Performance, a concert-industry journal, said that the band may also have got overconfident. "They didn't advertise the shows properly," he said, "and a lot of people just assume that Grateful Dead shows will sell out. Also, a lot of people usually buy seats for the whole strip of concerts, and this year the prices, at $30, may be too high."
And that doesn't include the $4-to-$8 service charge.
 
From Lyric to Essay
 "Idle Worship," a new book available only overseas and in Canada, might be worth crossing the border for. It is a collection of essays by writers best known for their songs. Bono of U2 writes an oddly punctuated essay about being "star struck" over Frank Sinatra. The piece includes a behind-the-scenes account of why Bono, who presented Mr. Sinatra with a lifetime achievement award at the Grammys last year, swore during the live broadcast. "Frank heard it and Frank liked it," he writes.
Stephen Malkmus of the alternative-rock band Pavement (which is to perform on Saturday at Roseland) indulges his habit of making elliptical comments that could be interpreted as insults of fellow alternative-rock musicians. In the essay "Vedder as Merton: 2001," he describes a future where U2 has disappeared after switching its charity of choice from Ireland to the Gaza Strip; Mark Eitzel, of American Music Club, and Pearl Jam are involved in a nasty legal battle, and a bitter Eddie Vedder has quit Pearl Jam, become a hermit and taken up the study of Mormon and Shaker history. "Pearl Jam songs are even less catchy than hymns, yet managed to be quite popular in 1993," Mr. Malkmus writes. "Only when melody is the Devil can Stone Temple Pilots be the saviour."
"Idle Worship," which was edited by Chris Roberts, a journalist and musician, also includes a prurient short story by Thurston Moore of Sonic Youth about a young band about to break out of the underground, a sardonic play of sorts by Mark E. Smith of the Fall that lashes out at the bands Therapy? and Soundgarden and an ode to the singer Patti Smith by Kristen Hersh of the Throwing Muses.
 
Loose Notes
 *After wrapping up its tour here, the Grateful Dead are to go into the studio to record their first album of new material since 1989. In the last few years, the band has been working on some 15 new songs in performance, including "Samba in the Rain," "Corinna," "Easy Answers," "If the Shoe Fits" and "Lazy River Road." Also due for release in the spring is a recording from the vaults: a Dead concert in Frankfurt in 1972.
*Both Carnegie Hall and Lincoln Center begin their new jazz seasons this week. Carnegie Hall's third Celebration of Jazz series with the Carnegie Hall Jazz Band, led by the trumpeter Jon Faddis, is to open tonight with a program of Count Basie music that will buck jazz classicists. It will also include a music and text piece about Basie by the trombonist Dennis Wilson and new arrangements of Basie songs by Slide Hampton and Jim McNeely. At Lincoln Center, the fall-winter series is to begin on Saturday with a Charlie Mingus retrospective that includes early Mingus pieces that haven't been played since the 1940's. The former Mingus sidemen Jimmy Knepper, Charles McPherson and Hamiet Bluiett are scheduled to perform along with some younger players, among them the tenor saxophonists Joe Lovano and James Carter.
*Nirvana is about to return to music-store shelves for the first time since the April suicide of the band's leader, Kurt Cobain. In addition to putting out an album documenting the group's performance on MTV's "Unplugged" show, due Nov. 1, Geffen Records is to release an 83-minute Nirvana video, "Nirvana Live! Tonight! Sold Out!!," on Nov. 15. The video, conceived of by Mr. Cobain, chronicles the band's tour in 1992, after the album "Nevermind" came out. It shows Mr. Cobain bashing a Dallas bouncer over the head with his guitar and eviscerating "Smells Like Teen Spirit" during a performance on the English television show "Top of the Pops."
*Also forthcoming is the first new release since Mr. Cobain's death featuring the former Nirvana drummer Dave Grohl and bassist Krist Novoselic. The pair recently recorded a song, "Against the 70's," with Eddie Vedder of Pearl Jam on vocals and Mike Watt, formerly of Firehose and the Minutemen, on bass. This studio session, which is to be on an album of Mr. Watt's collaborations, is probably the source of the rumor that Mr. Grohl was to replace the Pearl Jam drummer Dave Abbruzzesse, who was dismissed from the band last month. (Pearl Jam has denied the rumor.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: IDLE WORSHIP (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GRATEFUL DEAD (BAND) MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRATEFUL DEAD (BAND) NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (66%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC TICKET SALES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MUSIC (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: STRAUSS, NEIL BONO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



324 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Federal Caller-ID Rule Sparks Privacy Debate

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
IT'S already routine for people who have caller identification: The phone rings and before you pick it up, you can glance at a screen that tells you the telephone number of the person calling. But if the party placing the call does not want to be identified in advance, he or she can enter a special code before dialing your number, three extra strokes that mask the caller's identity.
If you are annoyed by not being able to tell who is calling before you say "hello," you can retaliate. You can tell the phone company that you refuse all such calls; then, the anonymous caller will hear a recording stating that your phone won't ring for unidentifiable callers. 
 Caller ID is now available only for calls that originate and end in the same state, but beginning in April, if the Federal Communications Commission has its way, it will work with calls placed between states.
There is a glitch, though. Utility regulators in about two dozen states, including New York, say the F.C.C.'s plan to expand caller ID infringes on the privacy of callers, and they have asked the commission to rewrite its rule. They propose to allow people to mask their identities automatically on all calls, rather than call by call, a system adopted by many states. Privacy experts and advocates for victims of domestic violence are backing this position.
The F.C.C., however, says that allowing businesses to identify callers will help commerce and economic development. It also says the nation needs uniform rules from state to state.
The result is a debate that would have been unimaginable a few years ago, when finding out who was calling meant saying into the receiver, "Who is this?" If the Federal Government does not reconsider its position soon, California is promising to argue against it in Federal court, and New York has said it may join the suit.
Caller ID is already available in most states. What the F.C.C. rule does is to order the three big long-distance carriers, AT&T, Sprint and MCI, to make their caller information available to local phone companies beginning in April, so they can tell their caller ID customers who the caller is, even if the call is long distance.
"We felt caller ID basically was in the public interest," Rosemary Kimball, a spokeswoman for the commission, said last week. With caller ID, for instance, a bank could let its customers handle more business over the phone, because it would have greater assurance of the identity of the caller. A manufacturer of, say, vacuum cleaners that placed an advertisement in a national newspaper would be able to direct callers to the nearest dealership without the shopper ever having to say where home was. A catalogue merchant could quickly call up data from its computer that would indicate the status of a caller's account even before the sales representative answered.
Caller ID, combined with computer software that provides addresses, would allow a pizzeria to check that the call for 16 large anchovy pies to be delivered to a certain address wasn't coming from a prankster across town.
State utility commissions, which regulate local phone companies, have generally agreed that caller ID can be useful, but they have also declared that privacy is in the public interest. Mark Fogelman, a lawyer at the California Public Utility Commission, said caller ID now exists in 48 states and the District of Columbia -- only Alaska and Hawaii don't have it -- and some form of the service that blocks caller ID is available in 41 states.
In 25 states, Mr. Fogelman said, consumers who choose can block caller ID on all calls from their line, whether they subscribe to caller ID or not.
"It seems ridiculous and unnecessarily costly to require that those states unroll the existing options," he said.
Regulators say that just because a telephone subscriber wants to dial another person or a business, it does not necessarily follow that that subscriber wants to let the person or business have his phone number. A person with an unlisted number, for example, might see a television advertisment for a miracle vegetable slicer and call the 800 number promptly to get the Ginsu knife free, but might not want to give the marketing firm his phone number. (Caveat emptor: caller ID has been standard equipment on 800 and 900 numbers for some years.)
In most states, callers can mask themselves and block caller ID by dialing "* 67" before each call, often for no charge. But if they forget to use this code each time, they lose their anonymity.
To a victim of domestic violence, or even a person arguing with a merchant from his home telephone, masking a call may be important. But Peter A. Bradford, the chairman of the New York Public Service Commission, said in June: "Per-call blocking represents the worst of all worlds. The harassing caller is unlikely to forget to use per-call blocking."
In a letter to Vice President Al Gore, Mr. Bradford wrote: "For every consumer who believes that this technology will allow them to let unwanted calls go unanswered, another (perhaps a family violence center, a probation officer or a psychiatrist) fears inadvertently disclosing a home telephone number to someone threatening."
Advocates for victims of domestic violence are particularly worried. Sigrid Hammond, a volunteer at Family Matters, a group in Saratoga, N.Y., that assists victims of domestic violence, said the caller might be a battered wife calling her husband from a shelter but not wanting him to be able to find her, or a child in such a family calling his father without realizing he was giving away his location.
Worse, Ms. Hammond said, is that the "* 67" command has different functions on different telephones. In New York and many other states, if the telephone subscriber chooses per-call masking, then "* 67" blocks a single call. But if the subscriber has chosen to have all calls masked, the "* 67" turns the masking off for a single call.
A telephone customer in her own home may find it easy to keep straight, Ms. Hammond said, but what about a battered woman who flees with her children to a friend's house, and then maybe a parent's house, and then a shelter, in the space of a few days?
Ms. Hammond said she was disappointed by the F.C.C.'s decision. "There's obviously a lot of financial interest in this," Ms. Hammond continued. "But it's not an interest that represents Mr. and Mrs. Simple Citizen who just want to have a telephone, and don't want the world to have some new access to their home that they didn't have before."
Of course, advocates point out, Mr. and Mrs. Simple Citizen can get in the game relatively inexpensively themselves; a caller ID device that works with existing phones can be bought for as little as $30 and is included on some newer phones. The monthly service fee is fairly low; in New York it is $6.50 a month, unless it is bought as a package with other telephone services, in which case it is even less.
The F.C.C. believes it is protecting privacy adequately. Its rule bars companies that have gathered data through caller ID from reselling that data without the caller's permission. So for example, the company that advertises the vacuum cleaners cannot sell its list of customers' phone numbers to a life-insurance company. And long-distance carriers must tell their customers that their phone numbers can be learned by people they call, the F.C.C. has ruled.
In theory, the F.C.C.'s jurisdiction is over interstate calls only. But many state officials say that Federal policy will prevail over all calls, because the phone companies are not equipped to give per-line masking on intrastate calls at the same time that they give only per-call masking on the interstate ones. California, however, is exploring whether it can require per-line masking in the state even if the Federal Government forbids it interstate.
What the states really want, though, is a Federal policy that defers to the rules of the state from which the call is placed.
And the states are not giving up. Mr. Bradford, of the New York Public Service Commission, has an approach that has won him some allies. Caller ID reduces the value of an unlisted phone number, he argues, because it often results in the customer inadvertently disclosing his number. Therefore, he argues, telephone companies should not be allowed to continue to charge for unlisted numbers.
In New York State, about 34 percent of phone numbers are unlisted, and the company Nynex charges $1.95 a month for this service. Costs are small, and revenues come to millions of dollars a month. For several reasons, probably including that one, Nynex is backing New York State's position against the F.C.C.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) FCC CO LTD (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; PRIVACY, RIGHT OF; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; DOMESTIC VIOLENCE ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (77%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (66%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (65%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (61%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (55%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



325 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: What About Dismissals As Shows Must Go On?

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

 BODY:
In a what may be a harbinger of tougher theatrical labor negotiations, the producers of several Broadway shows have pressured the stagehands union into cutting small numbers of backstage workers in recent months, and then have changed their shows slightly to cover the cuts.
Thus far, the changes are probably invisible to audiences -- a spotlight here, a prop there -- but the pattern of cuts that seems to be emerging is angering stagehands. 
 Individually, the producers, who have long complained about the costs of putting on Broadway shows, say they are not acting in concert; it's only a coincidence that so many shows are asking for givebacks virtually simultaneously, they say. But the union's two new business agents wonder if their mettle is being tested.
Each stagehand cut, producers say, saves a show $1,200 to $1,500 a week: $804 basic salary plus overtime, benefits and payroll taxes.
In the last few months, these cuts have been made from shows:
*"Damn Yankees": one spotlight operator and one stage electrician.
*"Tommy": two spotlight operators.
*"Crazy for You": one spotlight operator.
*"Guys and Dolls": two spotlight operators have been dismissed and the producers are trying to get rid of four more stagehands. To do so, they will have to relight the show, drop some tables from the Hot Box Nightclub dance numbers and convert some automated scenery to painted backdrops in a scene in which Sky Masterson takes Sarah Brown to Havana. The union is fighting the cuts.
In the past, the stagehands union, Local 1 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, has gone along with occasional trims from shows that were faltering financially. Union-producer relations are fairly amiable; in 108 years, there has never been a strike or a lockout.
"But this is definitely out of the normal: they've never done it in this vein before," said Ronald Lynch, a union business agent. "You used to get it once a season, when a show was on its last legs, that they wanted to cut someone. Not like this."
Stagehands say they wonder whether several events are working against them: Local 1's powerful longtime business agent, Robert McDonald, retired in May and producers may be testing his replacements, Mr. Lynch and Alan Myers. Also, the union's contract with the League of American Theaters and Producers expires on July 31, 1995; two sides in union negotiations often try a little early swaggering. And, third, a younger generation of independent producers has come to Broadway and is hinting at tougher tactics.
Under the union contract, a stagehand cannot be cut from a show unless whatever equipment he or she operates -- the spotlight, the prop or the sound equipment -- is cut, too.
All the shows involved are long-running productions struggling with declining audiences.
Labor differences aside, can audiences tell the difference? So far, probably not (except the diehard fans who see the same show repeatedly). If "Guys and Dolls" succeeds in changing its Havana set, though, the difference may be more apparent.
David F. Segal was asked to return to "Damn Yankees" and relight with one fewer spotlight and one fewer rolling bank of lights in the Act II "Who's Got the Pain?" mambo scene.
"It's an unfortunate reality," Mr. Segal said, "but you're not going to hear a sob story from me. My assistant and I spent two weeks -- paid -- relighting, and I insisted that the choreographer sit next to me, and I said 'O.K., Rob, who's in the dark?' and fixed it. No one's being cheated. It isn't what opened, I'm sorry to say. But it's still fabulous."
Chris Parry, who won a Tony for his lighting of "Tommy," was asked to relight it with four spotlights instead of six.
"They were backstage lights used mainly to give Tommy a specific aura," Mr. Parry said. "I liked the version we had. But when a producer asks you to relight, I don't see that there's much you can do but acquiesce."
The producers involved say that cutting two or three people from a payroll keeps 120 others working, and add that artistically the shows are substantially unchanged. "If you saw the two side by side, you could tell," said Sherman Warner, a producer of "Guys and Dolls."
"Is it what Jerry Zaks or Tony Walton would have agreed to in the first place?" he said of the show's director and scenic designer. "Probably not. But it still leaves the Broadway show substantially larger than the road company, which got spectacular reviews."
The dismissed employees are, naturally, unhappy. "A couple of salaries aren't going to save a show in trouble," said Jess Ferrara, whose electrician's job was eliminated from "Damn Yankees." (Although, since the union controls hiring, he later replaced a carpenter who left the show.)
Backstage employees at "Damn Yankees" particularly resent recent cuts because, they say, a friend of the producer was in effect added to the payroll at the same time as two stagehands were dropped to save money.
Nancy Ticotin, who lives with Mitchell Maxwell, the show's lead producer, was in the show's chorus and understudied the role of Lola, the seductress. She danced and sang the part from Sept. 4, when Bebe Neuwirth left, to Sept. 20, when Charlotte d'Amboise took it over. Since then, she has remained the understudy -- drawing that salary -- but refused to return to the chorus, so another actress had to be hired.
Mr. Mitchell defended that decision recently. The show still got standing ovations with Ms. Ticotin, he said, and using an understudy during the two-week gap saved tens of thousands of dollars that costuming a new Lola and rehearsing her with the cast would have cost. And since she will be leaving soon to work on a movie, keeping her on the payroll briefly while a new understudy is rehearsed makes economic sense, he argued.
"If I kept Nancy as a standby for a year, that would not be a good business decision," he said. "But it's only going to be for six weeks."
The lead producers of the shows involved say they are not in league to soften up the union.
"No other producers came to me," said Roger Horchow, the producer of "Crazy for You," his first show. "I live in Dallas, Tex. I only know one other producer."
The other two shows, "Tommy" and "Guys and Dolls," are produced by Dodger Productions, an affiliation of Mr. Warner, Michael David and Ed Strong.
"It's not orchestrated," Mr. Warner said. "If it sends a message about next summer's negotiations, that's all to the good. But that was not in the plan."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ALLIANCE OF THEATRICAL STAGE EMPLOYEES NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ALLIANCE OF THEATRICAL STAGE EMPLOYEES NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); THEATER (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); OVERTIME (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



326 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 20; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Among the Small Skirmishes, War Still Rages

BYLINE: By Claire Smith 

 BODY:
Major league club owners and striking baseball players are expected to beckon each other to the negotiating table by next week at the latest. What they will find there will most likely be the same old issues and probably the same old stances.
What they might also find, though, is a possible source of relief emanating from Washington. For yesterday, rumblings of efforts to renew talks were accompanied by rumblings that the executive branch might try to spur the two sides to resume efforts to settle what has become the longest work stoppage in the history of professional sports. 
 An official familiar with Washington's interest in the situation says some activity could be imminent, and if so, it would not be the first time Washington has been interested in the labor wranglings of a sport that was shut down by a players strike Aug. 12. Congress considered but failed to act on legislation that would have either tinkered with the owners' antitrust exemption or threatened binding arbitration if players and owners couldn't come to solutions on their own.
And Federal mediators entered the fray in late August, managing to engineer two negotiating sessions in a sport in which only four formal sessions have been held during the strike, the last back on Sept. 9.
President Clinton as well as Robert Reich, the Secretary of Labor, have also implored both sides to settle. But their efforts have mostly ended with pleas as well as continued offers to make the Federal mediators available if both sides so desired.
Those mediators were unable to keep the parties at the table. The two sides couldn't even do that themselves last month, even as the owners' self-imposed date to cancel the World Series was reached and remaining regular-season games as well as the post-season were eventually canceled on Sept. 14.
No movement or formal initiatives have taken place since. Yes, Donald Fehr, the head of the players union, has held informal discussions with owners, specifically Peter Angelos of the Baltimore Orioles and Jerry McMorris of the Colorado Rockies. But their involvement did not signal a change in the core issues or the owners' positions.
Still, the fact that the two parties are seeking a return to the table spurred intrigue, if not cautious optimism, yesterday. There wasn't a hint of compromise, mind you. But, as Bud Selig, the acting commissioner and owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, succinctly pointed out, if the two sides don't meet, there isn't even a reason to hope for a settlement. "If we're meeting, at least there's discussion," Selig said.
It's not really all people could ask at this point, but it's something. And providing something, anything, isn't merely for appearance's sake any more. Players and owners have come to realize that they are more in need of answers now then they were when the final 52 days of the season were dropping off the calendar. And the reason is the uncertainty surrounding off-season courting rituals.
What to do with player contracts is the topic of the day. And there could be informal talks between the two sides on the owners' proposal to freeze off-season signings until Nov. 15 as early as today.
Still, negotiating sessions on the larger economic issues probably won't take place until next week because of scheduling difficulties, mainly because Fehr spent part of this week touring Latin America to brief players. The availability of McMorris is also a key because the Rockies' owner remains the primary figure in the informal as well as formal talks.
The informal talks between Fehr and the owners have naturally fueled talk of disgruntlement on management's part. But Selig and the owners' chief negotiator, Richard Ravitch, dismiss such talk. The deal, Ravitch said, will ultimately come at the bargaining table. It will, Ravitch said, "because the owners have not budged from their view that there are problems in the game that must be addressed."
Players aren't putting much stock in rumors of owner unrest, either. "As far as I'm concerned, the guy who speaks for the clubs is Bud Selig," said Gene Orza, the associate general counsel of the Major League Baseball Players Association. "And the last time I heard, Bud was still wedded to a salary cap."
As for the possibility of wavering on the players' part, Orza said that's even less of a possibility. "The clubs knew when they proposed a salary cap there was only one way to get it and that was to break the union," he said. "So we're exactly where I thought we would be and where I think we will be in March, unless a ray of light infuses a greater number of club officials."
This gap represents the reality owners, players and perhaps Washington will face next week. The larger war still rages. Smaller skirmishes over issues of the signing ban and its possible implementation loom. That does not suggest that the cooling-off period both sides now see coming to an end doesn't necessarily mean a warming in relations. The opposite could be true.
But, as Selig says, at least another effort will be made. By this time next week, maybe all involved will know if that effort accomplished more good than harm. If it's the former, it would truly be a development that would be welcome for a game much in need of a good turn or two.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN PLEAS AS (66%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; STRIKES; SALARY CAPS; STRIKES BASEBALL (94%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); STRIKES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (53%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



327 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
What's With Assad?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
I spotted Shimon Peres, the Israeli Foreign Minister, on a flight to L.A. last week and plunked myself down in the seat next to him.
How did he explain the latest polls in Israel that show the opposition leader, Benjamin Netanyahu, running neck-and-neck with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin? A fast man with an aphorism, Peres replied: "Polls are like perfume -- nice to smell, dangerous to swallow." 
 That playful parrying was O.K. because the answer is apparent: (1) inflation under the Labor Government is over 14 percent; (2) Rabin's answer is a cockamamie capital gains tax, undermining much-needed investment; (3) the P.L.O. is unable to restrain the murders and kidnappings of Israelis by its rival Hamas, and (4) Syria's dictator, Hafez al-Assad, wants every inch of the Golan Heights before granting Israel the favor of peace.
What's with Assad? I asked.
Sometimes a non-penetrating question draws a revealing response. "Assad may miss again the boat," ruminated Peres. "He waited 17 years for nothing, and now he thinks he should be paid for it. He thinks if he waits, he'll get more, as if the Americans could deliver Israel. He's afraid to bargain because he's worried he may not get the best bargain. He thinks his comment that he is for peace was a great concession and we have to pay for it, and we're not impressed."
Let's assume that is a dovish diplomat talking tough in the hope of turning up the heat under a frigid interlocutor. From other sources, both in and out of touch with the Syrians, I get this assessment of what's with Assad:
1. For all his reputation for shrewdness, he has outsmarted and isolated himself. Egypt's Anwar el-Sadat, despised by Assad, got "every inch" of land back; Assad, 17 years later, finds it painful to settle for less. The penniless Yasir Arafat went into negotiations without Syria; that in turn gave the hungry King of Jordan leave to negotiate a peace treaty with Israel, even as it encouraged the Saudis to ease the boycott. Assad is standing on the platform watching the train of Arab leadership leave the station.
2. Accordingly, he is dropping hints of flexibility. His controlled TV shows King Hussein in Israel; his Foreign Minister gives an interview to Israeli journalists. His negotiators, who demanded a first-phase negotiation lasting only six months after a token Israeli withdrawal from the Golan, now agree to one year, a concession extracted by Secretary Warren Christopher.
3. At the same time, he positions himself for a classic double-cross. Damascus remains the capital of terrorism. Assad has conquered Lebanon and does not trouble its Hezbollah. He is adding to his force of 4,200 modern tanks, and is buying missiles from North Korea and other weaponry from Russia. If fundamentalists take over in Egypt and Assad's allies in Iran buy or develop a nuclear bomb, Syria could lead the Arabs into a Mideast Armageddon.
Taken together with his need for economic sponsors to replace the Russians, these omnidirectional tugs suggest the Israelis are wise to try to reach a territorial compromise with Syria, but would be foolhardy to totally abandon the Golan -- a military position that cries out to be shared, offering security to both nations.
Secretary Christopher, at his best as a shuttling lawyer, spends six hours closely analyzing each point with the suspicious Assad for every hour he spends with the forthright Israeli leader.
What's with Rabin? He is willing to negotiate ultimate total withdrawal in return for a "warm peace," with a force of 1,000 Americans permanently stationed on the heights to guarantee against a surprise attack. (Thirty Israeli troops are on their way to Haiti, as a kind of advance repayment.) Honorably, Rabin -- who promised not to take this gamble -- is prepared to ask Israelis to ratify such an agreement in an unprecedented referendum. A regular election beforehand would be better.
Rabin's motive is noble, and his military career gives his strategic judgment weight. But I think Americans on a Syrian Golan would be a mistake, as is the current positioning of Americans in the Egyptian Sinai; Israel should not rely on another nation's monitors for its defense, and America should make its interventions decisive and brief.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); SYRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (58%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

COMPANY: HAMAS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; SYRIA; GOLAN HEIGHTS; ISRAEL (99%); SYRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (58%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HAMAS (78%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (74%); TAX LAW (74%); TERRORISM (68%); JOURNALISM (68%); PEACE PROCESS (64%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES) SHIMON PERES (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



328 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Arts Groups Should Avoid Lobbying for Corporate Sponsors;
Yet More Jobs Lost

 BODY:
To the Editor:
For several days I've watched a parade of civic leaders stepping over themselves, huffing and puffing over Philip Morris's threat to leave New York if the City Council passes new smoking restrictions. Is the company's attitude so hard to understand?
What Philip Morris is saying is that if the Council uses flawed science to justify legislative grandstanding, the company might just take the hint and go elsewhere. 
 It's time to think about the negative impact of Intro 232 on the local economy. This ill-conceived bill imperils hundreds of jobs that rely on revenue generated by tobacco. How ironic that it is being considered when some are working to bolster the city's shaky employment base.
Council members should become familiar with the facts before passing a law that will damage the city's economy without benefiting public health.
 
JOEL J. SHERMAN
New York, Oct. 10, 1994
 
The writer is president of Nat Sherman Inc., tobacconists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE AND TEA MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC PHILIP MORRIS USA (58%); CITY COUNCIL (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC CITY COUNCIL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMOKING AND TOBACCO LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SMOKING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CITIES (88%); SPONSORSHIP (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TOBACCO STORES (67%); 

PERSON: JOEL J SHERMAN NEW YORK (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



329 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: High-Level Dispute On Who Will Redo Health Care Policy

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
As the White House regroups to devise health care proposals for the next Congress, a dispute has broken out within the Administration over the future role of Ira C. Magaziner, the chief architect of President Clinton's ill-fated health plan.
Leon E. Panetta, the White House chief of staff, has been discussing ideas for a new policy-making process in which Mr. Magaziner's responsibilities would be reduced. But Administration officials said Mr. Magaziner was lobbying to keep a major role, with some support from one extremely influential patron, Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 Mr. Magaziner supervised a beehive of more than 500 people who developed Mr. Clinton's health plan last year. And as the battle over health care played out, he puzzled many Washingtonians. In public speeches, Mr. Magaziner, a soft-spoken Rhodes scholar, seemed diffident and self-effacing. But co-workers, members of Congress and lobbyists said he could also be intellectually arrogant. He anguished over criticism of his work, but did not seem to know how to rebut it.
A business-strategy consultant in Rhode Island before he joined the White House staff in January 1993, Mr. Magaziner often described himself as an outsider with no experience in Washington. Many people agreed with him after seeing the complex health plan he drew up. Indeed, he was said to lack a sense of what was politically possible in a process that was deeply political.
Under the most likely new arrangements, White House officials said, health care proposals would be developed through a more conventional process managed by the National Economic Council and the Domestic Policy Council, with a larger role for people who have more experience in Washington.
Mr. Magaziner will be involved in the process, White House officials said, but will not necessarily be in charge. Lorrie McHugh, a White House spokeswoman, said today that Mr. Magaziner, a member of the Domestic Policy Council, would "still be part of the health care effort." Another White House official said, "Ira's role will be different, but he will be integrally involved."
A third official, who is eager to reduce Mr. Magaziner's role, said: "He's a symbol of what went wrong. That may be unfair, but it's a fact."
Mr. Clinton said on Friday that he intended to "come back full force" with fresh proposals to control health costs and make health insurance available to more people next year. By all accounts, Republicans are expected to gain seats in the midterm elections, so the political challenge for the President will be formidable. Lawmakers and lobbyists predict that the next Congress will take an incremental approach to health care, pursuing changes much more modest than those initially proposed by the President.
Mr. Magaziner, a longtime friend of the Clintons, has told people inside and outside the Government that he expects to play a role in shaping any scaled-back proposals for health care that might emerge from the White House next year. But Ms. McHugh said Mr. Magaziner was not available to discuss his role in policy making.
An aide to Mrs. Clinton said: "Some people think we should start anew, get rid of Ira and make a clean start. But the President and the First Lady still respect his judgment and have trust in his policy sense. That doesn't mean he would lead, initiate or direct the process, but I don't think they have any intention of asking him to step aside. You don't throw the baby out with the bath water."
Other officials at the White House, the Treasury and the Department of Health and Human Services, Democrats in Congress, Congressional aides and outside experts on health policy are lobbying for the selection of someone else to run the Administration's health-policy operation.
"They ought to make Ira Magaziner the Ambassador to Kazakhstan," said Alain C. Enthoven, a professor at Stanford University who has occasionally advised the Administration on health policy.
A friend of Mrs. Clinton, who has worked with her for years on social policy questions, said the First Lady "wants Ira to press the effort on health care reform again." But the friend, who has worked inside the Administration, said she herself had received calls from White House officials asking her to intercede and emphasize the need for new faces.
Republican members of Congress and candidates for Congress are less diplomatic. They invoke Mr. Magaziner's name as a political epithet when disparaging what they describe as "Clinton care." Senator Judd Gregg, a conservative Republican from New Hampshire, said "utopian elitism" ran through the work of Mr. Magaziner and Mrs. Clinton.
Representative Jim McDermott, the Washington State Democrat who advocated a "single payer" health plan financed with taxes, said: "The Administration should search for a new leader of its health care reform effort. Ira had a good shot, a full shot. He had two years. I have no doubt of his intellectual capacity. But he simply doesn't have what it takes to put this effort together and get it done. Once you have failed and everybody has seen you fail, it will be harder to get people to follow you in the future."
Representative Pete Stark, the California Democrat who heads the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said: "We have heard that Mr. Magaziner is trying to resurrect himself as the chief policy guru in the health area over there. In response to inquiries from my staff, that has not been denied by people in the Administration."
While Mr. Magaziner is closely identified with the Clinton plan, some people say it is unfair to hold him responsible. They say Mr. Magaziner has become a scapegoat because Democrats find it easier to criticize him than to criticize the President or Mrs. Clinton.
Lawrence O'Donnell Jr., who worked with the White House as staff director of the Senate Finance Committee, said: "Ira came up with a construction that would not work in the real world. But that's never been ground for condemnation in Washington. All his ideas were approved by the President and Mrs. Clinton. There's no way Ira could just ram his ideas through the White House and the Administration."
While acknowledging some mistakes, Mr. Magaziner has defended his work on the President's health plan. "Conventional wisdom is that the President and his Administration overreached, proposing a radical, big-Government, grandiose plan hatched by policy wonks with political tin ears," he wrote recently. In fact, he said, important elements of the Clinton plan were also found in bills offered by moderate Democrats and Republicans.
In 1984, Mr. Magaziner was the chief architect of a $248 million industrial development plan for Rhode Island. He wanted to use state policies and subsidies to nurture promising industries. The plan was overwhelmingly rejected by voters in a referendum that, in ways, foreshadowed the debate over the Government's role in health care.
White House officials say Mr. Clinton's next health care proposal will probably emphasize cost controls and will be included in his budget request, prepared by the Office of Management and Budget. Big Presidential initiatives are customarily included in the budget, but last year was an exception because the health plan was not ready when Mr. Clinton sent his budget and economic proposals to Congress in February.
Alice M. Rivlin, the new budget director, is an expert on health policy. She serves on both the National Economic Council and the Domestic Policy Council.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 1994, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about President Clinton's fall political strategy referred incorrectly in some editions to his standard campaign speech. It indeed mentions the failed attempt to enact sweeping health care legislation: it says Republican lawmakers thwarted the effort.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The White House is debating whether to reduce the role of Ira C. Magaziner, the chief architect of its failed health care proposal. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ; UNITED STATES (96%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INSURANCE LAW (63%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (63%); INSURANCE (60%); COMPANY STRATEGY (52%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT; PANETTA, LEON E; MAGAZINER, IRA C; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (91%); LEON E PANETTA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994



330 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1632 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: LONG ISLAND;
Cuomo Suggests State Buy Lilco, And Utility Is Considering Offer

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS 

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, locked in a fierce re-election battle, proposed yesterday to have the state buy the Long Island Lighting Company. The company said it would seriously consider the offer, which would cost the state about $9 billion.
Mr. Cuomo, speaking at a news conference in Mineola, L.I., asserted that a state takeover would lower electric rates for Lilco customers -- who pay among the highest rates in the country -- by about 10 percent, or $250 million a year. He said the savings would come through elimination of shareholder dividends and Federal taxes and through lower capital costs. 
 Industry analysts said they believed that if the deal went through, it would be the first time any state successfully acquired a major utility. The cost of the takeover includes about $2 billion for the company's stock and about $7 billion for its debt, state officials said.
Lilco, which lost a bitter, decades-long fight to open the Shoreham nuclear power plant, has long been the object of ratepayers' scorn, and criticizing the company has often been a useful political tool for candidates in search of Long Islanders' votes. But Mr. Cuomo denied that the dramatic announcement was in any way tied to Election Day, a little more than three weeks away.
"If you want to excite people's political curiosity and suggest to them, 'Maybe this is all political,' maybe you ought to make clear that the test of whether this is desirable is not whether this is good or bad for any of the candidates but what you, the ratepayers, get for it," Mr. Cuomo said. "If it works out the way I think it works out, it will be an excellent deal for the public."
Mr. Cuomo's Republican challenger, State Senator George E. Pataki, issued a statement yesterday evening saying that while he had not seen the details of the plan, "for him to act on this issue three weeks before an election is the height of political opportunism."
"Certainly," he added, "Mario Cuomo's motivation is not good government -- but politics."
Mr. Cuomo said state officials had sent a letter to William J. Catacosinos, Lilco's chairman, offering $21.50 a share to stockholders for their common stock, or about 25 percent more than it is now worth. Lilco common stock closed yesterday at $16.50 a share on the New York Stock Exchange, unchanged from the day before. The Governor's announcement came after the close of trading.
The takeover would be financed through tax-exempt bonds issued by the Long Island Power Authority, the state agency that oversaw the decommissioning of Shoreham. Lilco would then be operated by another state agency, the New York State Power Authority, the Governor said. But he said no deal would be made if in the end it could not be demonstrated that ratepayers would save money.
The deal is subject to approval by the boards of the state authorities and by Lilco's board. Suzanne Halpin, a Lilco spokeswoman, said that Mr. Catacosinos, the chairman, had received the offer yesterday afternoon and that the utility's board would mull it over in the near future. "The Lilco board will evaluate the proposal and will be seeking to receive more details about it," she said, declining further comment.
When asked who would need to approve the deal, Mr. Cuomo said that the Long Island Power Authority already had the authority to issue the bonds but that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Justice Department would also have to give their assent.
Dan Scotto, a utility analyst for Bear Stearns, said the Governor's proposal had no precedent. "We've never seen a state come in and try to take over a major utility," he said.
He said it would be important for the state to come up with a long-term plan to bring down the operating costs of the utility so that it could indicate to the financial community that Lilco would remain viable under state control. "They will have to develop a broad plan to show how Lilco is going to survive," he said.
The notion of a state takeover of Lilco has long been a topic of debate on Long Island, particularly at the height of the fight over the Shoreham plant, which many had fought to keep from operating because of fear that the Island could not be safely evacuated in the event of a nuclear accident. Several years ago, state officials made an offer to buy the utility, but it was not considered a serious offer because it was for less than the book value of Lilco's stock.
Mr. Cuomo said a combination of factors, including the increasing amount of competition among utilities and what he described as a change in attitude among Lilco's top officials, had made this the right time for such an offer. "I say this is a different time because the utility outlook has changed in the very recent past as a result of this new push for competition that they never had to deal with before," he said.
Some veterans of the fight over Lilco welcomed the Governor's proposal.
"It's encouraging news," said Nora Bredes, a Suffolk County legislator and a former trustee of the Long Island Power Authority. "I think the Long Island economy is in large part depressed because of Lilco's high rates. It is very hard to attract business when you have such inordinately high electric rates."
But others questioned the need for such an action.
Dr. Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, said other less ambitious approaches might be tried to reduce rates. He said, for instance, that changes in the Federal regulation of utilities allow customers to buy cheaper power from other producers and pay a transmission fee to their local utility.
"There are other alternatives that have to be considered," he said. "The concept of taking over Lilco is something that has been discussed for over a decade, and before the Long Island Power Authority was created."
As far as the expense of buying Lilco, the Governor has made the offer at a time when Lilco stock is trading at far below its historic trading range. Lilco stock has been dropping since it reached a high of $28.75 in August of 1993 and struck a low of $16.125 on Sept. 23 of this year.
Lilco stock, like that of electric utilities across the country, has been depressed by competitive pressures. Mr. Scotto, the analyst, said a reason for the drop was that Lilco became caught up in the uncertainty of how the state and its utilities were going to grapple with the problem of rising rates. In addition, experts say, utility stocks generally do not do well in periods of rising interest rates because utilities need a great amount of capital and must borrow at the higher rates.
Lilco's net income in 1993 was $296 million, down from $302 million in 1992 and $305 million the year before that.
As a public entity, the state would not have to pay dividends to shareholders. Last year, Lilco declared dividends of $1.76 a common share, or about $197.2 million. That came to about 6.8 percent of revenues, which were $2.88 billion. The state, however, would probably be faced with the same bills for fuel for its power plants, which in 1993 was $828 million, and with similar labor costs. The company employs 6,500 people.
The state would also have to pay dividends on preferred stock, which came to $56 million last year -- unless the state bought the preferred shares, too.
How the state might fare at running the Island's electric system is not clear. New York State's own utility, the Power Authority, has had management problems at both its nuclear power plants. One of the plants, Indian Point 3, has been shut for more than a year and a half.
Lilco's electricity supply in 1993 was 33 percent oil, 19 percent gas, 7 percent nuclear from its share of the Nine Mile Point 2 reactor, which is operated by the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation and is near Oswego -- and 41 percent purchased from other producers.
Lilco serves about 1.01 million electric customers in Nassau and Suffolk Counties and the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens. The electric service territory is 1,230 square miles, with a population of about 2.7 million. The company also serves about 442,000 customers with natural gas.
State ownership would also eliminate Lilco's tax payments to the Federal Government, but not state and local property taxes. Lilco reported in its 1993 annual report that it owed $6.3 million in Federal taxes and had deferred payment of an additional $178.5 million.
The 1986 legislation that created the Long Island Power Authority specified that if it ever took over Lilco, the authority would have to make payments in lieu of taxes to local governments and payments to the state equal to the taxes that Lilco would have paid. In 1993, Lilco paid $385.8 million in state and local taxes.
Mr. Cuomo told the news conference that one of the advantages of the buyout was that those Long Islanders who have complained for so long about Lilco will no longer have to deal with the company. "Are there any downsides?" he asked. "I don't see any." He added that bringing the state in would mean "a new accountability" for the utility.
"You can make demands on it and it has to respond to you," the Governor said.
To some Long Islanders, Mr. Cuomo's offer sounded good. Steven R. Quigley, a swimming instructor from Bayville, said he liked the idea of giving the public more say over rates. "The state would be breaking up a monopoly, breaking up some of its power," he said. "They can decide what they want to charge and we are powerless to stop them."
But others did not believe the takeover would benefit consumers. "I'm not sure that if the government purchases the utility, it will necessarily keep the price down," said Linda Watson, another Bayville resident. "I'm really for more privately-owned companies rather than more government."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (93%); NG (LSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (93%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO); NEW YORK STATE POWER AUTHORITY; LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY NATIONAL GRID PLC (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (50%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (55%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO); NEW YORK STATE POWER AUTHORITY; LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY NEW YORK ISLANDERS (55%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ELECTION ISSUES; RATES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES ; GOVERNMENT BONDS ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); COMMON STOCK (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); UTILITY RATES (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); DIVIDENDS (76%); BONDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); MARKS, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



331 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-20
 
U.S. PLANS ARSENAL IN GULF
The United States described a plan to counter any future Iraqi military threats to Kuwait and to increase the American military presence in the Persian Gulf. Additional warplanes and a division's worth of tanks and armor would be deployed, even if Iraqi troops are withdrawn from the border with Kuwait. A1
 
IRAQ WANTS A DEAL ON KUWAIT
Iraq said it favored a Russian proposal under which it would recognize Kuwait in return for the lifting of some economic sanctions within six months. A16 

Marines patrolled the northern Kuwaiti desert. A16
 
U.S. REWARDS HAITIAN MILITARY
Hours after forcing Haiti's military leaders into exile, the White House announced rewards for them, including safe passage for family members to the United States and access to at least $79 million in frozen bank accounts.A1
 
Leaving Haiti for Panama, General Cedras did not look back. A6
 
ULSTER PROTESTANTS CALL TRUCE
Protestant gunmen in Northern Ireland responded to the six-week-old cease-fire of the I.R.A. by declaring their own truce. A1
 
CULT FOUNDER DIED, SWISS SAY
Swiss investigators said that they had identified a cult's spiritual leader, Luc Jouret, among 48 victims found last week in two villages. The discovery reinforced the initial impression that he may have organized a collective suicide. A1
 
BITTER IN EASTERN GERMANY
The German Government is willing to spend whatever it takes to assure that the economic transformation in its eastern region succeeds. But success still seems far away, and many easterners are angry. A1
 
U.S. PRESSES ARAFAT ON SOLDIER
The United States joined Israel in putting pressure on the P.L.O. chairman to make sure that a kidnapped Israeli soldier is delivered safely from Islamic radicals. A3
 
Russia's ruble crisis points to deeper political insecurities. A15
 
Former fighters in Mozambique are becoming armed bandits. A5
 
Serbs seized land from Government forces around Sarajevo. A20
 
Brazil's new President has powerful friends in the media. A19
 
An American fears her Guatemalan guerrilla husband is in prison. A18
 
Wallmanstal Journal: Ex-guerrillas protest their army status. A4
 
National A22-29
 
THE TUSSLES ON THE TUBE
Expensive, negative television advertisements are a staple of election campaigns in California. And never has that staple been more evident than this year. A1
 
UPHILL RUN FOR CITY HALL
Who is the longest of the long shots in this fall's campaigns? Maybe Carol Schwartz, the Republican nominee opposing Marion S. Barry Jr. for mayor of Washington. A28
 
SLAYINGS SOAR AMONG YOUTHS
At a time when the national homicide rate is holding steady, adolescent men are being killed in sharply rising numbers. A22
 
THE PUBLIC AND O. J. SIMPSON
Questionnaires completed by prospective jurors in the O. J. Simpson murder case offer an intriguing, though not entirely convincing, whisper of the vox populi. A26
 
ANOTHER BATTLE WITHIN N.A.A.C.P.
The board of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which only two months ago dismissed the organization's executive director for questionable use of its money, is now confronted by accusations that the chairman improperly used his position for personal gain. A29
 
'GOOD GERMS' FOR BABIES
A study found that bacteria common to breast milk and yogurt can greatly reduce the risk of infant diarrhea. The finding indicates that such "good germs" can be added to foods to attack that worldwide health problem. A29
 
Porter Journal: A little town looks after one of its own. A22
 
An arrest was made in the slayings of two gay men in Mississippi. A26
 
Law Page B18
 
Firms wake up to the problem, and costs, of sexual harassment.
 
In New York State, a housecleaning for the family courts.
 
At the Bar: A law firm's name is more than a moniker.

Metro Digest B1
 
STATE OFFERS TO BUY LILCO
Governor Cuomo proposed that the state buy the Long Island Lighting Company, and the utility said it would consider the plan, which would cost the state $9 billion. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-36
 
The antiques show opens. C1
A stay at the Chelsea Hotel. C1
Hostos Center for the Arts and Culture is opening. C1
Nobel Prize in Literature goes to Japanese writer. C3
For Children C14
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
Film: "Exit to Eden." C20
"Wes Craven's Nightmare on Elm Street." C8
Dance: "Funny Papers." C22
Restaurants C26
Art: Luis Cruz Azaceta. C30
Landscapes and monuments of France. C35
Art in Review C28
Books: A daughter remembers Anne Sexton. C36
Television: TV Weekend D17
Home Video D17
 
Sports B10-16
 
Obituaries B9
 
Arlene Carmen, church administrator.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A34-35
 
Editorials
 
A chance for peace in Ireland.
Colorado: democracy triumphs.
Clinic "shell game" is a winner.
Topics: The practice of power.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Shrinking Saddam.
Anthony Lewis: Time to grow up.
Michael Mandelbaum: Can Aristide be Haiti's Mandela?
Roy Peter Clark: Natural born killers.
 
Chronicle B2
 
Crossword C36

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); HAITI (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); GULF STATES (90%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); GERMANY (69%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); C1 HOSTOS CENTER (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: C1 HOSTOS CENTER (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); HAITI (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); GULF STATES (90%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); GERMANY (69%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); ARMIES (78%); CRIME RATES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MAYORS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); RELIGION (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); MURDER (68%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (67%); SUICIDE (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); HOMICIDE (60%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (60%); JURY DUTY (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



332 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Says Connecticut Broke Truce

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
Still smarting from the Swiss Bank Corporation's decision to accept incentives to move from New York City to Connecticut, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that the city would begin aggressively trying to woo businesses out of Connecticut.
Mr. Giuliani and his Deputy Mayor for finance and economic development, John S. Dyson, said the city would no longer abide by a 1991 agreement reached between Connecticut, New Jersey and New York State to avoid bidding wars over one another's businesses and jobs. 
 The officials said that Connecticut already violated the agreement last month by persuading Swiss Bank to build a new North American headquarters in downtown Stamford, in what Mr. Dyson called "a shameless raid."
Mr. Giuliani's announcement came a day after the General Assembly in Hartford voted overwhelmingly to pass legislation approving the state's $120 million package of tax breaks and incentives for the bank, which is based in Zurich. Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. is scheduled to sign the legislation today, a spokesman said yesterday.
At Mr. Dyson's instigation, the Giuliani administration took out large display ads in three Connecticut newspapers on Sunday denouncing the incentives for Swiss Bank as overly generous and costly for taxpapers -- partly in the hope of blocking final approval of the deal and sending a warning for the future.
With the approval now certain, the Mayor and Mr. Dyson said they would begin talks with corporations in Connecticut on incentives to relocate in New York City. They declined to specify the companies, but Mr. Dyson said that about 10 had already called his office after seeing his telephone number in the ads.
"If you start a border war, you don't really give us much choice but to fight back," Mr. Dyson said, appearing with the Mayor at City Hall. "New Yorkers are not widely considered to be patty-cakes."
Officials in Connecticut said yesterday that the state had no intention of making a policy of bidding against New York for businesses. But they accused the Mayor's office of misrepresenting the situation, since they said Swiss Bank had approached Connecticut, rather than the other way around. They said that if the city wanted a border war, Connecticut would fight and win its share of battles.
Joseph M. Cohen, a spokesman for Connecticut's Department of Economic Development, accused the Giuliani administration of amateurism by using "increasingly nasty rhetoric" and warned that a fight over corporations could hurt the economy of the entire region.
"Connecticut is a lot more cost-effective, has a higher quality of life and is more business friendly," Mr. Cohen said yesterday. "That is not to say New York City isn't one of the great places in the world for businesses to be located. It simply wasn't the choice for Swiss Bank."
Then, tweaking back, he added, "Rather than behave like pimply-faced freshmen, New York City should show the class of a sophisticated senior."
The skirmish came as Mr. Giuliani announced yesterday that the city had offered $15 million in tax breaks and incentives to Viacom Inc., the entertainment and communications giant, to keep its headquarters and 4,450 jobs in New York City for at least 15 more years.
After Viacom's recent acquisition of Paramount Communications Inc., Viacom had considered moving at least some of its office and studio space to New Jersey, Mr. Giuliani said.
The Mayor said the incentives that Viacom received were similar to those offered to six companies over the first 10 months of his administration to retain a total of 30,000 jobs -- more, he said, than the total jobs retained in the four years under Mayor David N. Dinkins.
Under Mr. Giuliani, however, the city has lost two major corporations: Swiss Bank, which plans to move 1,300 of its 1,500 jobs now in Manhattan by 1998, and Mastercard International, which announced in July that it would move its headquarters and 540 jobs to Westchester County.
Mr. Dyson said that the city's packages of incentives, which usually involve energy credits and exemptions from sales and business taxes, varied from case to case, but generally equaled about $10,000 for each job retained.
By comparison, he said, Connecticut offered Swiss Bank about $60,000 a job, though Mr. Cohen said that the incentives would not come out of taxpayers' pockets but out of tax revenue expected to be generated by the bank.
Mr. Giuliani said that until now, the city's efforts had focused on retaining jobs, particularly during the economic downturn of the late 1980's and early 1990's, when corporations sought to grow smaller or move. He said the city had already begun efforts to attract businesses from other parts of the United States and from abroad.
Mr. Dyson said the city would continue to honor the 1991 agreement not to entice businesses from New Jersey, an accord that Mr. Giuliani has publicly reaffirmed with his fellow Republican, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman.
"We never had an acquisition policy, as compared to a retention one," Mr. Dyson said. "But now that Connecticut has refused to honor our good neighbor policy, we have no choice."
Mayor Stanley J. Esposito of Stamford, which has praised celebrated Swiss Bank's relocation as a boon for its downtown, said that economic development was important to every city. But he considered New York City's response unsportsmanlike.
"You win some and you lose some," Mr. Esposito said. "In this particular case, it turned out well for Stamford and Connecticut."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VIA (AMEX) (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ZURICH (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SWISS BANK CORP SWISS BANK CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWISS BANK CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ZURICH (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); APPROVALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MAYORS (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); PRINT ADVERTISING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); DYSON, JOHN S (DEPUTY MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



333 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: THE DIPLOMACY;
Russia and Iraq Work Out Plan to Ease Gulf Tension

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 13

 BODY:
As the United States lobbied hard for a new Security Council resolution to deter Iraq from repeating its recent threatening military moves, Iraq and Russia announced tonight in Baghdad that they had reached an agreement that would lead to Iraqi recognition of Kuwait.
The Iraqi concession, which would also recognize Kuwait's borders as demarcated by the United Nations, would be linked to the lifting of some of the international sanctions now imposed on Iraq within six months. 
 The accord was reached in talks between President Saddam Hussein of Iraq and the Russian Foreign Minister, Andrei V. Kozyrev, who was in Iraq in an effort to defuse tensions in the region. Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, is in Baghdad for consultations with his Government after making a speech here last Friday attacking the United States, just as Iraqi troops were moving toward Kuwait. Mr. Kozyrev and Mr. Aziz are to brief the Council next week on their agreement.
Iraq's linking of a pledge to recognize Kuwait in return for the easing of an embargo at some fixed future date is not new. The Hussein Government has been arguing that when a United Nations weapons monitoring system is in place and has been adequately tested, Iraq will have met its obligations under one of several sanctions resolutions and would be entitled to resume selling oil.
The monitoring system is now functioning and a report to the Security Council on its operation is due in six months.
The United States and its allies on the Council have said repeatedly that there will be no bargaining between the United Nations and Iraq over terms of easing sanctions. Under resolutions now on the books, Iraq must not only unconditionally recognize Kuwait and the borders recently redrawn by an international demarcation commission but must also return stolen Kuwaiti property, account for Kuwaitis still missing from the 1990 Iraqi invasion and meet other conditions.
Tonight Kuwait's representative at the United Nations, Mohammed A. Abulhasan, said that recognition of his Government was only one step in a process of meeting commitments, and that it was too early to judge the depth of Iraq's promises.
As Mr. Kozyrev was in Baghdad trying to wring concessions from the Iraqis, a war of words between the Clinton Administration and the French Defense Minister over how to deal with President Hussein grew sharper today when Madeleine K. Albright, the chief United States delegate here, accused the minister of "giving comfort to a brutal dictator who is a repeat offender."
On a day when the United States continued to lobby for a Council resolution on restraining the Iraqi President from further threatening the Persian Gulf region, Ms. Albright reacted angrily to comments on Wednesday by the French official, Francois Leotard, who said the American troop buildup in the gulf was motivated by domestic politics.
In Paris, the French Foreign Ministry spokesman tried to smooth over the dispute by reiterating France's unambiguous criticism of Iraqi troop movements, which he characterized as an attempt to intimidate the international community. He said that the French and Americans were working closely and in mutual trust in Security Council consultations. Ms. Albright and French diplomats here also made that point.
The heated exchange with Mr. Leotard came just as the United States began circulating among the French, British and Russians here some draft language for a resolution that would demand a return of Iraqi troops to their original positions.
No formal action on such a resolution is expected before next week, until after the Council has heard from Mr. Kozyrev and Mr. Aziz. The draft language now being circulated for discussion by Ms. Albright would threaten serious consequences if President Hussein menaced Kuwait again. American officials said this week that they believed that they had the authority to attack Iraq without further recourse to the Council if the Iraqis defied these warnings.
The Americans seem confident that the British and French could be convinced to support a resolution. There are also hopes that Russia can be brought into a consensus. The fifth permanent Council member, China, has said only that it wants to see the dispute resolved through dialogue.
With most of today's Council activities going on behind closed doors, in corridors or over lunches, attention centered on Ms. Albright's unusually harsh attack on Defense Minister Leotard. She described as "ludicrous" his remark that the movement of American forces was ordered for domestic political gain.
"There are times when you've got to turn the other cheek, and there are times when you've got to tell it like it is," Ms. Albright said of the French Defense Minister's comments as she talked with reporters outside the Council chamber. "And here I believe that the comments by the French Defense Minister are very ill-informed and counterproductive."
Continuing the attack, she added that "there are countries who have commercial interests with Iraq and I think one ought to look into that and consider reactions in that guise."
This was a fairly direct reference to French oil interests in Iraq. Baghdad owes French companies and French Government insurers nearly $5 billion, and this situation has been thought to be behind France's willingness to begin easing sanctions on Iraq, now that a weapons-monitoring system is in place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KUWAIT (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); FRANCE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; RUSSIA; MIDDLE EAST; KUWAIT; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KUWAIT (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); FRANCE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LOBBYING (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; KOZYREV, ANDREI V (MIN) ; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



334 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
 
Microsoft is poised to dominate personal finance software, the only niche of the software market it does not already lead, by agreeing to acquire Intuit Inc., the producer of the Quicken program, in a stock swap valued at $1.5 billion. The deal would be the largest software acquisition ever. [Page D1.]
 

Gas stations are welcoming back credit cards as more oil companies team up with banks to issue cards. Another reason for the shift is that credit card technology has become simpler. [D1.]
 
Matsushita repeated that MCA was not for sale. But that could change if the company received an offer too good to refuse or if its executives decided that MCA and its Universal subsidiary would have little value without Steven Spielberg and David Geffen, who have formed an alliance with Jeffrey Katzenberg. [D1.]
 
Liberty Financial will buy Colonial Group for $310 million. The merger would create the nation's 25th-largest mutual fund company as part of a diversified asset-management firm. [D2.]
 
Eli Lilly delayed its purchase of PCS Health Systems amid signs that the F.T.C. may challenge it on antitrust grounds. [D2.]
 
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo proposed that Long Island Lighting be acquired by New York State. A deal would cost $9 billion. [A1.]
 
MCI Communications is nearing a wireless telephone alliance with Bell Atlantic and Nynex, executives at two of the companies in the talks said. [D4.]
 
Conseco is buying shares of Kemper, which it agreed in June to acquire for $3.25 billion. [D4.]
 
Sybase said earnings grew 76 percent in the third quarter on increased revenues for its core data base server software. [D4.]
 
The editor in chief of Good Housekeeping magazine will step down to become president of a new Hearst Magazines division. [D17.]
 
A $7.1 million judgment against Baker & McKenzie of Chicago has awakened law firms to the issue of sexual harassment. [B18.]
 
The Economy
 
Producer prices declined unexpectedly in September. While the report heartened investors at first, analysts asserted that the data showed little overall lessening of inflation pressure. [D1.]
 
Mutual funds could be required to include a single-page summary of the risks and expenses that investors face in their prospectuses, under a proposal by the chairman of the S.E.C. [D1.]
 
International
 
The ruble bounced back, but insecurities remain within the Russian economy and political leadership. News Analysis. [A15.]
 
Markets
 
Government securities staged a broad rally. The report on producer prices eased fears about accelerating inflation. [D5.]
 
Stocks ended higher, after retreating from an early rally prompted by the unexpected decline in producer prices. [D6.]
 
The dollar fell to a seven-week low against the German mark,
despite rallies in United States bond and stock markets. [D13.]
Silver and gold prices tumbled. The metals, considered hedges against inflation, fell after inflation concerns eased. [D13.]
 
Today's Columns
 
Merger mania has yet to run its course in the hospital industry. While two giant mergers have been recently announced, analysts say even bigger deals may be possible. Market Place. [D6.]
 
Big marketers are increasingly trying cause-related marketing, hoping to burnish their images as well as build their sales. In one such example, Campbell Soup and Chrysler will promote a national day of volunteerism. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D16.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (91%); VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); LLY (SWX) (55%); LLY (NYSE) (55%); CNO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (65%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (55%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTUIT INC (91%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); HEARST CORP (65%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); BAKER & MCKENZIE LLP (55%); ELI LILLY & CO (55%); PCS HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (55%); CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE SOFTWARE (91%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); INFLATION (85%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); MERGERS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); GAS STATIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); BONDS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); US DOLLAR (73%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); LAWYERS (68%); LEGAL SERVICES (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (50%); GERMAN MARK (50%); NETWORK SERVERS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (57%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (57%); DAVID GEFFEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



335 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Board Chairman of N.A.A.C.P. Is Focus of Dispute on Finances

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Two months after firing its executive director, the N.A.A.C.P. is embroiled in another dispute involving one of its top officers, William F. Gibson, the chairman of the board.
In three columns written over the last week, Carl T. Rowan, the syndicated columnist, has asserted that Dr. Gibson has used his position as chairman for personal gain. 
 Mr. Rowan, a former official in the Johnson Administration, alleged that the chairman had used an American Express card provided by the civil rights organization to charge more than $500,000 in airline travel, hotel expenses, car rentals and personal items since 1986.
Citing financial records of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Mr. Rowan also alleged that Dr. Gibson had received $300,000 in questionable reimbursements since he became chairman. Some of the checks carried the notation "receipts to be provided," according to Mr. Rowan, while others noted that the disbursements did not match purchase orders.
Copies of N.A.A.C.P. financial records viewed today indicated that for 1990 Dr. Gibson received either $2,800 or $3,000 a month. Copies of the checks list the reason for the payments as "board travel and per diem" or "office expenses." But the fact that the monthly payments were always either $3,000 or $2,800 raised the question of whether they constituted a stipend.
Financial records also indicate that in 1986, Dr. Gibson, a dentist from Greenville, S.C., who, like all board members, is a part-time, nonsalaried volunteer, billed the organization $30,579 for travel, hotel and restaurant costs and car rentals. That is nearly three times the $11,479.07 billed to the organization by Benjamin L. Hooks, who was the group's full-time, paid executive director at the time.
There is also evidence that Dr. Gibson tried to charge a speaking fee for an appearance at an N.A.A.C.P. branch. In a letter dated Jan. 7, 1991, officials of the Monterey Peninsula Branch in Seaside, Calif., rejected Dr. Gibson's request for a $1,000 fee to appear at their Life Membership Banquet.
"The branch realizes it must pay your transportation at an economic rate ($300-$400)," wrote Ruthie Watts, the branch's membership chairwoman. "Hotel room is complimentary of the hotel. So what is the $1,000 for?"
In a telephone interview, Ms. Watts confirmed that the incident had occurred but declined to discuss it in detail. She said Dr. Gibson did not appear at the banquet.
Dr. Gibson has denied using the organization's money for personal use, and last week the board's executive committee released a statement supporting him against the allegations raised by Mr. Rowan.
"After receiving an explanation from Dr. Gibson, the Executive Committee is totally satisfied that he has done nothing improper and that any reimbursements received during his tenure were properly authorized expenditures," the statement said.
The 64-member board is scheduled to meet on Saturday at the N.A.A.C.P.'s headquarters in Baltimore to review the progress the organization has made in putting its financial affairs in order. Several board members say the allegations against Dr. Gibson will be discussed. Some of his critics on the board say there will be a move to ask him to resign or at least step aside until an independent audit of spending by board members is done.
"There are individuals on the board who will be calling for his resignation," said Joseph Madison, a board member from Washington. "It's a decision as to how much they value the integrity of the organization."
At a news conference today to announce an agreement with a group of black newspaper publishers to provide free advertising for the N.A.A.C.P. as part of an effort to boost membership, Dr. Gibson declined to answer questions about the accusations of financial impropriety.
In August, the board dismissed Benjamin F. Chavis Jr. as the organization's executive director after it determined that he had committed the N.A.A.C.P., without the board's knowledge or approval, to pay as much as $332,400 to a former female employee after she threatened a sexual discrimination suit.
The latest accusations come as the N.A.A.C.P., the nation's oldest and largest civil rights group, struggles with an acute financial crisis. The group is more than $3.5 million in debt and has said that employees making more than $22,000 annually will have to take a two-week unpaid furlough before the end of the year.
Corporate and foundation donors have been reluctant to help the organization until they believe that procedures are in place to insure sound financial management. People at the N.A.A.C.P. familiar with the situation say that the Ford Foundation, which helped bail the organization out of a financial hole in 1992, has been holding back a $500,000 two-year grant until outside financial experts are brought in to oversee the organization's finances.
Lloyd Garrison, a spokesman for the Ford Foundation, declined to discuss the situation, except to confirm that the money had not been released.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The board chairman of the N.A.A.C.P., William F. Gibson, center, has denied accusations that he used organization funds improperly. At a news conference called today to promote a membership drive, Dr. Gibson declined to answer reporters' questions about his finances. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (57%); AMX (LSE) (57%); AMEXP (PAR) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (54%); 

CITY: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (54%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES, PERSONAL; ETHICS EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (72%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); ETHICS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (56%); 

PERSON: GIBSON, WILLIAM F; HOLMES, STEVEN A WILLIAM F GIBSON (95%); CARL T ROWAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



336 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Fell Last Month

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
The widely watched Government gauge of producer inflation dropped sharply in September, suggesting that price pressures were markedly less intense last month than economists had predicted. But closer examination of the Labor Department report showed little, if any, overall lessening of inflation pressure.
The news touched off fresh rallies in the bond and stock markets in the morning. But these rallies subsided as the data were examined and investors looked ahead to the release of the September Consumer Price Index and other important economic data on Friday. [Pages D5 and D6.] 
 "On the surface you'd say that inflation paused in September," said Eugene J. Sherman, research director at M. A. Schapiro & Company in New York, commenting on the five-tenths of 1 percent decline in the Producer Price Index for finished goods, the biggest monthly fall in more than a year. "But inflation is not an event, it's a process," he said, expressing concern at hefty price increases for goods at earlier stages of production.
While the prices for finished goods, like a suit of clothes, did decline last month, the prices for intermediate goods, like a bolt of cloth, and crude goods, like a bale of cotton, have now posted large advances for four straight months, excluding the volatile food and energy items.
"The economy is looking pretty strong," said James W. Coons, economist at the Huntington National Bank in Columbus, Ohio, taking no comfort in today's report and predicting that the "upstream" pressures would lead to a 4 percent inflation rate for consumers by spring, about a point higher than the current rate.
Patrick McCoy, treasurer of Hinkley Lighting Inc., a Cleveland producer of chandeliers and other lighting fixtures for new homes, said today that the 7 percent price increase his company put through in July -- on top of a 9 percent rise a year earlier -- was sticking and that there was little sign of slackened demand.
Hinkley's costs for brass, sheet metal and other materials have risen about 4 percent this year, Mr. McCoy said.
Economists also tended to dismiss the notion that today's report would have any significant effect on the Federal Reserve, which is still expected to raise interest rates again this autumn in its drive to keep inflation at bay.
Some, however, expressed fresh hopes the Fed would at least wait to make its move until its next policy meeting on Nov. 15.
"If the Federal Reserve raises interest rates anytime soon, it won't be giving business enough credit for its continuing ability to contain operating costs and price pressures," said Ron Schreibman, vice president of the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors.
"Our member companies, who pay the prices measured by the P.P.I., are experiencing some upward price pressures in the pipeline," he added, but "they're telling us that chairman Greenspan should holster his interest-rate gun for the time being."
The biggest inflation factor, economists agree, is what happens to wages. So far, despite shortages of some types of workers like long-haul truck drivers, these seem contained.
In a separate report, the department said today that first-time claims for unemployment benefits eased 5,000 last week, to a total of 314,000. This helped bring the average for the latest four weeks down to 316,000, the lowest point in more than five years.
In addition to the Consumer Price Index, the Government is to issue September figures for retail sales, industrial production and capacity utilization on Friday.
The sharp, presumably temporary, downdraft in the Producer Price Index last month was mainly the result of a 1.1 percent decline for passenger cars, a 7.5 percent drop for gasoline and a 10.3 percent tumble for roasted coffee.
Not counting food and energy, finished goods edged up one-tenth of 1 percent, a better than expected performance for the "core" rate that some specialists said resulted from quirks in the way the department made its seasonal adjustment for cars.
"Are car prices really going down?" asked David Orr, chief economist at the First Union National Bank in Charlotte, N.C. "When forced to choose between economic statistics and common sense, use common sense," he said.
On the other hand, the report said that prices rose smartly for tobacco products (2 percent) and accelerated for prescription drugs (nine-tenths of 1 percent), books, alcoholic beverages, mobile homes, furniture and over-the-counter drugs.
Before seasonal adjustment, the overall index for finished goods dropped nine-tenths of 1 percent for the month.
Among intermediate goods, prices climbed three-tenths of 1 percent over all and six-tenths of 1 percent for the core rate, which excludes food and energy, the report also showed.
Nondurable materials used in manufacturing, like chemicals, jumped 1.7 percent after a 1.4 August surge, lifting the annual pace for the latest three months to 17 percent, nearly double that of the second quarter.
Construction materials rose five-tenths of 1 percent to raise the quarterly pace to 4.5 percent, from 3 percent in the March-June period.
For factory durables, like copper and brass mill shapes, the advance was eight-tenths of 1 percent after an increase of seven-tenths of 1 percent in August. For the quarter, the acceleration was more modest than for nondurables, to an 8.6 percent pace from 8.1 percent.
Crude goods dropped 1.6 percent, mainly because of slides in crude oil and natural gas that drove the energy category down 5.3 percent after being virtually unchanged in August. Crude goods other than food and energy rose 1.3 percent last month and soared at a 20.4 percent annual rate for the quarter after falling 2.1 percent in the spring.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Producer Prices" shows index of finished goods prices from April '93-Sept. '94. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HBAN (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) M A SCHAPIRO & CO INC (70%); HINKLEY LIGHTING INC (66%); HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INC (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES PRODUCER PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); FABRICS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); WHOLESALERS (68%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



337 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: At the Pump, Cash Bows to Credit

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
Twelve years ago, ARCO shocked the gasoline business by canceling all the credit cards it had issued -- even blowing one up in a television commercial -- and stressing prices instead. That ushered in an age of discounts for cash at the pump. But now the pendulum is swinging the other way.
Oil companies have not only eliminated their discounts for cash, they have also begun to offer a new type of credit card that offers rebates on future gasoline purchases. It's a kind of frequent-flier program for people whose "flying" is limited to brief jolts on bumpy roads. 
 Last month, Exxon dropped its discount for cash payments, one of the last companies to do so, and joined Shell, B.P., Amoco, Sunoco and Unocal in promoting a credit card offering rebates.
So consumers who were once offered a discount of 3 or 4 cents a gallon if they paid cash are being offered savings of that much or more if they use credit.
Since last November, when Shell and the Chemical Bank started the so-called co-branded cards, Shell has issued 3.3 million cards, and other oil companies, teaming up with other banks, have issued additional millions. Most of the cards do not charge annual fees.
The number of co-branded cards is small compared with the number of traditional gasoline-only credit cards that oil companies have issued for more than 60 years. About 60 million of those are in circulation. But the co-branded cards are "just up and getting started," said the president of The Nilson Report, David Robertson.
The co-branded cards, generally Mastercard or Visa, offer rebates of 1 or 2 percent on general purchases, while gasoline purchases generally earn 2 or 3 percent rebates. Both kinds of rebates can be spent on anything sold at the gasoline stations or their attached mini-marts.
The new cards are one reason for an increase in the use of plastic in place of cash to buy gasoline. The proportion of gasoline sold through credit and debit cards, including cards for automatic teller machines, was about 1 in 3 last year. Five years earlier it was 1 in 5, according to The Nilson Report, a credit-card newsletter in Oxnard, Calif.
Mobil now sells 42 percent of its gasoline with plastic, and in some markets well over 50 percent, said Nancy B. Carlson, the marketing development manager.
"There has been a significant shift in attitudes toward the use of credit," said Bruce Tackett, a spokesman for Exxon.
Another reason for the change is that credit card technology has become simpler. No longer do oil dealers have to sort little squares of paper and carbons. Now electronic devices that read the magnetic strips on the backs of the cards are cheap enough to attach to pumps, adding $3,500 to the price of a $10,000 six-hose fuel dispenser. The control console at the cashier's station adds an additional $10,000, but the big oil companies will often subsidize dealers' costs.
Dealers like the card-activated pumps because they save labor and mean that each car spends less time at the pump -- even if that risks allowing customers to complete their transactions without ever coming in sight of the beef jerky and cheese dip inside. An open pump, after all, beckons a passing driver; a car left vacant at the pump while the driver pays a cashier warns away potential customers.
Mothers are said to especially favor the pay-at-the-pump credit cards over leaving the children and walking into the convenience store to pay -- or taking them along and trying to avoid the candy rack. "You could lay it at the feet of the women," said Trilby Lundberg, president of the Lundberg Survey Inc. of North Hollywood, Calif., a company that tracks gasoline prices and trends. "There are more women with kids in the car than there are men."
And cards of any kind build customer loyalty, experts say. "Once you've got the credit card in the driver's hands he's a very loyal customer and he's more likely to buy product he doesn't need like a midgrade gasoline or a premium," said an industry analyst who insisted on anonymity.
Ms. Carlson of Mobil said the use of credit cards to buy gasoline was strongest in California, where the cards first became popular, and weakest in New England, where people think that "it's never good to use plastic," she said. New Englanders have taken to using bank A.T.M. cards, though, she added.
Customers can reap substantial benefits. Shell says its customers have earned $40 million in gasoline rebates since November.
But how much that means to a typical customer is not clear, and the dollar value may be small. Shell said when it started the program that an average driver would probably save $70 a year. A spokesman, Michael Sternesky, said on Friday that it was too soon to tell what the average saving was.
Earning the rebates means accepting the interest rate, which may be higher than the rate on competing cards, warned Ruth E. Susswein, executive director of Bankcard Holders of America, a consumer group in Salem, Va. At the American Automobile Association, Peter Crescenti, a spokesman for the New York State chapter, said customers might be better off "going to Joe's Brand X, where gas may be 7 or 8 cents cheaper."
Customers with such cards generally earn some rebates on nongasoline purchases, Mr. Crescenti said, but "you need to scrutinize your buying habits" to determine whether a card is worth it. "A lot of consumers don't get into this heavy kind of figuring," he said. "It boils down to convenience and perceived value."
Not everyone is in the parade. Amoco continues to offer discounts for cash, and so does Texaco at some stations that are operated by dealers. A spokesman for Texaco said the decision was generally made market by market, according to competitive conditions in each area.
Moving credit card readers to the pump has had another effect, Mr. Robertson said. Credit card fraud is a challenge in many areas of the economy, but the pumps have become a magnet for stolen cards, he said.
"That self-activated terminal serves to tell the person whether that stolen card has been reported stolen," he said. When thieves obtain a stolen card, he said, "the first thing they do is go to a gas station, find out if it's on a hot list." At a gasoline pump, they need never show their faces.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Fill 'er Up, and Charge It" shows percentage of gas stations charging different prices for credit and chash purchases, and total retail sales of gasoline and diesel fuel in the United States from 1987-2000 (projected) (Sources: Lundberg Letter, The Nilson Report, Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); BP AMOCO POLYMERS (56%); CHEMICAL BANK (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GARAGES AND SERVICE STATIONS; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; GASOLINE; REBATES CREDIT CARDS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GAS STATIONS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (88%); BRANDING (87%); GASOLINE (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (72%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (70%); DEBIT CARDS (66%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L NANCY B CARLSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



338 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Advance but Ease at End

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of government securities posted a strong advance yesterday after an unexpected drop in September producer prices but Treasuries gave up some of their gains by the end of the day.
All maturities rallied sharply on the producer price report, as the data eased investor concern about accelerating inflation. The report convinced most market participants that the Federal Reserve would not raise interest rates immediately and would probably wait until its next policy meeting on Nov. 15 to act. Early declines in gold and oil prices helped bolster the bond market. 
 The price of the 30-year bond rose 16/32 , to 96. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 7.85 percent, from 7.89 percent on Wednesday. Traders said the price of the long bond was up as much 16/32 after the release of the producer price report before retreating later in the day. The Labor Department's report on producer prices -- the prices that manufacturers and farmers charge for the products they sell to retailers, distributors or other buyers -- suggested that the Fed's five increases in short-term interest rates this year may have begun to have some impact on inflation, analysts said. But other analysts saw yesterday's gains as merely one rally in a bear market. Greg Jones, an economist for MMS International, said the Producer Price Index report put off for now any promise of a tightening by the Fed, although there was still concern about more data coming out today, including September consumer prices, capacity utilization and retail sales. Analysts are expecting a gain of two-tenths of 1 percent in the Consumer Price Index and an increase of three-tenths of 1 percent in the index's core rate, which excludes the volatile categories of food and energy prices.
The market has a pattern of rallying into the consumer price report, Mr. Jones noted, but whether the consumer index is good or bad, the pattern also shows that bonds frequently stumble in a big way after it. Even if today's data are good for the bond market, analysts say sellers who emerge on uptick opportunities may limit the extent of the market move.
"There is always the chance that the Fed could still pull the trigger if the C.P.I. is ambiguously strong and inflationary," Mr. Jones said. However, the general market consensus suggest a more mixed outcome, with the Fed inclined to err on the side of restraint.
The Producer Price Index showed that prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers fell five-tenths of a percent in September. It was the index's largest dip in more than a year. The core rate rose one-tenth of a percent, much less than the market had expected. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg Business News were expecting a gain of one-tenth of a percent in the overall index and a rise of four-tenths of a percent in the core rate.
Donald H. Straszheim , chief economist for Merrill Lynch, in his market commentary, noted that while wholesale prices were likely to edge higher in the coming months, there were still no signs of an inflation pickup for finished goods.
Also released yesterday but largely ignored was a report on initial unemployment claims for the week ended Oct. 8, which declined a moderate 5,000 claimants, to 314,000. Analysts say the initial employment claims continue to show steady improvement in the labor market.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new one-year bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 94.216
Discounted Rate . . . 5.72%
Coupon Yield . . . 6.06%
High Price . . . 94.237
Discounted Rate . . . 5.70%
Coupon Yield . . . 6.04%
Low Price . . . 94.216
Discounted Rate . . . 5.72%
Coupon Yield . . . 6.06%
Accepted at low price . . . 71%
Total applied for . . . $50,977,620
Accepted . . . $17,013,366
Noncompetitive . . . $736,370
 
The one-year bills mature on Oct. 19, 1995.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent from June-Oct. '94. (Source: The Bond Buyer); "1-Year Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate in percent from June '93-Oct. '94. (Source: Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX PRODUCER PRICES (93%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); FOOD PRICES (74%); RETAILERS (72%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); RETAIL SALES (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT GREG JONES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



339 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Drops Against Mark, Settling at Seven-Week Low

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar fell to a seven-week low against the German mark yesterday, despite rallies in United States stock and bond markets.
Bonds surged in early trading yesterday, pulling the dollar higher, after the United States Labor Department said the Producer Price Index fell an unexpected five-tenths of 1 percent in September. 
 The report eased investors' concern about inflation, which erodes the value of fixed-income investments. Stocks also gained, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 14.80 points.
Bonds retreated later in the day amid speculation that the drop in the producer prices was an aberration and that today's reports on consumer prices, retail sales and factory use would not bring the same easing of price pressures.
"We're not out of the woods yet on inflation," said Lisa Finstrom, currency analyst at Smith Barney Inc. "Producer prices are just one piece of the puzzle."
Currency dealers have been following the bond market closely this year to gauge foreign investors' appetite for American assets and the dollars needed to buy them. But the dollar's turnaround yesterday was much more severe than the retreat in bonds, in part because of a wave of selling of dollars by currency-trading funds, which control billions of dollars in capital in the foreign exchange market.
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar fell to 1.5283 marks, its lowest level since Aug. 23, and down from 1.5422 marks on Wedneday. The dollar rose as high as 1.5445 marks just after the producer prices report was released at 8:30 A.M. The dollar fell to 99.35 yen, from 99.77 yen on Wednesday.
The mark has been strong against other currencies this week, bolstered by expectations that Chancellor Helmut Kohl's coalition will win a clear majority in Sunday's federal elections.
Some traders and analysts attributed the dollar's losses yesterday to the currency's dismal performance so far this year, given the strength of the United States economy.
"The dollar has left people with a bad taste in their mouths," said Amy Smith, senior currency-market strategist at IDEA, a consulting firm. "It has no resilience. The dollar falls no matter what happens."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; STOCKS AND BONDS CURRENCIES (92%); BONDS (92%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); RETAIL SALES (54%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



340 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Latest Inflation Data Send Silver Prices Into Decline

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Silver prices skidded to a seven-week low yesterday after a Government report offered evidence that inflation was under control.
The Labor Department said the Producer Price Index, a measure of wholesale price inflation, fell a half-percent in September, the biggest drop in more than a year. 
 Inflation concerns were also calmed by the eighth straight daily decline in the Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodity prices. It slipped 0.20 point, to 227.54, reflecting lower prices for crude oil, wheat, cattle and gold, as well as silver.
"The higher interest rates are starting to have an impact on the economy," said George Milling-Stanley, a precious metals analyst with Lehman Brothers. The Federal Reserve Board has pushed up interest rates five times this year to thwart inflationary pressures.
Silver for December delivery fell 13 cents on the Commodity Exchange in New York to $5.385 an ounce, the lowest daily settlement for that contract since Aug. 26. December gold fell $2, to $388.60 an ounce.
Gold futures posted steep losses on Tuesday in anticipation of weaker inflation signals. With those expectations confirmed, traders are looking to today's consumer price report and the factory utilization report for further evidence of economic cooling.
But if consumer prices rose strongly in September, "it could undo everything done today," Mr. Milling-Stanley said. "If it's lower than expected, I expect there's still going to be downside pressure on gold and silver."
Meanwhile, crude oil futures fell on the New York Mercantile Exchange for the fourth straight day, despite a late rally. Light sweet crude for November delivery finished 6 cents lower at $17.13 a barrel after trading as low as $16.80.
Oil prices initially fell sharply on reports that American warships had intercepted a Greek tanker suspected of trying to smuggle Iraqi oil past a United Nations embargo, but they later rebounded.
Now that tensions in the Persian Gulf have eased, news from that part of the world is less of a market factor, Ric Navy, a vice president of Paribas Futures, said.
"The market is going to fight its way back to the fundamental type of arena," he said, referring to basic supply-and-demand factors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE INC (COMEX) LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE INC (COMEX) COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: SILVER; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INFLATION (95%); SILVER MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (92%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); MILITARY VESSELS (62%); NAVAL VESSELS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



341 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 6; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1958 words

HEADLINE: Where Antiques Reflect The Latest Fashions

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
WHEN the International Fine Art and Antique Dealers Show first opened in Manhattan six years ago, droves of Europe's top dealers leaped at the chance to exhibit at the Seventh Regiment Armory. Since most of their best customers were Americans, the chance to give them shop-at-home service seemed irresistible.
And it was. For the first time, America had a showplace that rivaled Grosvenor House in London, Maastrict in the Netherlands and the Biennale in Paris. This year's fair, which opens today and runs through Thursday, still ranks with those extravaganzas. Viewers have a chance to see objects as varied as a third-century A.D. Roman glass bottle for $120, a 1944 Picasso oil for $435,000 and a $3.5 million Chinese bronze. It's also a place to follow current fashions in collecting. (Asian art is hot right now; so are Continental furniture and animal jewelry.) 
 The show has also come to be known as the event that kicks off the fall art and antiques season. Besides a number of smaller antiques shows being held around the New York metropolitan area this weekend, the auction houses are showing such big-name collections as those of Alice Tully, Henry Francis du Pont and Bertram K. and Nina Fletcher Little.
But despite its clout, the show is not aging gracefully. While most of the 78 dealers have brought rare and handsome objects, many seem just a bit too familiar. The art business has traditionally depended on high-class recycling, and this season what's been going around seems to have landed at the armory. A number of objects on display this year have been on the market recently.
It's understandable. As the number of art and antiques shows has grown faster than the economy, the dealers' mission to keep producing fresh offerings is getting noticeably tougher. Harder still is the problem of timing. This year, the show is sandwiched between Grosvenor House (which was in June) and the Paris Biennale (which opens next month). Few dealers who participate in more than one of these events have the financial muscle to keep bringing new pieces to each fair.
But money is only part of the problem. Fewer truly extraordinary pieces are coming on the market, since people who don't have to sell would prefer to wait until prices start rising again.
"Just because something has been around doesn't mean there's anything wrong with it," said Anna Haughton, who with her husband, Brian, organizes the show. "If the quality is high enough to be in the Biennale or in Maastrict, we don't see it as a problem. Each show has a different crowd."
Those who missed Grosvenor House will be able to see some of its highlights. From Pelham Galleries in London, there is a pair of 17th-century Neapolitan cabinets, circa 1675, with 50 painted glass panels, each depicting scenes from such literary sources as Ovid's "Metamorphoses" and Virgil's "Aeneid." "Grosvenor House is the only other place they've been shown," said Alan Rubin, the owner of Pelham.
Some pieces have had far more exposure. A rectangular commode of rosewood and lemon wood with inlays of ivory, jade, soapstone and Chinese lacquer, stamped R.V.L.C. (which stands for Roger Vandercruse called La Croix) and dated 1755, has been seen at Michel Meyer's shop in Paris, at Didier Aaron's gallery in London and at an antiques fair in Monte Carlo. Now it's on view at the armory in the Paris furniture gallery Perrin, one of this year's first-time exhibitors. Patrick Perrin, one of the directors, confirmed that the piece is owned jointly by a group of Paris furniture dealers. "It's very special," he said. "It was in the collection of Marie Antoinette."
Another commode, this one semicircular and intricately inlaid with different woods, once belonged to J. P. Morgan. It is believed to have been made by Christoph Furlough, cabinetmaker to the Prince of Wales, in the 1770's and 80's and is on view at Mallett of London. "We sold it and have taken it back," said Henry Neville, Mallett's junior director. "It's been on and off the market for about eight years now." At one time, the piece was also owned by Glenn Randall, the Newport dealer.
Some works have been bought recently at auction. Two pieces at the New York porcelain dealer Chait, a Tang Dynasty horse and a large iron figure dating from 1120 A.D., were auctioned at Sotheby's in New York in June. "Great things are getting scarce," said Ralph Chait. "I always like to sell, but the problem is I no longer know how I can replace the objects."
Mr. Chait is in good company this year. Asian art is represented in many forms. Among the star pieces is an 18th-century Chinese bronze vase inlaid with silver and gold at Earle D. Vandekar, a New York dealer. Even more extraordinary is a green patinated bronze horse and chariot from the second century A.D. at the booth of Robert Ellsworth, a New York dealer. The piece is related to the famous flying horse excavated from a tomb in Gansu, a province in northern China. The price, $3.5 million, doesn't seem to worry the dealer. "I have people panting to buy it," Mr. Ellsworth said. "And hopefully they'll give it to a museum."
Khalil Rizk, owner of the Chinese Porcelain Company in Manhattan, calls this "the year of Asia." He believes the renewed interest in Asian art is linked to the opening of the Irving Galleries for the Arts of South and Southeast Asia at the Metropolitan Museum this summer and the exhibition of Asian art from the Rockefeller collection that opened last week at the Asia Society in Manhattan. Mr. Rizk's booth is devoted to Famille Verte porcelain of the Kang-hsi period. There is an interesting selection of objects: miniature figures of Chinese boys, a wine pot and cover with rectangular panels that depict figures standing in a trellised garden, a plump toad with bulging eyes and bowls with many decorations. "Famille Verte is wonderfully old-fashioned," said Coner Mahony, president of the Chinese Porcelain Company. "It's for people with refined taste."
Doris Wiener, a private New Yorkdealer who is participating in the show this fall for the first time, has a spectacular booth of Southeast Asian art. "Ever since the Vietnam War, the interest in Southeast Asia has grown steadily," she said. At the entrance to her booth is a Ganesha, a Hindu god with an elephant's head and a little boy's chubby body, dating from the seventh century A.D., which she bought from a private collection in England. "Ganesha was the remover of obstacles, the god of wealth and of literature," Ms. Wiener said. "He was one of the favorite deities."
While Asian art has proliferated this season, the number of serious paintings and drawings has declined. Since the show's organizers began the super-successful International Fine Art Fair: Renaissance to Impressionism in Manhattan last May, a number of dealers have opted to show paintings in that more specialized venue. Among the few fine-art dealers left, one of the most impressive small booths belongs to Mark Brady, a New York dealer. One of his star pieces is a 1784 portrait of Jonas Brooke by Hugh Douglas Hamilton from Mere Hall in Cheshire, England. "It's one of the single greatest pastels by Hamilton," Mr. Brady said. "The last great one on the market went to the National Gallery in Washington." Mr. Brady bought the pastel recently from the country-house sale at Mere Hall held by Christie's in May. Even the frame is special, intricately carved with acanthus vines interwoven with a beaded ribbon and carved florets.
Some of the smaller booths are easy to miss, but walk carefully, for they hold some treasures. Among them are two newcomers: David and Constance Yates from New York City and G. Sarti from London. The Yateses, who specialize in 18th- and 19th-century European drawings and sculpture, are showing a group of bronze plaques, many made to be mounted on furniture, designed by Alexander Charpentier, a French sculptor and decorative artist. The booth also features a plaster bust by David D'Angers depicting a man in pain. "This was the first glimmer of Romanticism in French sculpture," David Yates said. "It won the Prix de Rome in 1811. We have four museums in line for it."
G. Sarti has a 16th-century Roman marble table richly inlaid with trophies and geometric motifs.
Less exotic, but always a staple of the show, are the several dealers who carry Continental and English furniture. At Didier Aaron, the New York dealer, there's an opulent Austrian giltwood armchair circa 1790. And the London dealer Ciancimino has a selection of objects ranging from a pair of drop-dead gilt-bronze hall lanterns, circa 1800, from Corby Castle in Cumbria to a fine Regency bookcase. "I'm worried because things are getting so much more expensive; I hope collectors will understand," Jean-Claude Ciancimino said. "The old-timers are overstocked; they've been buying so much for so long. And whether there's a new crop of potential clients, well, that remains to be seen."
 
 
For Browsing or Buying
 Here is a sampling of auctions and antiques shows taking place over the next few weeks in the New York metropolitan area:
 
Antiques Shows
 
INTERNATIONAL FINE ART AND ANTIQUE DEALERS SHOW, Seventh Regiment Armory, Park Avenue and 66th Street. More than 78 dealers. Hours: Daily through Wednesday, 11 A.M. to 8 P.M.; closes at 6 P.M. Thursday. Admission: $15 a day. Information: (212) 382-0969.
 
FALL ANTIQUES SHOW AT THE PIER, Pier 92, Berths 5 and 6, Hudson River and West 52d Street, Manhattan. A preview on Wednesday, 5:30 to 9:30 P.M., is a benefit for the Museum of American Folk Art; tickets: $150 to $500 in advance; $175 to $525 at the door. Show hours: Thursday and next Friday, 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.; Oct. 22, 11 A.M. to 8 P.M.; Oct. 23, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission: $10 a day. Shuttle buses will offer free round-trip rides to the pier from the Museum of American Folk Art, Columbus Avenue at 65th Street, with a stop at the museum shop at 62 West 50th Street. The buses begin a half-hour before the show opens, with the last to leave the pier a half-hour after closing. Information: (212) 777-5218.
 
ST. IGNATIUS LOYOLA CHURCH, Park Avenue at 84th Street. About 50 dealers. Today and tomorrow, 11 A.M. to 8 P.M.; Sunday, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission: $10 a day. Information: (212) 288-3588.
 
TRIBAL ARTS SHOW, Metropolitan Antiques, 110 West 19th Street, Chelsea. About 50 dealers offering items from Africa, Asia and North and South America. Oct. 21 to 23. Hours: Oct. 21, 6 to 9 P.M.; Oct. 22, 10 AM. to 6 P.M.; Oct. 23, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission: $15 on Oct. 21; $5 on Oct. 22 and $3 on Oct. 23. Information: (212) 463-0200.
 
LONG ISLAND ANTIQUES SHOW, Planting Fields Arboretum, Oyster Bay, L.I. More than 35 dealers. Hours: tomorrow and Sunday, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission: $5 per day; proceeds benefit the North Shore University Hospital at Glen Cove's Community House. Information: (516) 926-8852.
 
Auction Houses
 
CHRISTIE'S, 502 Park Avenue, at 59th Street, Manhattan. Sale of fine English and French furniture and objects of art from the Winterthur residence of Henry Francis du Pont: today, 10 A.M.
 
Viewings of jewels from the Alice Tully collection: today, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; tomorrow, 1 to 5 P.M.; Monday and Tuesday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Sales on Wednesday, at 10 A.M. and 2 P.M., and on Thursday, at 10 A.M. Admission to viewings and sales is free. Information: (212) 371-5438.
 
SOTHEBY'S, 1334 York Avenue, at 72d Street, Manhattan. Viewings of folk art from the Little Collection: Sunday, 1 to 5 P.M., and Monday through Thursday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Sales on Oct. 21, 2 P.M., and Oct. 22, 10:15 A.M. and 2 P.M. Admission to the viewings and sales is free. Information: (212) 606-7171.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A seventh-century stone figure of Ganesha, the elephant-headed deity, on view at the International Fine Art and Antique Dealers Show. (Doris Wiener Inc.); A large Chinese bronze vase, inlaid with silver and gold, from the 18th century or
earlier. (Earle D. Vandekar of Knightsbridge) (pg. C1); An Austrian giltwood armchair, circa 1790, at the antiques show. (Didier Aaron) (pg. C34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); NETHERLANDS (88%); FRANCE (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: PARIS BIENNALE (62%); NEW YORK (83%); GROSVENOR HOUSE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (83%); GROSVENOR HOUSE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); NETHERLANDS (88%); FRANCE (78%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES; INTERNATIONAL FINE ART AND ANTIQUE DEALERS SHOW; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (91%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CITIES (66%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



342 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: On the Graying of Japanese Consumers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Peter Passell expresses concern in his Oct. 6 Economic Scene column over White House failure to have a Japanese trade agenda. Mr. Passell says the few Clinton Administration members who understand the "importance of fiscal and monetary measures in balancing trade" have "given up trying to explain the point to Congress or the public." 
 Then you report (Business Day, Oct. 7) that "natural forces could eliminate Japan's huge trade surplus." To expect the aging of Japan's public to fix the Japanese-American trade imbalance would be a sanguine mistake and would buy the Japanese time to tighten the trade noose. What we need is a policy and a strategy to counter the Japanese, who realize that exchange rates fluctuate widely and are using the situation to their advantage.
As the Japanese purchase raw materials from the United States, cheap greenbacks benefit a Japanese economy in its early stages of recovery. Cheap dollars also mean that yen invested in the United States are well spent.
By allowing the Japanese to produce locally, capital investments in the United States also dampen the adverse effects of exchange rate swings. While the Japanese jockey for position in the trade war, you report that Americans need only wait for the Japanese to grow old, at which point they will blow their life savings on American goods.
Meanwhile, Tokyo may transfer the new income tax break into a sales tax, selectively exercising more control over what the Japanese will spend their savings on.
If Americans realize this and demand a numerical rise in imports of American-made goods (President Clinton's abandoned policy), the Japanese will be ready to comply. They will be able to import American-made, but Japanese-owned, goods. This will satisfy Japanese internal corporate pressures and also meet American-mandated quotas.
Well, the White House made some progress after all in opening Japanese markets to the American insurance industry, and this should allow our insurance sales people to use their marketing savvy by selling Japan's senior citizens Hondas built in Tennessee.
 
THOMAS HARTIGAN
Cos Cob, Conn., Oct. 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; AGED LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SALES TAX (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); SALES FORCE (69%); INSURANCE (66%); TRADE DISPUTES (66%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (61%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: HARTIGAN, THOMAS BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



343 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Misconstrues Anti-Bias Laws Affecting Gay People

 BODY:
To the Editor:
When George E. Pataki, the Republican candidate for New York governor, suggests in your Oct. 10 interview with him that laws prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation provide "special rights" to lesbians and gay men, he displays misunderstanding of civil rights law. Such laws promote equality and help eliminate bias that causes quantifiable economic and personal harm. 
 Mr. Pataki's concern that gay people could win discrimination claims by proving that an employer's work force did not reflect the percentage of gay people in that community is wrong. Anti-bias laws require that employees be judged on their performance, not on sexual orientation.
Mr. Pataki's attempt to characterize civil rights protections for gay people as "special rights" recalls the misinformed rhetoric that 1960's civil rights opponents used to argue against race discrimination protections. Civil rights laws protect all, regardless of sexual orientation.
So, when Mr. Pataki hints that an employer will have to lay off a heterosexual or a closeted gay person, rather than a gay person, to protect against a lawsuit, he is again wrong. His statement that the person whose sexual orientation is unknown to the employer "is not a member of the protected class" reflects a misconception.
 
SUZANNE B. GOLDBERG
Staff Attorney, Lambda
Legal Defense and Education Fund
New York, Oct. 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LAMBDA LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: LAMBDA LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOMOSEXUALITY; DISCRIMINATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); DISCRIMINATION (91%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); LAWYERS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); GOLDBERG, SUZANNE B WHEN GEORGE E PATAKI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



344 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Misconstrues Anti-Bias Laws Affecting Gay People;
For Tax Cuts, and Soon

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Oct. 6 news analysis on the tax cut plan of George E. Pataki, the Republican candidate for New York governor, perpetuates the myth that tax cuts lead to decreased government revenues and that tax increases lead to increased government revenue, a myth disproved by New York's fiscal reality. 
 New York is one of the highest taxed states in the Union, yet it has one of the poorest debt ratings. Obviously, high taxes have not been a fiscal salve.
The relationship between tax rates and revenue is not direct, but it is simple. Government revenue is related directly to economic activity and seems historically to bear little relationship to tax rates, high or low.
According to your reporting, the Federal Government's revenue base has held steady between 19 percent and 21 percent of gross national product each year over the last 30 years despite wild gyrations in tax rates and policies.
While tax rates have little evident impact on government revenue, they have shown a powerful influence on economic activity. We need only observe that the tax cuts under Presidents Kennedy and Reagan were immediately followed by periods of sustained, noninflationary growth.
High tax rates erode the tax base when economically mobile individuals and corporations choose to leave the state. Just look at the rash of companies and jobs that have moved to New Jersey, Connecticut and almost every other state over the last 12 years.
New York's population has stagnated while the rest of the country has grown, and a larger fraction of today's New Yorkers are poor. This trend will only accelerate as the information age brings economic mobility to more and more workers and businesses. How much can New York afford to cut state taxes? To use a cliche, we can't afford not to.
 
PAUL J. MOTTOLA
Mahopac, N.Y., Oct. 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BONDS (71%); RELOCATIONS (65%); POPULATION SIZE (54%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); MOTTOLA, PAUL J EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



345 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: For MCA's Japanese Parent, No Signs Yet of Letting Go

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Matsushita's responses to the prospect of selling its Hollywood film and entertainment company, MCA Inc., have ranged from the poetic to the cryptic, but they have always conveyed the same meaning.
"Matsushita has purchased a beautiful and tasty apple," Tsuzo Murase, the executive in Osaka, Japan, who oversees the movie operation, said in March, when rumors were circulating that the parent company, the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company, was considering selling a stake in MCA to John C. Malone, the powerful cable television executive. "If half the apple is cut and sold, the remaining half would not be as tasty." 
 Now it is the two American executives who actually run the movie and entertainment business, MCA and its Universal Pictures unit, who might want to buy a slice of the apple. And Mr. Murase's response, in telephone conversations on Thursday night and today, was to reiterate the general principle that MCA was not for sale.
That stance could change, presumably, if Matsushita received an offer too good to refuse from MCA's chairman, Lew R. Wasserman, and president, Sidney J. Sheinberg, who are said to be considering resigning if Matushita does not accept their terms.
And Matsushita might also have second thoughts if the company concluded that MCA and Universal would have little value without the creative talents of Steven Spielberg, the filmmaker, and David Geffen, the head of MCA's record unit, who intend to start their own movie and entertainment company with the former head of Walt Disney Studios, Jeffrey Katzenberg.
But from the beginning, when it bought MCA for $6.1 billion in 1990, Matsushita has viewed its investment in the American company as a long-term proposition, not subject to the vagaries of year-to-year financial results or the comings and goings of specific executives.
"We thought this would be a great asset or treasure for us in the 21st century, when we see the multimedia age," Mr. Murase, an executive vice president, said in the March interview. "We do not have any intention of selling part or all of MCA and I can make a very clear statement about this."
In the telephone interviews on Thursday night and today, he said nothing to contradict that position. Mr. Murase said Matsushita was unaware of the purported intentions of the two MCA executives and could not comment in detail.
"This news broke really suddenly," he said today. He said a Matsushita official in the United States had contacted MCA executives and had received a response suggesting that some of the reports from Hollywood were speculative.
"We haven't confirmed their position very clearly," he said, referring to the MCA executives. But he added that the initial message "suggests not to worry too much."
Mr. Murase said MCA had a banner year last year, largely because of Mr. Spielberg's blockbuster film "Jurassic Park," and that this year looked to be even better.
Industry executives in Hollywood said Wednesday that Mr. Wasserman and Mr. Sheinberg were chafing under the ownership of Matsushita, a conservative consumer electronics manufacturer. They said the two MCA executives would meet next Tuesday with Matsushita officials to discuss the future of MCA.
Susumu Ishihara, the head of public relations for Matsushita, said on Thursday that he was surprised by the reports that the MCA executives might want to buy the company. "We never heard that kind of complaint directly from them," he said.
Mr. Murase said today that he did not think there would be a meeting next week between Matsushita and MCA executives, although a quarterly executive committee meeting was scheduled for around the end of this month.
Mr. Murase and Mr. Ishihara said they could not comment on what stance Matsushita would take if it was indeed confronted by demands to sell all or part of MCA.
Mr. Wasserman and Mr. Sheinberg might be backed in a bid for the company by Mr. Spielberg, Mr. Geffen and Mr. Katzenberg. But in any event, some of the possibilities discussed in Hollywood on Wednesday could mean trouble for Matsushita.
Mr. Wasserman and Mr. Sheinberg have run the company together for 22 years, so their departure would leave a vacuum. Mr. Geffen is likely to leave MCA next year. And Mr. Spielberg, who is responsible for many of Universal Studios' greatest hits, is now likely to distribute his movies through his own new studio.
Matsushita executives seemed remarkably nonchalant on Thursday about the developments, but said they still needed information on the events in Hollywood. Mr. Ishihara said he did not think company officials had even met today to discuss the reports of unrest in the MCA ranks. In mid-afternoon trading today on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Matsushita's stock was down 20 yen, to 1,670 yen.
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday, American depository receipts of Matsushita closed at $169.50, down 37.5 cents.
Mr. Murase said today that the fact that Mr. Spielberg was starting his own studio did not necessarily mean that Mr. Spielberg's relationship with Universal would worsen. He said Mr. Spielberg already distributed some of his films through other studios.
Matsushita bought MCA after its archrival, the Sony Corporation, purchased Columbia Pictures for $3.5 billion in 1989. Both Japanese companies thought the entertainment "software" business could provide higher profit margins than the intensely competitive, and now largely saturated, consumer electronics appliance business. They also thought that there would be synergies between the hardware and the software business.
But the synergies have been sparse, and analysts still debate whether the Sony and Matsushita purchases in Hollywood were worth the billions spent on them.
In the interview last March, Mr. Murase acknowledged that there had been initial difficulties in the relationship with MCA executives because of a lack of understanding and common culture. But he said the executives had "learned to know each other better."
As for the synergies between hardware and software, Mr. Murase said he was confident that they would develop over time.
"We wanted to be exposed to the latest developments in technology in the U.S. by purchasing an American company," he said.
MCA is only a small part of Matsushita, which makes video recorders, television sets, washing machines, rice cookers, telephones, robots, semiconductors and many other products that are sold under the brand names Panasonic, Technics, National and Quasar.
And yet MCA remains a financial bright spot at a time when Matsushita has been hit hard by the recession in Japan, the rise of the yen and the lack of new hit products. Matsushita's earnings have declined for three consecutive years, though there are now signs of an upturn.
In the fiscal year that ended on March 31, the company's entertainment business, of which MCA is the main part, contributed 586.8 billion yen, or roughly $5.7 billion, which is about 9 percent of the total consolidated revenue of $64.3 billion. Operating profits in entertainment were 23.2 billion yen, or $225 million, about 13 percent of the total operating profits.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 1994, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Friday about the response of the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company to a proposed purchase of the company's entertainment subsidiary, MCA Inc., misidentified the head of MCA's record business. He is Al Teller, chairman and chief executive; David Geffen is the chief executive of Geffen Records, also owned by MCA.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Matsushita at a Glance" shows various statistics for Matsushita Electric Industrial Company. (Sources: Company reports, Hoover's Handbook)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6752 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO; MCA INC; UNIVERSAL PICTURES PANASONIC CORP (92%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO; MCA INC; UNIVERSAL PICTURES

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); OSAKA, JAPAN (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; SPIELBERG, STEVEN; GEFFEN, DAVID; KATZENBERG, JEFFREY STEVEN SPIELBERG (78%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (58%); DAVID GEFFEN (58%); JOHN MALONE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994



346 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: California's Woes on Aliens Appear Largely Self-Inflicted

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Gov. Pete Wilson, condemning the failure of Federal immigration policy, is pushing the Clinton Administration to declare an "immigration emergency" and reimburse the state for what he calls a "multibillion-dollar problem."
Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat who is running for re-election, is calling for a $1 border toll to raise money for stronger border enforcement. 
 And polls show that Californians, convinced that their state is being overrun by illegal immigrants who are draining the state's coffers, seem likely to pass a ballot proposition that will deprive illegal immigrants of health, education and welfare benefits, which the Governor's office says will cost California $3.2 billion this year.
But a close examination of the record shows that to a significant degree California has brought its immigration problems on itself. Policies promoted by the state's leaders in the 1980's actively encouraged illegal immigration into California, and as a result hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants came.
Now some of the same leaders are complaining that public money is being used to treat those immigrants in hospitals, send their children to school and incarcerate illegal aliens who commit crimes. Governor Wilson, for example, has endorsed the proposition on ending benefits, while Ms. Feinstein has not yet taken a position, saying she is still studying its costs.
Reflecting on California's earlier policies, Leslie Goodman, the Governor's deputy chief of staff, ruefully acknowledged that "in some ways there have been self-inflicted wounds."
Ten years ago, the mood in California could not have been more different. "The attitude of the time," said Alan C. Nelson, a Californian who was then Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, "was that illegal immigration was O.K."
In fact, in 1984 and 1985, city councils in Los Angeles, San Francisco and many other cities around the state and the country passed resolutions and ordinances declaring their cities to be sanctuaries for illegal immigrants from Central American countries that were regarded as centers of repression supported by the United States.
"We told them, 'You guys are sending a signal that will be heard all over the world,' " recalled Harold Ezell, who was the Western commissioner in the Immigration and Naturalization Service at the time. " 'Just get here to California, and it'll be a free zone.' And that's exactly what happened."
But those were only the first of several decisions that helped cause some of California's problems today. In 1986 Mr. Wilson, then a Senator, and others from the California Congressional delegation held up passage of the Immigration Reform and Control Act until a provision was added to allow several hundred thousand immigrants into the country temporarily so that they could help harvest crops. Under the provision that eventually resulted, more than one million came to stay.
Two weeks ago, Attorney General Janet Reno, irritated by Mr. Wilson's continued attacks on the Administration's immigration policies, shot back, saying, "It is very, very important that we understand that Governor Wilson and others during their time in the Senate fostered some of the illegal immigration that we're now trying to deal with."
Mr. Wilson's response was instant, and bitter. He called her comments "a shameful attempt to turn the spotlight away from the Clinton Administration's total failure to secure our border."
No accurate records exist to document the flow of illegal immigration. The only approximate measure is the number of illegal aliens apprehended by the Border Patrol.
Presumably, this figure increases when the number of people trying to cross the border goes up. And in 1985 and 1986 the number of illegal aliens apprehended along California's southern border increased by 45 percent -- to 724,842 in 1986 from 499,291 in 1985. That was the largest one-year increase ever.
It was late in 1985 when San Francisco began considering creating a "sanctuary," declaring that police officers and city employees were not to bother illegal immigrants from El Salvador and Guatemala -- or to help the immigration service to find or deport them.
"We begged them," recalled David Ilchert, then director of the San Francisco office of the I.N.S. "We told them they would be inviting illegal immigration. Even as the resolution was being debated, we were apprehending aliens who said they'd heard about it in Central America."
But San Francisco passed the resolution and Ms. Feinstein, then Mayor, signed it -- reluctantly, her allies say now.
In Washington, meanwhile, Senator Wilson was pushing to include a "guest worker" provision in the immigration reform bill being debated in 1985. He proposed to allow 350,000 aliens into the country temporarily to help with harvests.
House Democrats balked at that idea -- worried, they said, that temporary workers would be exploited. But without a farm worker provision it was clear that Mr. Wilson and the other members of the California delegation in Congress would not vote for an immigration bill.
So a small group of House Democrats drafted a substitute plan -- the Special Agricultural Worker, or SAW, program. It offered legal residency to immigrants who could prove they had been agricultural workers. As legal residents, the reasoning went, the immigrants would be less subject to exploitation.
Mr. Wilson, his former aides say now, was not entirely comfortable with that plan. "But I remember him coming into the room and telling us he was going to support it," said Representative Howard L. Berman of California, a Democrat who was one of the authors of the plan.
Governor Wilson declined a request for an interview. But Ms. Goodman, his aide, said: "To say he had huge objections to the SAW program, no he didn't. He wanted a migrant worker program."
Congress passed the immigration bill with the SAW program. Afterward, Mr. Nelson, the immigration commissioner, said he "got into a jousting match" with Mr. Wilson over efforts to put the plan into effect. To be eligible for residency, aliens had to prove that they had been agricultural workers in the recent past. Mr. Nelson wanted immigrants to provide that proof before allowing them into the country.
Mr. Wilson opposed that. In a letter to President Ronald Reagan, the Senator said crops were rotting in the fields while the I.N.S. carried out "burdensome SAW application procedures." Immigrants should be allowed into the country on their word alone, he wrote, and required to present proof only later. Mr. Wilson prevailed.
In the end, the farm worker program became the catalyst for widespread fraud. To become a legal resident, an alien had only to present any letter or document, real or forged, showing that he had been an agricultural worker. And across the state, vendors began selling forged documents to immigrants.
Under the SAW program, about 1.6 million people applied for legal residency, though farmers had said they needed only about 350,000 workers. About 1.1 million immigrants won legal status under the program, and most of them moved to California.
Wayne Cornelius, an immigration expert at the University of California at San Diego, said the farm worker program "had a powerful stimulating effect on family migration." Many newly legal residents brought their spouses and children with them and moved to cities in California.
But the program did not offer legal status to these spouses and children. So hundreds of thousands of family members became illegal immigrants, "and these women and children were the ones most likely to use state health and education services," Mr. Cornelius said.
At the time, those new immigrants were welcomed and protected. San Francisco in 1989, after Ms. Feinstein had left office, passed an ordinance forbidding police officers or city officials from assisting in the enforcement of Federal immigration law.
And Bill King, then a regional officer for the I.N.S in California, said, "The cooperation between us and law enforcement just disappeared for a while."
Since then, attitudes have changed, partly in response to a 1990 Federal law that said certain Federal law-enforcement funds would be withheld from cities that did not cooperate with the immigration service in the search for aliens with criminal records.
But the real change came when hard economic times hit California several years ago. With an illegal immigrant population now estimated by the Federal Government at 1.8 million in California, Ms. Goodman said Governor Wilson began to see how much the social services were costing.
Looking at all of that now, Mr. Cornelius, the immigration expert at San Diego, said: "Absolutely, this is partly a self-inflicted problem. And here we are in this morass today."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ;IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); ; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; ELECTION ISSUES; REFERENDUMS; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ; AGRICULTURE; MIGRANT LABOR; FORGERY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; LAW AND LEGISLATION ; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); NATURALIZATION (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REFUGEES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ORDINANCES (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); CITIES (62%); COUNTERFEITING (59%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL ; EZELL, HAROLD; NELSON, ALAN C; WILSON, PETE (GOV) DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



347 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: U.S. IS DEMANDING A QUICK U.N. VOTE ON IRAQI PULLBACK

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Risking a Russian veto, the United States pressed today for a quick vote on a Security Council resolution requiring Iraq to pull back its troops from the Kuwait border. It warned that it might attack Iraq with or without the Council's support.
The Security Council plans to meet on Saturday to continue consultations on Iraq. They were adjourned this evening after the Clinton Administration formally introduced its resolution. 
 Brushing aside Russia's pleas to delay the vote until next week, the chief American delegate, Madeleine K. Albright, delivered a tough message to Council members: While Washington would prefer to have the Council behind it, it is prepared to take punitive action alone against President Saddam Hussein if the resolution fails.
And President Clinton, in an interview with The Washington Post, warned today that he would do "whatever is necessary" to force Iraq to remove its military units that remain near the Kuwaiti border. In addition, The Post reported, he expressed irriation with Russia for trying to negotiate the easing of sanctions against the Iraqis.
The draft Security Council resolution, jointly sponsored with Britain, would condemn the recent Iraqi troop deployments and demand that those forces return immediately to their original bases. It would also order Iraq to cooperate fully with United Nations inspectors now monitoring Iraqi weapons stocks and production.
Sir David Hannay, Britain's chief delegate and this month's Security Council president, declined to speculate on Russia's intentions beyond saying that it was willing to continue discussing the measure now on the table. As a permanent member of the 15-seat Council, Russia, like the United States, France, Britain and China, can veto any resolution.
American officials insist that they are not bluffing in putting the Russian delegation on the spot. Since elite Iraqi troops moved south a week ago, the Clinton Administration has contended that it has the authority to take punitive action under the 1991 cease-fire resolution that ended the Persian Gulf war.
The United States seems intent on keeping maximum pressure on the Iraqi leader, militarily as well as diplomatically, so that elements of two or possibly three Iraqi units are not left in their new positions. The Iraqis insist that they had pulled back all their troops by Wednesday night, but American officials repeated today that several thousand elite Iraqi troops were digging in near the southern city of Nasiriya.
Visiting Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, Defense Secretary William J. Perry warned today that the United States would take military action if Iraq did not complete its pullback. "If these forces stay in the south, we will expand our current deployment plan and take appropriate action to deal with this threat," he said.
Russia has been struggling for days to broker a deal under which Iraq would recognize Kuwait's sovereignty and the United Nations would respond by lifting economic sanctions within six months.
Russia's Foreign Minister, Andrei V. Kozyrev, left Iraq for Kuwait today after talks with President Hussein that the Russians called a breakthrough on the issue of Kuwait's recognition. Mr. Kozyrev is expected to arrive in New York on Sunday night to report to the Council early next week, when Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, is also due here.
The Clinton Administration says that Mr. Kozyrev and Mr. Aziz are primarily pursuing talks on the recognition of Kuwait and the embargo on Iraq oil sales, while the American resolution focuses strictly on the renewed threat President Hussein has posed in the gulf region.
Many diplomats here expressed skepticism about President Hussein's assurances to Mr. Kozyrev that he would recognize Kuwait, saying that the communique circulated by the parties after the talks in Baghdad was vaguely worded. In the communique, Iraq "confirmed its readiness to resolve the problem of the recognition of Kuwait's sovereignty and border with it in accordance with the U.N. Security Council's Resolution 833."
In The Washington Post interview, President Clinton expressed irritation with Mr. Kozyrev's statement. The President said that Mr. Kozyrev's finding good intentions on the part of the Iraqis was not consistent with conversations that Mr. Clinton had this week with President Boris Yeltsin, The Post reported.
The Security Council has demanded that Iraq must go beyond statements of intent. It requires formal action by President Hussein conveyed to the United Nations and approval of his action by Iraq's Revolutionary Command Council, which declared Kuwait to be Iraq's 19th province in 1990. Much work remains undone, diplomats here noted.
The joint Russian-Iraqi statement appears to confirm that Iraq is still seeking to link Kuwait's recognition to a Russian promise to get the sanctions partly lifted in six months, when the weapons monitoring system set up by the United Nations in Iraq has been fully tested.
"Following Iraq's official recognition of Kuwait's sovereignty and borders," said the communique, quoted by the Itar-Tass news agency, "Russia will support an official commencement of long-term monitoring in accordance with U.N. Security Council Resolution 715 and a simultaneous start of a limited 'deadline' period, which in the opinion of Russia should not exceed six months, to check monitoring efficiency, after which the U.N. Security Council would decide on the enactment of Point 22 of Resolution 687 -- fully and without additional conditions."
Paragraph 22 allows for the end of the embargo on "commodities and products originating in Iraq." In other words, Iraq could again sell oil, though under some continuing United Nations restrictions.
The American draft resolution does not raise the prospect of lifting economic sanctions. There has also been discussion of a possible clause that would require Iraq to notify the United Nations Secretary General two weeks in advance of any unusual troop movements in the future, a United States official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); WPO (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); KUWAIT (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (68%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; MIDDLE EAST; KUWAIT; RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); KUWAIT (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (68%); GULF STATES (58%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VETO (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE (AMB) ; CROSSETTE, BARBARA; KOZYREV, ANDREI (MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



348 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CAMPIGN STOP;
In One Democratic Suburb, Allegiance to Cuomo Erodes

SERIES: Campaign Stop: Long Beach, L.I. - A periodic report on reaction to the New York gubernatorial race.

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LONG BEACH, L.I.

 BODY:
A great divide has opened up in this densely Democratic Long Island city, sundering Democrat from Democrat, and setting off a small fissure one recent afternoon in the offices of Station Realty.
Four brokers were jawing about the governor's race -- about the governor they had voted for in the past and about the Republican running against him with the help of the home-grown United States Senator from the neighboring town. 
 "If the good Senator is supporting him, he must be a good man," said Bill Baer, one of the brokers.
"To me, anybody the Senator would back is suspect," said Ellie Hanen, another broker.
"Time for new blood," Mr. Baer said.
"Even if it's bad blood?" Ms. Hanen said.
"I'm willing to take that chance," Mr. Baer said.
Long Beach is the kind of place that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has been able to count on -- a slice of barrier island moored off Long Island's south shore, a longtime haven for weary urbanites slipping out of New York City with their liberal values and Democratic habits in tow.
But this year, even Long Beach voters are in turmoil. After 12 years, many are tired of Mr. Cuomo. They fear for the future of Long Island, with its job losses and high tax and utility rates. They worry that the quality of their lives is fraying, that their children and grandchildren will move away.
So Mr. Cuomo is there constantly these days, talking about Long Island's favorite issues, like defense conversion and jobs -- and, on Thursday, proposing a state take-over of the Long Island Lighting Company in an attempt to lower its notoriously high electricity bills (for which he regularly gets blamed).
The voters' disaffection is bad news for Mr. Cuomo, because Long Island is considered crucial to his chances of re-election. He must win heavily in New York City and at least hold his own in the suburbs if he hopes to match his opponent's strength upstate and in the more conservative suburbs.
But in interviews in Long Beach, many Democrats said they would be voting Republican. It's not that they really believe that the Republican candidate, State Senator George E. Pataki, will lower their taxes, as promised. And it's not that they especially dislike Mr. Cuomo. They just want to try something new.
"He's been around long enough," said Stuart Klar, 52, a Democrat, longtime Cuomo voter and father of three who runs a sports-memorabilia store in the town's West End. "I really totally believe that he's done whatever he can possibly do. There's nothing else he can do."
Even the Lilco announcement failed to win over some skeptics. The early-morning coffee club at Patty Cake's Bakery scoffed at the news. "We all had a good laugh over that," said Joseph Gluck, the bakery's owner. "Everybody was unanimous that this guy had some gall to bring it up now. The State of New York run a utility? Every politician and his mother would have somebody working there."
The coffee club notwithstanding, Mr. Cuomo will probably still carry Long Beach. Democrats outnumber Republicans here by a ratio of 3.3 to 1. In past races, Mr. Cuomo has received from Long Beach voters two to three times the votes cast for his closest competitors. And many people here still see Mr. Cuomo as a man of convictions with an oratorical gift (instead of a blowhard), or as a seasoned leader (instead of a pol who has overstayed his welcome).
But the margin of victory is expected to be narrower than before. Not only is Governor Cuomo paddling against an anti-incumbency riptide, but also Mr. Pataki has the backing of Mr. D'Amato, the Republican who carried Democratic Long Beach in his last Senate race, despite a strong Democratic opponent.
"This is the most fragile time I've seen for Governor Cuomo since his primary with Ed Koch 12 1/2 years ago," said Eugene Cammarato, chairman of the Long Beach Democratic committee. "You see apathy, not the enthusiasm you should see when you have your Governor running."
Long Beach is a Democratic enclave in a Republican county, once heavy with Jewish and elderly residents. But many of them have died or moved South; younger people and families have moved in.
During the 1980's, this was the one Long Island community that got younger. The average age dropped from about 40 to 36, and the average income went up. After selling off a school to a developer, the school district found itself suddenly forced to start building new elementary-school classrooms.
In the town's West End, single-story bungalows squat shoulder to shoulder along narrow streets. On their concrete patios, the marigold is king. Farther east, the neighborhoods grow more affluent. Along the south shore, high-rise apartments and condominiums tower over the boardwalk and shimmering beach.
In coin laundries and law offices and beauty parlors and the surf shop, in backyards and at bus stops and heading home from work, Long Beach residents talked in recent days about the Governor's race. They appeared to be deeply split, not only among but occasionally within themselves.
Those who still like Mr. Cuomo after his three terms in office described him as a man of experience, intelligence and backbone -- perhaps a victim of economic forces beyond his control, but the candidate most capable of leading the region and state out of lingering doldrums.
"He's a man for the people," said Jack Leinwand, 85, a retired accountant walking his Lhasa apso, Pepper, by his waterfront condominium. "They say he's raised taxes. Well, it's true. So has the Federal government. If people want their services, they've got to pay for it."
But others, many of them Democrats, had soured on Mr. Cuomo. They blamed him for their taxes and utility bills, for job losses, crime, empty storefronts, even for the time they had wasted stuck in traffic because of repairs being done on multiple Long Island highways all at once.
Some said they now favor capital punishment, which Mr. Cuomo opposes. "Everybody's getting away with too much," said Karen Negri, 44, a drug-store employee. "I'm tired of supporting all the people in jail. You read about the TV's, and the crime guy who's getting the special meals."
Others accused Mr. Cuomo of neglecting Long Island. Mr. Klar at the sports store suggested that the Governor had favored Albany. "There's more shopping malls in Albany than all Nassau County," said Mr. Klar, who until recently owned a log cabin upstate. "He looks out for it. That's where he spends his time."
But most of all, people blamed Mr. Cuomo for sticking around too long. They said he had run out of new ideas and innovative fire. Some accused him of rigidity and arrogance, and said the same was true for the people around him.
"Being an old businessman, I think it's time for a change," said Morris Murray Fried, 79, an auctioneer, sitting at a cluttered desk in a warehouse jammed with old furniture and housewares. "Because after you're entrenched in certain jobs for a number of years, you're lackadaisical."
Mr. Fried said he had voted for Mr. Cuomo twice. "It's nothing against him personally," he said. "I think he's a fine gentleman. And you never hear any scandals about him." Mr. Fried said it mattered little that he knew almost nothing about Mr. Pataki: "I just want a clean sweep."
Few people seemed to know much about Mr. Pataki -- though that seemed often to be working to his advantage. As for his promise to cut the income tax rate by 25 percent, some Long Beach residents seemed willing to suspend their disbelief, while others laughed out loud.
"Come on, give me a break," said Darrol Block, the owner of David's Family Jewelers, where he said business is down by two-thirds over what it was five years ago. "How can you do that? To bring an economy back on line, there have to be tremendous incentives to businesses."
Tommy Lee, 39, a Republican who works in repossession, agreed. "It's ridiculous," he said. "I don't feel a tax cut is what the state needs. It just needs control and accountability. If they did that, everybody would be happy to pay their taxes. They would go to sleep saying, 'It's a bargain!' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ellen Hanen: Real-estate broker - "To me, anybody the Senator would back is suspect."; Stuart Klar: Shop owner - "I really totally believe that he's done whatever he can possibly do." (Photos by Steve Berman for The New York Times) (pg. 24)
 
Graph: "Long Beach" shows Long Beach, L.I.'s population, by race, its party affiliation, election results from '90 Governor's race, the median household income and the number of resident over 25 with a high school diploma (Sources: 1990 Census, Nassau County Board of Education) (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (81%); NG (LSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (81%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (81%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; LONG BEACH (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); SURVEYS AND SERIES; VOTER BEHAVIOR; ELECTION ISSUES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; JEWS REAL ESTATE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); SUBURBS (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%); TAX RELIEF (65%); UTILITY RATES (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (65%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); SCOTT, JANNY MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



349 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 84 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Modest Rise in Prices
Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in September, as reports showed an economy that remains robust, although its pace is slowing. Page 37.
 
Subway Repairs Delayed
 With costs hundreds of millions more than anticipated, renovations at six major New York stations have been indefinitely postponed. Page 21.
 
Optimism on Korea Talks
 The United States was hopeful of reaching agreement with North Korea to freeze its nuclear arms program in return for fuel aid. Page 7.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



350 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 
Reports on consumer prices, retail sales and industrial production showed an economy still expanding at a robust, but slackening pace, while price pressures remained moderate. Consumer prices rose two-tenths of 1 percent in September. Retail sales climbed six-tenths of 1 percent, and industrial production was flat. [37.] 

Many working women feel they are not getting the pay, benefits or recognition they deserve, a new Government survey shows. [9.]
 
Companies
 
Shopping with a Visa card from a home computer may be made as secure and simple as using a credit card at a store under a system to be introduced by a start-up company, First Virtual Holdings of San Diego. The system is initially intended for the selling of electronic documents and other information. [37.]
Fox continued to be on the defensive as a partner backed down from its original plan to buy four television stations. The partner, SF Broadcasting, said it would restructure the financing of the company after a challenge from NBC. [37.]
AST Research plans to cut jobs by 10 percent and close a factory as it struggles with a price war in personal computers. [37.]
Nestle is now looking to expand through new markets for its foods and drinks after a decade of large acquisitions. [37.]
The F.C.C. settled a dispute involving Motorola's satellite project. The decision is a step toward approving global satellite systems that would relay calls via hand-held wireless telephones. [37.]
Toys "R" Us said it would stop selling any toy gun that could be modified to look like the real thing. [9.]
A takeover of Lilco by New York State could be good for rate payers and good for the company, which faces an uncertain future if it loses it monopoly status. News Analysis. [24.]
 
International
 
The chairman of the Russian Central Bank resigned, a day after saying that the ruble's plunge was no reason for him to quit. [3.]
 
Markets
 
Stocks advanced. Chemical issues were strong gainers, while some technology stocks fell. The Dow closed up 20.52 points. [38.]
The dollar weakened against other leading currencies, falling to 1994 lows against the mark and the pound. [45.]
Orange juice prices surged amid concern that dry weather in Brazil was damaging the world's largest orange crop. Coffee prices, however, fell on a report of rain in a Brazilian state. [45.]
Treasury securities rose for a second day on buying encouraged by the report on consumer prices. [48.]
 
Your Money
 
The increase in the Consumer Price Index means, for one, that some 50 million people who receive Social Security and other Federal benefits will receive 2.8 percent more next year. But the index affects virtually every citizen in some way. [35.]
The tax paperwork for hiring nannies would be streamlined under a bill passed by Congress last week. The bill comes a year and a half after Zoe Baird's nomination for Attorney General was derailed by her failure to pay taxes for two household workers and after a public uproar for changes in the complex law. [35.]
Investors can make a straight bet on interest rates with interest-rate-based options. These options -- which are keyed to the 13-week, 5-year, 10-year and 30-year Treasury yields -- include no rights over Treasury securities. The rate is all. [35.]
Low-cost checking accounts will be mandatory in New York, under a rule passed by state regulators. Such basic, or "lifeline," banking accounts are already required in several states. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (55%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (54%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MESSAGEMEDIA INC (57%); NESTLE SA (55%); TOYS 'R' US INC (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); COFFEE MARKETS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); STARTUPS (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); WOMEN (73%); FOOD MFG (72%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (71%); PLANT CLOSINGS (67%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (67%); COFFEE (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); ORANGE GROVES (64%); LEGISLATION (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



351 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Up Modestly

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Consumer prices rose modestly in September while retail sales climbed and industrial production slowed, the Government reported today.
Over all, the unusually heavy batch of figures portrayed an economy still expanding at a robust, but perhaps slackening, pace, while price pressures that have developed in various areas remained bottled up before reaching consumers. But even if that outlook continues, the Federal Reserve is still expected to raise short-term interest rates another time this year in an attempt to hold growth and inflation in check. 
 "We've got a healthy economy on our hands," said Joan D. Schneider, an economist in Chicago for BA Securities Inc., an arm of the Bank of America. "And we haven't seen the inflation rate yet pick up."
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 20.52 points, to 3,910.47, while the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond dropped to 7.83 percent from 7.85 percent. [Pages 38 and 48.]
Retail sales climbed six-tenths of 1 percent in September and sales were revised somewhat higher for July and August, the Commerce Department reported. The Federal Reserve found industrial production unchanged last month as the operating rate of factories, mines and utilities declined for only the second time since mid-1993.
The report on inflation, which followed Thursday's unexpected decline in prices received by the nation's producers, showed the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers rose two-tenths of 1 percent last month.
As a result of the inflation report, some 50 million Americans receiving Social Security and other Federal benefits will get 2.8 percent increases for 1995, the third-slimmest cost-of-living raise since the payments were automatically coupled to inflation in 1975. [Page 35.]
The average monthly benefit for all retired workers is to rise $19, to $698, with an elderly couple who both qualify for benefits getting a $32 increase, to $1,178, the Social Security Administration calculated.
The Labor Department reports two consumer price indexes, the Consumer Price Index-U, for all urban consumers, and the Consumer Price Index-W, for all urban wage earners and clerical workers, which rose one-tenth of a percent last month.
The index for all urban consumers is the more widely followed of the two but the index for urban wage earners and clerical workers is used to calculate increases in the Federal benefit programs.
The impending 2.8 percent raise reflected how much the Consumer Price Index-W rose between the July-September quarters of 1993 and 1994.
The September increase of two-tenths of 1 percent in the more widely followed Consumer Price Index came after three straight months in which it climbed three-tenths of 1 percent. The so-called core rate, which leaves out the wide-swinging food and energy components, also rose two-tenths of 1 percent.
Over the last 12 months the index has advanced 3 percent, the performance of its main elements ranging from a 4.7 percent increase for medical care to a decline of three-tenths of 1 percent for clothes.
A downturn in energy prices last month was the chief reason for the slightly lower September advance but a stabilization in coffee prices, up about 22 percent in each of the two preceding months, also contributed. Gasoline and airline fares fell but the price of new motor vehicles rose five-tenths of 1 percent -- they were lower in the Producer Price Index -- while used cars rose 1 percent.
Automobile finance charges rose an additional 2.2 percent, to a point 15.6 percent higher than at the end of last year, the Labor Department's report also showed.
In the New York metropolitan area, one of five regions for which September figures were reported today, prices edged down one-tenth of 1 percent and now show a 2.4 percent rise over the latest 12 months.
The retail sales tally showed that consumers spent $188.43 billion in stores last month, six-tenths of 1 percent more than in August and 8.1 percent more than in September 1993. These figures are adjusted for seasonal and holiday differences but not for inflation.
Sales of durable goods climbed 1.1 percent, with home furnishings up 1.4 percent, automotive up six-tenths of 1 percent and the building materials-hardware-mobile home category up 1.6 percent.
In nondurables, up three-tenths of 1 percent over all, sales rose five-tenths of 1 percent at stores selling general merchandise, two-tenths of 1 percent at food stores, 1.1 percent at gasoline service stations, 1 percent at bars and restaurants and three-tenths of 1 percent at drugstores. The only decline was at stores selling clothing and accessories, where sales dropped 1.5 percent last month.
This retail spending, which accounts for about one-third of economic activity, was aided by a four-tenths of 1 percent rise in real average weekly earnings last month, the Government also reported.
The Fed's figures on industrial production, which include factories, mines and utilities, showed a slackening in production, with factory output up just one-tenth of 1 percent after a 1 percent August gain. A brief strike at General Motors was a negative factor but when motor vehicles and parts are excluded the gain was still just two-tenths of 1 percent.
Motor vehicle assembly was at a 12-million-unit annual pace, down from 12.3 million in August, and appliance production was down for the second straight month.
Output at mines and utilities each posted a third straight decline.
The operating rate for industry edged down to 84.6 percent last month, two-tenths of a point lower than in August and the first decline since April.
But analysts seemed not to find this persuasive evidence that the progressively greater strains on industry this year have eased.
"It doesn't change my overall impression that the amount of excess capacity as well as skilled and semiskilled workers is essentially used up," said Kelly K. Matthews, chief economist at the First Security Corporation in Salt Lake City.
Calculations by the Social Security Administration today showed a widowed mother with two children getting a $37-a-month increase, to $1,365; an elderly widow or widower $18, to $656; a disabled worker with a spouse and at least one child, $30, to $1,118.
A couple on Supplemental Security Income for needy aged, blind or disabled people will get an $18 increase in their monthly maximum, to $687.
A year ago it was announced that the average retirement benefit would rise $17, to $674, but the benefit actually turned out to be $679, today's report showed. A spokesman said the extra $5 reflected more higher-income people retiring during the year, one in which taxes were raised, than had been estimated.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Retail Sales" shows total retail sales from April 1993 to Sept. 1994. (Source: Commerce Department); "Industrial Production" shows index of total industrial production from April 1993 to Sept. 1994. (Source: Commerce Department); "Capacity Utilization" shows total output and a percentage of capacity from April 1993 to Sept. 1994. (Source: Federal Reserve Board); "Consumer Prices" shows percentage change in consumer prices from Oct. 1993 to Sept. 1994. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 48)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); INFLATION (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); SOCIAL SECURITY (86%); COST OF LIVING (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); BONDS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); INTEREST RATES (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); CITIES (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



352 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: WELCOME;
Joyous Haitians Decorate The Capital for Aristide

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Oct. 14

 BODY:
With the return of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the country's exiled President, just a day away, Haiti was swept by a wave of joyous anticipation and a sudden burst of energy today as people across the country poured their efforts into preparing a welcome for their leader.
Security precautions for Father Aristide's Saturday arrival were also being stepped up, with American troops taking the lead role. 
 Apparently fearful of retribution from the populace, the police assigned to at least five stations here fled their posts today, which allowed jubilant crowds to gut and sack the buildings and post pro-Aristide posters on the mustard-yellow walls.
Throughout the capital, people were painting tree trunks, walls and light posts in stripes of red and blue, the national colors, and putting up posters of Father Aristide. Many others picked up shovels, rakes, brooms and hoes to clean their neighborhood streets, or climbed trees to trim branches, a symbol of Father Aristide's Lavalas movement, for use in demonstrations planned for Saturday.
As these ordinary people worked to prepare the city for the arrival of their leader, many sang once-popular songs that were banned by the military dictatorship but have begun reappearing on the radio in recent days. Others chanted slogans praising Father Aristide, or broke into impromptu dances when other pro-Aristide groups riding on the backs of pickup trucks passed by and honked their horns, applauded or raised clenched fists.
"Everything is going to change; everything is going to get better," said Solange Joseph, one of those who was mixing work and celebration by stringing bunting along Avenue John Brown, a main thoroughfare in the capital. "Our father is coming home at last, and we want to be ready for him."
Some residents said they felt it was safe to begin festivities only after they were certain that Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras and other military leaders had begun their exile in Panama, where they landed early Thursday.
"We had to make sure they were really gone," said Roger Clermont, who had joined a group of his neighbors in sweeping away debris. "We remember what happened last October." That was when General Cedras defied the United States and broke the Governors Island agreement requiring him to step down.
In the countryside, villagers were whitewashing trees, houses and small stones, which they arranged on smoothed-out patches of dirt along the roadside to spell out messages of welcome to their returning President and thanks to the American forces who made his restoration possible. Many of them proclaimed "Vive Titid," using Father Aristide's nickname, but "Merci, Americains" and "Thank You, Clinton" were popular choices too.
Gaily painted political murals in vibrant tropical colors also began appearing on walls. One, being painted by two adults and several children in the sprawling slum of Cite Soleil, an Aristide stronghold, showed an American soldier with his gun raised, a helicopter and a tank behind him, while in the background Father Aristide descended from the heavens on a cloud.
Tonight, in foretaste of the outpouring of emotion that is expected Saturday, euphoric multitudes took to the streets to dance, sing and wave branches. Even in the suburb of Petionville, a bastion of the economic elite that has always rejected Father Aristide and his gospel of social equality, elated crowds snaked their way up and down the cobblestone streets.
There was also a pronounced increase in the visibility of American troops and weapons on the streets, with tanks deployed at intersections and many more patrols than usual stationed on corners. It was not clear, however, whether the increased military presence was intended to protect Father Aristide from possible attack or to discourage his followers from too exuberant a response to his return.
"I am confident that our presence will deter the enemies of democracy from any disruptive acts," said Col. Barry Willey, a spokesman for the 19,000 American troops here. "But my personal belief is that if they test us, they will regret it."
Colonel Willey also said Haitian police and army units, which overthrew Father Aristide in a coup on Sept. 30, 1991, and have been blamed for widespread human rights abuses since then, "will be present" on the streets Saturday. He said the Haitian forces would be armed, but added that they would be accompanied by international monitors.
At least five police stations, including two in Cite Soleil and another in a neighborhood called Bel Air, were abandoned by the Haitian police today and quickly attacked by local residents, who smashed furniture, broke down iron doors and, in one case, dug up the yard looking for bodies. At the main police station downtown, American soldiers blocked the entrance to prevent looting, but said the crowds milling around were friendly.
Concerns about the security of Father Aristide and other members of his government have grown since Lieut. Gen. Hugh Shelton, commander of American troops here, said two Haitian Army colonels appeared to have dropped from sight and might be organizing an anti-Aristide underground.
A reminder of the dangers Father Aristide will face once he returns was sounded this morning at a memorial Mass for Guy Malary, his former Minister of Justice. Mr. Malary was assassinated a year ago today by gunmen believed to be in the service of the military, and his death, which also signaled the final collapse of the Governors Island agreement, became a symbol of the brutality of the dictatorship.
Under a large framed photo of Mr. Malary, the Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, who delivered the homily at the Mass, urged all Haitians to be patient and promised that the abuses of the past would not be repeated.
"Deliverance has begun for those with faith who have been waiting," he said. "Many have fallen, but their blood has not been spilled in vain."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Haitians celebrated in the streets of Port-au-Prince last night on the eve of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide's scheduled return from exile today. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); Aristide supporters displayed pictures of him yesterday at the end of a memorial mass for Guy Malary, a pro-Aristide official killed a year ago. (David Scull/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PAINTING (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); ROHTER, LARRY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



353 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 20.52 as Data Show Modest Inflation

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
Blue chips led the stock market yesterday after a mixed bag of government economic reports for September indicated that inflation was under control.
The reports showed a rise of two-tenths of 1 percent in the Consumer Price Index, an increase of six-tenths of 1 percent in retail sales and unchanged industrial production. 
 Taken together, the reports showed the economy is still expanding but that inflationary pressures have not yet reached the level of consumers. While traders expect the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again this year, the reports confirmed that the Fed was unlikely to do so before its policy-making committee next meets on Nov. 15.
"The market spent most of the day trying to digest all of this economic news," said Gail Dudack, chief market strategist of S. G. Warburg & Company. "And the strength at the close was driven by earnings."
Weakness in the dollar helped to push the Dow Jones industrial average down as much as 11.44 points early in the session. But at the closing bell, the Dow was up 20.52 points, to 3,910.47, its first close above 3,900 since Sept. 19 and a significant gain in what has traditionally been the worst month for the stock market.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index increased 1.31 points, to 469.10, but the Nasdaq composite index dropped 0.81 point, to 767.08. The yield on the bellwether 30-year Treasury bond was 7.83 percent, compared with 7.85 percent on Thursday.
Declines narrowly topped advances on the New York Stock Exchange, 1,054 to 1,022. Total volume of 252.7 million shares was much lower than the previous day's turnover of 337.9 million shares and also under the three-month daily average volume of 282 million shares.
Chemical stocks were strong yesterday, as third-quarter earnings reports were buoyed by overseas sales. Union Carbide advanced 1, to 33 3/4, and Du Pont increased 3/4, to 59 1/4.
In contrast, some technology stocks eased, like Novell, off 1/8, to 16, and Cyrix, off 1/16 , to 37 5/8. Microsoft fell 15/16 , to 5515/16 , after announcing that it had agreed to acquire Intuit for $1.5 billion in stock, largely because of ears that Microsoft's earnings might be diluted. Intuit, however, surged 17 1/8, to 67 3/8.
Alcoa jumped 3 5/8, to 87 -- fueled by soaring aluminum prices that moved to a four-year high -- and contributed almost 10 points to the gain in the Dow. I.B.M. was another cyclical on the upside, rising 7/8, to 73 1/8. And Long Island Lighting climbed 1 1/8, to 17 5/8, a day after New York State proposed to take over the utility.
AST Research declined 1 1/2, to 10 3/4, after an announcement that it expected a fiscal first-quarter loss. Colonial Group, which is scheduled to be bought by the Liberty Financial Companies yesterday reported lower third-quarter earnings and fell 1 1/4, to 35 3/4. Acclaim Entertainment, which on Thursday announced higher fiscal fourth-quarter earnings, nevertheless declined 15/16 , to 17 1/2, on a day that one analyst lowered the company's rating and another reduced earnings estimates. And Dallas Semiconductor dropped 1 5/8, to 13 3/4, after reporting third-quarter earnings just a cent below analyst estimates.
In Tokyo, stocks finished lower after four days of gains. The Nikkei index of 225 issues closed down 179.54 points, or nine-tenths of 1 percent, at 19,969.29. For the week, the Nikkei gained 224.54 points.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); AAI (ASX) (51%); AA (NYSE) (51%); INTU (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (51%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: S G WARBURG & CO LTD (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); NOVELL INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); ALCOA INC (51%); INTUIT INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



354 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Warns Iraq to Complete Pullback

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: KUWAIT, Oct. 14

 BODY:
The United States will take military action against Iraq if it does not complete the withdrawal of Republican Guard forces from southern Iraq, Defense Secretary William J. Perry said today.
He said intelligence reports confirmed that "a major part" of a division of Republican Guard troops was digging in near Nasiriya, a southern city along the Euphrates, instead of returning to their base farther north. An Iraqi division numbers roughly 10,000 troops. 
 The Defense Secretary said it was not clear whether the Republican Guard troops were planning to stay near Nasiriya or resume their northward movement. But he added that the unit was still too close to Kuwait and would enable Iraq to intimidate the small Persian Gulf nation.
"We cannot accept that deployment, which we consider threatening and destabilizing," Mr. Perry told reporters today in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, before departing for Kuwait. "Indeed, if these forces stay in the south, we will expand our current deployment plan and take appropriate action to deal with this threat."
Asked to elaborate, Mr. Perry said simply, "We're talking about military action."
The threat to strike at the Republican Guards and expand the American troop deployment in Kuwait well beyond the 30,000 marines and Army troops already planned came as Russia continued its efforts to work out a diplomatic compromise. Russia has been seeking a deal that would not only spare Iraq from American air strikes but would lead to a lifting of economic sanctions.
Today Kuwait City was the scene of dueling agendas, with the Russian Foreign Minister, Andrei V. Kozyrev, flying here virtually on the heels of Mr. Perry to present Moscow's latest peace plan.
It is a familiar role for the Russians, who have long had military and economic ties to Iraq. Before the gulf war began in 1991, the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, sent Yevgeny M. Primakov on an unsuccessful quest to broker a compromise to avert the fighting.
Moscow has been pushing for the removal of economic sanctions that have remained in place against Iraq since the war ended. Because Iraq owes Russia $7 billion, Moscow would stand to gain from a United Nations decision to allow Baghdad to resume oil exports.
Under the latest proposal backed by Russia, Iraq would recognize Kuwait's sovereignty and allow United Nations weapons experts to continue their work if the Security Council agreed to remove the economic sanctions in six months.
Mr. Kozyrev said he had held a detailed discussion with President Saddam Hussein and that the Iraqi leader would soon issue a decree recognizing Kuwait's independence and sovereignty.
"Today I have brought good views to the people of Kuwait," Mr. Kozyrev said, "Russia now presumes that the hard page in relations between the two countries may be turned."
Mr. Perry brushed aside the Russian-brokered proposal again today, saying that Baghdad had to satisfy United Nations demands that Iraq eliminate its program to develop weapons of mass destruction and stop threatening its neighbors before sanctions could be eased.
For the American troops and the Kuwaitis, it is President Hussein's Republican Guard forces, not his promise to recognize Kuwait, that seem to be the main preoccupation.
For many of Mr. Perry's aides, today's trip was like traveling back in time to the months after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990.
Mr. Perry surveyed troops in Dhahran, a sprawling Saudi air base that was a key installation for American warplanes during the gulf war and one of Defense Secretary Dick Cheney's first stops four years ago. Like Mr. Cheney, Mr. Perry watched Air Force pilots ready their warplanes and Army troops set up their Patriot anti-missile batteries around the base.
In devising a plan to contain Iraqi military power, the Pentagon has tried to deal with the fact that it is far easier for Iraq to move forces to threaten its neighbor than it is for Washington to dispatch troops from 7,000 miles away.
One way the Administration has chosen to compensate is to send more troops and planes to the region.
When the Iraqis first began sending forces toward the Kuwait border at the beginning of this month, the United States had only a small number of planes at Dhahran with the ability to attack ground troops -- 18 F-16's. Counting British Tornados and Saudi warplanes, the forces allied against Iraq had only about 50 planes that could bomb Republican Guard troops during the early days of the crisis, according to Brig. Gen. William Michael Guth, the commander of the Air Force unit at Dhahran.
Another way to blunt the Iraqi threat is to push them back from Kuwait by establishing a buffer zone around the tiny gulf state. In explaining how such a zone might work, Mr. Perry said that all Republican Guard units would be required to withdraw north of the 32d parallel. If they went south, they would be subject to allied air attack.
Mr. Perry said today he did not think United Nations approval was needed to establish such a buffer zone but that important details needed to be worked out with allies. The Republican Guard forces near Nasiriya are right in the middle of the proposed buffer zone, some 50 miles south of the 32d parallel.
Speaking of the Iraqi deployment near Nasiriya, Mr. Perry said that the United States would withdraw the 30,000 ground troops it is planning to deploy to the region if Iraqi forces in southern Iraq returned to the positions they held in September.
"If the Iraqi forces return to their original location, we will terminate our deployment when it is completed, and shortly thereafter we'll start phasing a redeployment back to the United States," the Defense Secretary said.
He added, "No U.S. redeployment will begin as long as the Iraqi forces remain in a threatening or destabilizing position."
Mr. Perry even threatened to expand the American deployment beyond the 30,000 troops and 400 to 500 aircraft already planned, in an apparent warning that Washington could build up an offensive force to evict the Republican Guards from southern Iraq if necessary.
Another way to counter the Iraqi threat is to store equipment in the Persian Gulf area that American forces could use in a crisis. But that would require cooperation from Saudi Arabia and other gulf states.
Officials familiar with Mr. Perry's discussion with Saudi officials on Thursday said that the Saudis gave a noncommittal response to the idea of storing American tanks and other Army equipment in the kingdom.
Nor did the Saudis give a direct response to a proposal by Lieut. Gen. Richard Neal, deputy commander of the United States Central Command, that the United States and Arab troops hold a major land and air exercise in Saudi Arabia.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a vaguely worded communique issued with Russia, Iraq affirmed its "readiness" to recognize Kuwait in return for some relief from economic sanctions. Iraqi women sold food yesterday at a Baghdad market. (Reuters); Defense Secretary William J. Perry chatted yesterday with troops from the 24th Mechanized Army Brigade from Fort Stewart, Ga., at Camp Doha, about 12 miles from Kuwait City. Earlier he visited Saudi Arabia. (Pool photo by Corinne Dufka)
 
Map: Reports said Iraqi troops were diging in near Nasiriya. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: KUWAIT (98%); IRAQ (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (76%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; MIDDLE EAST; KUWAIT; ; RUSSIA; KUWAIT (98%); IRAQ (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (73%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (76%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); DESERT STORM (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (65%); 

PERSON: PERRY, WILLIAM J (SEC); KOZYREV, ANDREI (MIN) ; GORDON, MICHAEL R SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



355 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Treasuries Prices Rise For 2d Consecutive Day

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose yesterday for the second consecutive session after a Government report showed moderate inflation pressures at the consumer level in September.
The report on consumer prices provided the bond market with further evidence that the Federal Reserve would not need to raise short-term interest rates before the Fed's policy-making committee meets on Nov. 15. 
 "Price pressures are not yet showing through to consumers," said Eugene J. Sherman, director of research at M. A. Schapiro & Company in New York, adding, however, that "the operative word is 'yet.' "
The price of the 30-year bond rose 8/32 , to 968/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 7.83 percent, from 7.85 percent on Thursday.
The economic reports yesterday showed a rise of two-tenths of 1 percent in consumer prices, an increase of six-tenths of 1 percent in retail sales, no growth in industrial production and a decline of two-tenths of 1 percent in capacity utilization.
But Donald Fine, chief market analyst for Chase Securities, said, "These benign pieces of data are very likely temporary, particularly production and the rate of utilization, which should once again start to climb as the auto industry moves into high gear during the fourth quarter."
He said the increase in September retail sales strongly suggested an acceleration of economic growth in the fourth quarter. Sales were not only stronger than market expectations, but were once again led by the durable goods component -- a strong indication that higher interest rates have yet to make their impact on consumer spending.
"All of this clearly points to further Fed tightening," Mr. Fine said, "with the next move expected at the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Nov. 15, and more to follow thereafter."
Despite the positives in yesterday's reports, Mr. Sherman of M. A. Schapiro said, previous data have shown inflationary pressures intensifying. Among them, he said, have been capacity utilization rates, low unemployment rates, rising commodity prices, purchasing managers' reports and expectations for higher prices among both business people and consumers.
"The last point, being expectations," he said, "is important because price increases are easier to pass along if people are expecting them."
The market moved higher yesterday after the release of the Federal Reserve's report on industrial production in September, which was weaker than expected. But the flat figure follows a healthy gain of seven-tenths of 1 percent in August. Analysts said the report should not be read as a sign of the economy cooling off substantially.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: M A SCHAPIRO & CO INC (83%); PRICES OF TREASURY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PRICE INCREASES (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); DURABLE GOODS (68%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT EUGENE J SHERMAN (70%); DONALD FINE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



356 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Administration Reports a Breakthrough in North Korea Nuclear Arms Talks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Clinton Administration officials said today that they are on the verge of a "significant breakthrough" with North Korea that would permanently freeze its threatening nuclear weapons project and provide for a resumption of international inspections.
In return, the officials said, Washington is offering a number of concessions, including an agreement to assure the Communist Government a steady supply of coal and fuel oil, and later to arrange for America's allies in Asia to construct nuclear power plants in the North worth billions of dollars. 
 In another concession that could stir considerable criticism here and in South Korea, the Administration would agree to defer a special inspection of two sites that would likely reveal information about North Korea's past production of weapons-grade plutonium.
The West's insistence on such an inspection has been a central dispute with North Korea for a year and a half. The history of Washington's negotiations with North Korea has been filled with false starts, near agreements, collapsed negotiations and accusations. But American officials said they were convinced that this time there was reason for optimism.
"We believe we're on the edge of a possibly major agreement," said Winston Lord, the Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian Affairs, at a State Department symposium on economic cooperation in Asia.
Mr. Lord gave no details of the negotiations that have been underway for the past two weeks in Geneva between North Korean officials and an American team led by Robert L. Gallucci, the senior State Department official in charge of nonproliferation.
But other officials involved in the talks described the agreement in detail, and said that a final accord could be reached as soon as next week. "We are very, very close," one senior official said today.
Mr. Gallucci refused to give any details of the pending agreement to reporters in Geneva today, saying only, "We are going to continue meeting for a while."
Some American officials, however, speculated that the North could be attempting to complete the accord before the formal installation of Kim Jong Il as North Korea's paramount leader. Mr. Kim has apparently met little resistance to his taking the job since the death of his father, Kim Il Sung, in mid-July.
But the younger Mr. Kim has yet to assume several of his father's titles, an event that could take place as soon as the end of this month, when the 100-day mourning period for the elder Mr. Kim ends.
As described by American officials, a draft agreement being refined in Geneva calls for North Korea to permanently freeze operations of its five-megawatt nuclear reactor, whose waste fuel can be purified into weapons grade plutonium. It would also freeze the construction of two larger reactors that would have given the North a far larger supply of plutonium, the core ingredient of nuclear weapons, in coming years.
The North would also agree to full, regular inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency, whose inspectors have been barred from many sites since early last year, when the North threatened to withdraw from the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty.
North Korea would also would be required by the agreement to fully re-enter the treaty, which it first signed in 1985, the officials said.
But as part of the deal, the Clinton Administration also appeared ready to back down on a key demand, that the North send its recently acquired inventory of 8,000 nuclear fuel rods, enough to make four or five bombs, to a third country.
Instead, Pyongyang would be permitted to keep them in a cooling pond for a lengthy period of time, perhaps years. That would essentially create an insurance policy for the North, assuring that it would keep a supply of plutonium at hand in case the United States, South Korea, or Japan reneged on their parts of the agreement.
The accord now being made final would also apparently delay, perhaps for several years, a "special inspection" of a suspected nuclear waste dump that could reveal how much plutonium North Korea has produced in recent years.
The North has steadfastly refused to allow that inspection to take place, saying the site was a military facility unrelated to its nuclear program.
If the United States agreed to put off such an inspection, it would constitute a significant change of position for President Clinton and his aides. Since last year they have repeatedly said that such an inspection is a prerequisite for any comprehensive agreement.
South Korean officials, who have expressed sharp reservations in recent weeks about the wisdom of striking a deal with the North's new leadership, said in Seoul that they thought an agreement could come as quickly as this weekend.
Last week, in an interview with The New York Times, South Korea's president, Kim Young Sam, accused the Administration of naivete in dealing with the North, and said that the West should do nothing to prevent the Communist Government from an economic and political crisis that could sweep it from power.
Getting the South's full agreement to any deal with the North is essential, because Seoul would be stuck with much of the bill for aid to Pyongyang. The Adminstration is considering sending Defense Secretary William J. Perry to the South Korean capital next week, after his trip to Kuwait, China and the Philippines, apparently to try to sell the deal to South Korea's leadership.
For the North, the most important feature of the pending agreement is likely to be the assurance of a steady source of energy to keep its few remaining factories running. While there are no reliable measures of North Korean output, American intelligence agencies have estimated that half to two-thirds of North Korea's industrial facilities have ground to a stop, largely because of a lack of power.
Under the accord, the North would receive coal and fuel oil in sufficient quantity to make up for the power that would have been generated by the three nuclear power plants it has agreed to abandon. It is unclear who would provide the fuel, but experts speculate that most of it would come from the South, under terms that would not require the bankrupt Communist government to pay for it for years.
Pentagon officials have been concerned for some time that any fuel given to the North could be diverted to the military, worsening the threat to South Korea. State Department officials said that problem has now been resolved.
"The way we are structuring the deal, we are making sure the North does not get any fuel they can pour into their tanks," said one American official.
Over time, the North would also be provided with several light-water nuclear reactors, a type that produces waste that is far more difficult to convert into weapons-grade fuel.
The reactors would be financed and built by a consortium led by South Korea, whose leaders expect to make use of the facilities if the Korean Peninsula is eventually reunified. Japan would also invest heavily in the power project, but the United States, which is barred by law from providing aid to the North, has said it would not be a financial contributor.
The agreement also calls for a gradual upgrading of relations between Washington and Pyongyang, following the model used with Vietnam. If the North carries out its early agreements, officials said, the two countries would exchange liaison offices. But full diplomatic relations would remain years away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (54%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC ENERGY; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E KIM JONG IL (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



357 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Nestle's Aim: New-Market Growth

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: VEVEY, Switzerland

 BODY:
Nestle S.A., the Swiss conglomerate best known for its chocolate and coffee, is looking for further growth through finding fresh markets for its foods and beverages rather than through more costly acquisitions.
Nestle's purchase last month of Alpo, the American dog food brand, from its British competitor Grand Metropolitan P.L.C. was the latest in a string of takeovers that included the British chocolate maker Rowntree in 1988 and Source Perrier of France in 1992. More recently, Nestle bought Buitoni of Italy, and deepened its ties with L'Oreal, the French cosmetics group that Nestle hopes to control fully some day. 
 Helmut O. Maucher, Nestle's chairman and chief executive, is generally credited with having awakened a sleeping giant during his 13 years in office. He says that roughly two-thirds of Nestle's growth over the last decade came through acquisitions and one-third through internal expansion.
"In the next 10 years the ratio will reverse," Mr. Maucher said in an interview at Nestle's headquarters here near Lake Geneva. "We're in all the fields we want to be in."
Management experts say they like the focus of Mr. Maucher, who is noted for his strategic planning.
Nestle is a corporation with a "very clear business mission," said Fredmund Malik, a professor of management at the School of Business Administration in St. Gallen, in eastern Switzerland. Nestle had a "relatively well-manageable business," he said, adding, "For that reason, maybe, Nestle is no fashionable corporation."
Mr. Maucher, whose father worked for Nestle, joined the company in his native Bavaria in 1948, and worked his way up to chief executive in 1981. In December he will turn 67, well short of the company's compulsory retirement age of 72.
Under his stewardship, Nestle had sales totaling $39 billion last year. The company employs 209,000 people and does 98 percent of its business outside Switzerland, with 490 factories in 69 countries.
Nestle's cash flow -- it was $3.4 billion in 1993 -- and operating profits are daunting. Net earnings in the first half of this year amounted to $990 million. A disappointing growth in earnings of only 1.7 percent over the corresponding period in 1993 was largely caused by the strength of the Swiss franc, Nestle's accounting currency, which deflated revenues earned in strong markets like Germany or the United States.
Mr. Maucher estimated that 13 to 15 percent of Nestle's equity was held by American investors, generally through American depository receipts. Last February Nestle reversed plans to have its stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Its chief financial officer, Reto F. Domeniconi, attributed the change of mind partly to American reporting requirements, but the pressure placed on management by the scrutiny of quarterly reporting also annoys Nestle executives.
"If you're looking for a go-go stock, don't buy Nestle," Mr. Domeniconi said.
Still, some of Mr. Maucher's international competitors must envy Nestle's single-mindedness. Unilever N.V., the giant British-Dutch group whose food division competes with Nestle, has seen its management distracted by the Procter & Gamble Company's recent onslaught against Unilever's soaps and detergents. Philip Morris, another international player whose Kraft foods and Maxwell House coffee compete with Nestle brands in many countries, continues to be hobbled by controversy over its tobacco business.
Mr. Maucher is hardly averse to further takeovers. But the main impetus for future growth, he says, will come from geographical spread and internal expansion. This includes developing new products and adapting existing products in some markets to other untapped markets.
For example, Mr. Maucher talks about selling Buitoni pastas or Kit Kat chocolate bars in Japan or about making Maggi dehydrated soups, which are popular in Western Europe, in Slovakia. The trend in industrialized countries toward healthier convenience foods with longer shelf lives enables Nestle to extend its strong stable of brands like Carnation, Nescafe, Contadina and Buitoni.
For the moment, the strongest growth is coming from Nestle's geographic spread. Credit Suisse, in a recent report, estimated that Nestle's growth outside the mature North American and European markets was averaging about 15 percent a year.
The leading region is East Asia, where Mr. Maucher says the company's business is growing between 10 and 13 percent annually. Last year Nestle opened six new factories in Asia, among them plants to make dim sum in China and Kit Kat chocolate bars in Japan.
The revival of Latin America's economies has made the region Nestle's second-largest growth area, after Asia. And in Eastern Europe, Nestle has bought chocolate factories in Poland and the Czech Republic and is packaging Nescafe instant coffee and Nesquik chocolate in Hungary. To soften up the huge Russian market, it is importing instant coffee from its factories in India.
Analysts say Mr. Maucher has introduced an unaccustomed pragmatism into Nestle during his tenure, stifling distaste for deals with the competition by entering into successful joint ventures. Nestle now cooperates with General Mills Inc. to sell breakfast cereals like Cheerios in 25 countries outside the United States, cutting into Kellogg's market predominance in Europe and Asia. Over the last year, Nestle's cereal sales with General Mills have grown 24 percent, to $390 million.
Working with the Coca-Cola Company, Nestle sells soft drinks like Nestea iced tea and coffee in cans. Earlier, it formed a joint venture, called Clintec, with the Baxter Healthcare Corporation in the United States to develop hospital nutrition products.
Mr. Maucher's acquisitions have focused on Nestle's core businesses of food and beverages, where the goal was a commanding market share for Nestle brands. An illustration of this was Nestle's push into the mineral water business, where it became the world leader after taking over Perrier in France. Another buying spree in the United States acquired Arrowhead water in California and Poland Spring in Maine. As a result, Nestle now commands a quarter of the American market.
"Springs are like petroleum," Mr. Maucher said. "You can always build a chocolate factory. But springs you have or you don't have."
Perhaps less clear is what Mr. Maucher intends to do over the long term with Nestle's nonfood businesses, particularly pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. Nestle owns a profitable American manufacturer of eye care products, called Alcon and based in Fort Worth. It also holds a 49 percent share of the financial holding company that owns two-thirds of L'Oreal, the world's largest cosmetics group.
"In future I see these areas growing, and I say, 'Why not?' " Mr. Maucher said. "But food and beverages remain our priorities."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We're in all the fields we want to be in," says Nestle's chairman and chief executive, Helmut Maucher. (Agence de Presse)(pg. 39)
 
Graphs: "An Overview" shows Nestle's pricipal product groups, sales in principal markets and sales and net profits consolodated and worldwide in 1993. (Source: Company reports)(pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (96%); OR (PAR) (93%); OR (BIT) (93%); DGE (PAR) (72%); DGE (LSE) (72%); DEO (NYSE) (72%); NEW (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (96%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (93%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (72%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (72%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (72%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: VAUD, SWITZERLAND (73%); ST GALLEN, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: NESTLE SA NESTLE SA (96%); L'OREAL SA (93%); DIAGEO PLC (72%); NEW WORLD OIL & GAS PLC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NESTLE SA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); GERMANY (73%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (73%); ST GALLEN, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKET SIZE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (85%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (77%); PET FOODS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COSMETICS (73%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); TOILETRIES MFG (71%); CASH FLOW (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (65%); STOCK EXCHANGES (63%); RETIREMENT AGE (62%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (50%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



358 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Goldman, Sachs Lays Off 70

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Goldman, Sachs & Company said yesterday that it had let go 70 employees in its fixed-income and J. Aron commodities operations, or about 5 percent of the employees in those units.
"Due to the prolonged, industrywide turndown, some belt-tightening has been necessary," Goldman said in a statement. "Each business unit and office did its own reassessment and made small, selective staff reductions." 
 Goldman partners said last week that the firm planned to cut about 5 percent of its 9,200 employees. The 125-year-old firm, Wall Street's oldest and richest investment banking partnership, earned $2.3 billion last year before partners' taxes. Goldman is on track to earn $600 million to $700 million for the 1994 fiscal year, which ends next month, a partner said.
Goldman announced the cuts three days after it named 58 new partners, the largest group of new partners elected at one time to the firm.
Profits have dwindled at many Wall Street firms because of a rising interest rates and slumps on bond markets worldwide. A number of firms, including Merrill Lynch, Lehman Brothers, CS First Boston, Paine Webber and Smith Barney, have cut jobs this year.
Goldman dismissed about 56 people in New York and the rest in London. More cuts are expected in the firm's other divisions, which include equities and investment banking, a person familiar with Goldman's London operations said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS LAYOFFS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); BOND MARKETS (67%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



359 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: How to Preserve Buying Power Over Time

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Although inflation remains historically low, Cindy Anderson Malnati praises her lawyer for including cost-of-living adjustments in her 1984 divorce settlement.
Ms. Malnati, who is a business development manager for American Express and a 34-year-old mother living in Saddle Brook, N.J., now collects $73 a week in child support from her former husband for her son, Mitchell. Without the adjustment, "I'd still be getting $50 a week," she said. "It helps with the little extras you need in raising a teen-ager." 
 In fact, the cash income of tens of millions of Americans, from alimony recipients to corporate pensioners, climbs in step with the Government's Consumer Price Index or one of its 27 metropolitan-area offspring.
The report yesterday on consumer prices for September means some 50 million people who receive Social Security and other Federal benefits will get 2.8 percent more next year, compared with a 2.6 percent increase last January. (The increase is based on the difference between cost of living in the third quarter of this year and the quarter last year.) For Social Security recipients, the average monthly check will grow by $19, to $698, in January. [Page 37.]
But the index's impact is far more reaching, affecting virtually every citizen in some way. The Internal Revenue Service uses it to set tax brackets and personal exemptions. The index also plays a role in computing the poverty rate, the threshold on auto prices for the luxury tax and the household income cutoff for using savings bond interest tax-free to pay for college.
Private contracts covering apartment leases, royalties, alimony, prenuptial and child support agreements may also have escalator clauses linked to price increases. While any financially savvy person might ask for such a provision, the continuing debate over whether inflation is poised to accelerate provides extra incentive for considering this option. Through cost-of-living adjustments, commonly called cola's, people who receive regular payments of all sorts can preserve their buying power -- even if prices soar.
Adjustments for price increases have been modest in recent years. Inflation averaged just under 3 percent annually for the last three years, way down from about 11.5 percent at its peak in 1979-81, a fresh memory when Ms. Malnati's marriage dissolved.
"You still worry," said Gary Skoloff, partner in the Livingston, N.J., law firm of Skoloff & Wolfe, which negotiated Ms. Malnati's agreement. "You never know when the next wave is going to come."
Economists generally agree that inflation is headed higher, but probably to no more than 4 percent in 1995 from 3 percent this year. Even 4 percent inflation, however, halves buying power in 18 years, a conceivable stretch for alimony payments.
Cecile C. Weich, a New York lawyer who usually represents wives in such cases, says she almost always seeks cost-of-living adjustments, though she is not always successful. "The problem is getting the other party to accept it," Ms. Weich said, because the adjustment "ties the monied spouse to an upward modification without court review."
Sam Margulies, a professional mediator, and other lawyers who specialize in divorce, say men generally put up less resistance to adjustments for child support than to those for alimony payments, which may run for a long, indefinite period.
But adjustments linked to the price index do not necessarily favor the recipient. A wife or husband may want to tie increases instead to the partner's income, betting that person will become wildly successful. If an agreement calls for cost-of-living adjustments, it probably will not adjust for changes in personal fortune.
When it comes to child support pacts, states are under a Federal mandate to review them periodically, said Thomas M. Mulroy, a Pittsburgh lawyer who is a past chairman of the alimony committee of the American Bar Association. Such reviews not only preserve buying power, but also allow the child to benefit from any significant rise in a parent's prosperity.
For the security of annual increases, though, the contract should specify them. Ms. Malnati's increase, based on the New York area's Consumer Price Index rather than the national index, will be about $2 a week next year.
Despite the price gauge's popularity, economists caution that the index measures only prices and not, strictly speaking, the cost of living. It does not allow for substitution when, say, the price of steak rises sharply and people switch to hamburger.
Ms. Malnati cares little about such distinctions. "Most times, people wind up in court" with their former spouses to prevent inflation from nibbling at their standard of living, she said. "This is a more cooperative way to keep up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cindy Anderson Malnati will get about $2 a week more, or $75, in child support from her ex-husband. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 
Graph shows annual cost-of-living increases in Social Security benefits from '76 to '95

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: INCOME; COST OF LIVING; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX COST OF LIVING (91%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ROYALTIES (75%); BONDS (73%); TAX LAW (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); EXCISE TAX (69%); POVERTY RATES (67%); TAX AUTHORITIES (65%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR CINDY ANDERSON MALNATI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



360 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Drops to 1994 Lows Against Pound and Mark

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar tumbled yesterday to its lowest levels this year against the German mark and the British pound.
The dollar also fell sharply against the Japanese yen, dropping to 98.10 yen, from 99.35 yen on Thursday, in late New York trading. 
 Traders said the dollar was poised to fall yesterday because two days of gains in American stocks and bonds had failed to lift the currency.
"Yesterday, we had good news on inflation and big rallies in stocks and bonds, and the dollar still fell," said Paul Farrell, manager of strategic currency trading at Chase Manhattan Bank. "People in the market are nervous about that."
The dollar fell to 1.5171 marks in morning trading in New York. The dollar settled at 1.5202 marks, down from 1.5283 on Thursday. Yesterday's level was the lowest late New York quote since the dollar was at 1.5207 marks on July 11, and the lowest since the fall of 1992.
Better prospects for Chancellor Helmut Kohl's coalition Government in federal elections in Germany tomorrow helped fuel the mark's gains against the dollar.
The British pound, meanwhile, climbed to $1.5943 yesterday from $1.5887 on Thursday, its highest level against the dollar since April 1993.
And the dollar fell to a two-year low against the Swiss franc, at 1.2612 francs from 1.2842 francs.
Many traders said yesterday that they were baffled by the dollar's poor performance this week, given the rally in stocks and bonds.
"I'm perplexed," said Laurence Hayward, a trader at Nationsbank of Texas in Houston. "It makes no sense that we have a growing economy, low inflation and a dollar this weak."
The dollar is falling, said Jerry Egan, managing director of foreign exchange at MTB Bank, because so many people are convinced that no amount of good news will cause it to rally. Many traders have sufferedlosses this year betting that the dollar would rise. Based on yesterday's values, the dollar is down 12.5 percent against the mark and down 12 percent against the yen for the year.
The philosophy of many traders, Mr. Egan said, is, "if the dollar moves, sell it; if it doesn't move, don't buy it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: MTB BANK (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); BRITISH POUND (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ELECTIONS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (55%); HELMUT KOHL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



361 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: NEW YORK GOVERNOR;
Pataki Seeks Initiative but Skips the Debate

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 14

 BODY:
The Republican campaign of State Senator George E. Pataki sought to recapture the initiative against Gov. Mario M. Cuomo today by filing a lawsuit charging Mr. Cuomo with using state resources for political purposes, and by dismissing the Governor's proposed state takeover of the Long Island Lighting Company as a desperate campaign ploy.
But Mr. Pataki was notable for his absence at the first debate of the 1994 campaign, which featured Mr. Cuomo and four minor-party candidates. And he found himself an occasional target in absentia, with various candidates deriding his position on abortion and his lack of executive experience. Mr. Pataki is holding out for a one-on-one debate with Mr. Cuomo. 
 The debate, which was broadcast on a number of public television and radio stations around the state, was largely tame and orderly. While the minor-party candidates decried the state of the economy, crime and education in New York, they did not attack Mr. Cuomo personally. And the Governor was content to correct gently what he described as their misstatements, while allowing Mr. Pataki's competitors for the anti-Cuomo vote to gain statewide exposure.
Perhaps the biggest beneficiary was B. Thomas Golisano, a wealthy Rochester businessman who said he plans to spend up to $10 million of his own money on television and newspaper advertising. A state appeals court today unanimously affirmed a lower court's decision to place Mr. Golisano on the ballot as the candidate of the Independence Fusion Party, turning back a challenge by Republican officials.
Late this afternoon, the state's Republican Committee filed the lawsuit in State Supreme Court here, accusing Mr. Cuomo and members of his administration of using public resources to aid Mr. Cuomo's re-election effort in violation of the State Constitution. The suit asks that Mr. Cuomo stop such actions and also repay the state for the costs he has incurred.
In their court papers, the Republicans cite almost two dozen examples, many culled from newspaper articles, of what they call Mr. Cuomo's misuse of public assets. Those include: an early October swing through five cities by Lieut. Gov. Stan Lundine to attack Mr. Pataki's tax-cut plan; 13 instances this year in which Mr. Cuomo or his family have used state aircraft for personal trips or to attend campaign fund-raisers; and the use of the state budget office to analyze the Pataki tax-cut plan.
The Republicans also contend that Mr. Cuomo was wrong to take 11 aides on the public payroll to a 5-hour, 15-minute interview at The New York Times on Sept. 26.
"The Governor is pushing the envelope of what is ethical behavior," said John E. Sweeney, executive director of the state's Republican Committee.
Joel R. Benenson, a campaign spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, called the suit "politics as usual for George Pataki" and accused him of "wasting taxpayers' time and money with frivolous lawsuits."
Justice Lawrence E. Kahn of State Supreme Court signed a temporary restraining order sought by the Republicans to block Mr. Cuomo from using public property for campaign purposes. A hearing on the case is expected to be scheduled for next week.
Both sides agreed that the restraining order, which Mr. Cuomo was challenging, would have little immediate impact on the Governor's campaign. But they said the order, if allowed to stand, would enable the Republicans to take the Cuomo administration to court every time it does something that could be construed as political, from issuing press releases to analyzing Republican proposals to traveling to events.
"It invites mischief," said James Featherstonhaugh, Mr. Cuomo's lawyer.
The lawsuit was filed one day after Governor Cuomo announced a plan to try to buy Lilco for about $9 billion and reduce energy rates by about 10 percent for Long Islanders, who currently pay among the highest electric rates in the country.
Speaking to a group of Long Island business leaders in Uniondale, Mr. Pataki criticized the timing of the Governor's action as opportunistic so close to Election Day, but a plan he would consider all the same.
"Coming three weeks before the election, the Governor's proposal smacks of a politically desperate act," Mr. Pataki told representatives of local business organizations. "But we're going to look at it. We will do a detailed analysis of it, and if in fact it will benefit the people of Long Island, we're not going to put politics ahead of what should be the policy or principle of this state. We'd support a program that will in fact help the rate payers and people of Long Island."
The 90-minute debate tonight, filmed at the studios of WMHT-TV in Schenectady, included Mr. Cuomo, Mr. Golisano, Lawrence Lane of the Socialist Workers Party, Robert Schulz of the Libertarian Party, and Robert T. Walsh of the Right to Life Party.
Each of the minor-party candidates condemned the the state's level of taxation, crime, and welfare dependency, although each offered somewhat different prescriptions. Before addressing each subject, Mr. Cuomo returned to the previous one and offered statistics to rebut his opponents' assertions.
Mr. Golisano stressed his experience as chief executive of Paychex, a Rochester-based payroll processing firm, and said it was similar to the expertise needed to govern the state. He contrasted his experience with that of a legislator, without referring by name to Mr. Pataki, who has served in the Senate for two years and in the Assembly for eight.
"A legislator comes to Albany, works for three or four months a year, votes yes or no on several bills and then promptly returns to their home town and works on the next year's election and takes pork applications from some of its residents," Mr. Golisano said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, B. Thomas Golisano and Lawrence Lane preparing to debate yesterday in Schenectady. Robert Schulz and Robert T. Walsh also participated; George E. Pataki did not. (David Jennings for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (72%); NG (LSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (72%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (72%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (72%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) NATIONAL GRID PLC (72%); REPUBLICAN COMMITTEE (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) REPUBLICAN COMMITTEE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BUDGETS (73%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ETHICS (69%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); APPEALS COURTS (65%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (65%); TAX RELIEF (60%); ABORTION (55%); PRINT ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); GOLISANO, B THOMAS; LANE, LAWRENCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



362 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Polishes His Image, but Luster Fades in Jersey City

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WAYNE, N.J.

 BODY:
Mayor Bret Schundler of Jersey City was campaigning the other night before some supporters of Ross Perot in the affluent suburb of Wayne. The crowd was all white, mostly middle-age and generally cranky. "If we win this fight, we change things forever," the Mayor said, repeating a sales pitch honed during months of barnstorming across New Jersey.
Mr. Schundler spoke with the eloquence that has made him a much-ballyhooed figure in national Republican circles. But had they been there, many of his constituents might have considered the talk less notable for its conservative themes than for its location: once again, the Mayor of Jersey City was not in Jersey City. Once again, he was pushing his agenda to outsiders. 
 And he is not even running for office, though his critics may argue otherwise.
He was in Wayne to drum up interest in his proposal for a program of school vouchers for Jersey City, which would have to be approved by the Legislature. A few times a week, he has touched down in towns across the state, hoping to convince sometimes skeptical local residents to lobby their representatives on behalf of his economically depressed city of 229,000.
It is a crusade that like the Mayor himself, has begun to draw increasingly pointed attacks back home.
Mr. Schundler may be the darling of the pundits who champion him as proof that Republicans can conquer urban areas with large minority populations. But in Jersey City itself, a place of such factionalism and corruption that no one has been elected mayor to two consecutive full terms since the 1940's, it appears that the Schundler star no longer rises.
His former supporters complain that he devotes too much time to burnishing his national reputation by giving speeches and taking part in conferences. They maintain that he is pursuing policies like school vouchers or tax credits for health care that are too conservative for a historically Democratic city or are best left to higher-ranking officials.
"There is just so much that he has done to kill his credibility here," said Melissa Holloway, 33, a City Council member who was once an ally of the Mayor but is now an opponent. "It got to the point where we would have to turn on CNN on the weekend to find out where Bret was."
Mr. Schundler, 35, won a four-year term last year with 69 percent of the vote, six months after a triumph in a special election to fill the term of Mayor Gerald McCann, who had been convicted of fraud. The victories were startling because only 6 percent of the city's registered voters are Republican.
Even now, Mr. Schundler is applauded in Jersey City for one of his first successes, reducing property taxes, which have been among the highest in the state. He cut the municipal budget and raised revenue by employing a novel method of turning property tax liens into securities, an innovation that reflected his experience on Wall Street.
People praise the Mayor's intellect and energy, yet many also feel that he enjoys attending Cato Institute retreats on the Cayman Islands more than getting to know the residents of Martin Luther King Drive. Some suspect that the Mayor, a Democrat until 1991, is too ambitious to remain long in Jersey City, which is why he travels to so many speaking engagements and courts Republican luminaries like Jack Kemp and Newt Gingrich.
The national scrutiny Jersey City has received since Mr. Schundler took over also appears to grate on many residents. They say they sometimes detect a condescending tone implying that the people could not govern themselves -- that they had to turn to a Harvard-educated, Adam Smith-citing yuppie who has lived in the city only since the mid-1980's.
Miss Holloway and two other Council members say that Mr. Schundler would lose an election if it were held now. Most of the rest of the nine-member Council -- all Democrats elected on Mr. Schundler's ticket in a nonpartisan race -- say he would face a battle. Of the four minority Council members who were once his allies, Miss Holloway and Jaime Vasquez are now hostile. Another, L. Harvey Smith, is lukewarm at best.
In an interview at City Hall, Mr. Schundler attributed the antagonism toward him to the pace and depth of the changes he has sought for the city.
"That is the most absurd, inappropriate misdescription of reality that I have ever heard," he said of the accusations that he is never around. "I can't imagine any of the mayors in recent years who have spent as much time as I do here."
Mr. Schundler said he has shied away from speaking trips outside of the state in recent months, though not because of any backlash.
"I never did as many appearances before outside groups as people may have imagined," he said. "But I have cut them back because between April and now, we have had more work to do."
Mr. Schundler conceded that his popularity had slipped, mostly, he asserted, because he has been so immersed in the voucher issue and has been challenging entrenched groups, like unions and the Hudson County Democratic Party. If he were to face another election soon, he would win easily, he said.
"When I am out there getting the folks in Morristown organized, it doesn't give me as much time to go down the streets in Jersey City and say, 'How are you doing?' " he said of his work on the vouchers.
Mr. Schundler still has many defenders. "There are those who have fought very hard to avoid change because they don't want to relinquish their level of comfort," said Gregg T. Butterfield, 43, president of the Public School No. 8 Neighborhood Association. "But hey, urban areas are failing. You have got to do something."
But even his allies say that as a relative newcomer, Mr. Schundler does not always grasp the local political mores.
"The Mayor is spending more time on the larger issues and not enough time on the nitty-gritty issues that affect the city every day, like police, fire, sanitation and the budget," said Thomas A. DeGise, 44, the City Council president.
Mr. DeGise said the voucher program, under which parents could use tax credits to send children to private schools, may be Mr. Schundler's obsession, but few residents display similar enthusiasm for it. In recent months, Mr. DeGise said, he has received only one call (from a friend of his wife) about it.
Mr. DeGise said the council had privately warned Mr. Schundler that residents were accustomed to mayors who backslapped their way through town. Jersey City is a place, after all, where the marionette strings of the Democratic machine once threaded through almost every local institution.
So, perhaps it should not come as a surprise that a Mayor who in the course of conversation refers to the books of Corinthians, Nietzsche, John Locke and John Stuart Mill may be experiencing a little political culture shock.
Mr. Schundler said he was not naive, that he expected the hardball response to his policies. But, he said, he would not cave in.
"If I were to lose the next election because I've got all these interest groups around me, and I was forced, therefore, to actually have my weekends free and to be able to go home in time for dinner and to make 10 times as much money again, I could live with that," he said. "What I can't live with is doing a job which is this hard, simply for the sake of holding the office. Because I've got to tell you, it's not as pleasurable a life as what I had before."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Bret Schundler of Jersey City was campaigning recently before supporters of Ross Perot's United We Stand America in the suburb of Wayne. Mr. Schundler was in Wayne to drum up interest in his proposal for a program of school vouchers. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 21); Melissa Holloway, Coucilwoman (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Gregg T. Butterfield (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 22)
 
Map of New Jersey showing location of Jersey City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERSEY CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LOBBYING (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (68%); APPROVALS (68%); BUDGETS (67%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); CORRUPTION (64%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; SCHUNDLER, BRET (MAYOR) HENRY ROSS PEROT (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



363 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Public & Private;
Facts of Life Style

BYLINE: By ANNA QUINDLEN 

 BODY:
Let's be honest: Karen Burstein has an aberrational alternative life style. It's a life style that would repel most decent people, a life style so beyond the pale that many of us would hate and fear it for our own children.
 Karen Burstein runs for public office. 
Shaking hands each week with hundreds of strangers, visiting towns you've never heard of if you don't live in them, eating greasy food at street fairs. This is a weird, weird way to live.
 And then on top of it all Ms. Burstein, a Democrat who was first elected to the State Senate more than 20 years ago and is now running for attorney general in New York, has to listen to guys mouth off about her sex life. In 1990, when she was being sworn in as a judge, a public ceremony that combines aspects of government and bat mitzvah, she acknowledged her life partner, who is female. Which was no big deal until this week.
 Guy Molinari, the Borough President of Staten Island and an admitted Republican, attacked Ms. Burstein's fitness for high office because she is an "admitted lesbian." State Senator Serphin Maltese weighed in similarly. The chairman of the state's Conservative Party described Ms. Burstein as "an advocate of such a life style."
 I'm fascinated by this life style stuff because I can't for the life of me figure out what it is. What is the gay life style? Short hair? Minimalist decor? We can't simply be talking sex acts here, can we? Because if we are, that would mean that the heterosexual life style would consist largely of the missionary position. That doesn't entirely conform to my view of the heterosexual life style, which consists largely of folding towels, calling out for pizza and fighting over the remote for the TV.
 But maybe that's the married-with-children heterosexual life style, and the unmarried heterosexual life style is more redolent of sushi, after-hours clubs and suede pumps. Or maybe that's a romanticized version, and the unmarried heterosexual life style has more to do with watching "Seinfeld" and eating Chinese cold out of the carton.
 I don't know what Mr. Molinari, who pops off more often than a car alarm on the Upper West Side, thinks the gay life style consists of. He has a Staten Island life style, which I associate with ferry travel, detached houses and attempts to secede from New York City. But probably, like most places, Staten Island is rife with dozens of other life styles, too. Maybe some Staten Island life styles are gay life styles! (And by the by, doesn't gay life style sound like the name of a character on the soaps? A good one, too.)
 There was a time when everyone thought an earring was a sure sign of a gay life style, at least for men. Now it seems as if every kid working the drive-through window at Mickey Dee's has a pierced ear. Some of the lesbians I know keep cats. Is cat-keeping part of the gay life style? (Is the Republican Party opposed to cats? Oh, there's a losing position for you!) Or are cats merely a female New York City life style thing?
 Even Ms. Burstein is no help. "I have yet to go into a home and say 'Aha! There's that life style!' " she said. "I know I've been in public life for 20 years and the state has yet to fall down around my ears."
 Surely the Republican candidate, Dennis Vacco, doesn't think he's going to win this election on life style issues. I don't know that much about his life style; I do know he didn't make Ms. Burstein's an issue but hasn't forcefully repudiated those who have, arguing that that would not change their minds. Which is an excellent argument for keeping your mouth shut next time the Klan marches through your town.
 Then again, maybe life style is what really counts. Maybe the election will depend on the unemployed life style. The afraid-to-walk-the-streets life style. The vote-for-the-person-who-doesn't-try-to-muddy-the-waters life style.
 Clearly the most perverse life style of them all is running for office, trading in months of stumping the state for that glittering Albany life style. The only explanation for why anyone does it is that politics is not a preference, it's an orientation. Admitted politicians are born that way. And they deserve the same rights and respect as anyone else.
 Or, on occasion, maybe not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ATTORNEYS GENERAL; HOMOSEXUALITY; ELECTION ISSUES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LAWYERS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); FERRIES (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: QUINDLEN, ANNA; MOLINARI, GUY V (BORO PRES) KAREN BURSTEIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



364 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Hevesi on the Budget Gap: It's Worse Than Expected

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

 BODY:
New York City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi said yesterday that the city's budget gap could grow to $1.4 billion -- substantially higher than Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's most dire estimate -- and he called on the Mayor to make even more budget cuts than he had been planning.
Mr. Hevesi made his new calculation as the Giuliani administration was preparing to try to close a $1 billion gap in the $31.6 billion budget through sharp cuts in programs and services, new revenues and fees, and a new severance package seeking to entice 8,500 more workers off the payroll. 
 The Comptroller had been among the fiscal monitors who noted substantial risks in the budget enacted for the fiscal year that began on July 1. He said in July that the plan could fall short by $768 million to $968 million.
"The Mayor is moving to close the current gap, but it's a moving target," Mr. Hevesi said in releasing a monthly report on the city's finances. "Action must be taken quickly to deal with this larger gap. The problem will only get worse if we wait."
Mr. Hevesi attributed his new estimate to several major factors. He said the "largest trouble spot" was overtime spending, which he now predicts could be $263 million more than the $250 million anticipated in the budget. During the first quarter of the year, he said overtime cost were $99 million, or 74 percent more than anticipated.
The Comptroller also said that first-quarter tax revenues were $138 million below projections, and he predicted that increases in interest rates and a slump on Wall Street could result in further shortfalls in tax revenues. "The economy made a turn that no one predicted," he said. "We thought we were coming out of a recession. We are not. The tax revenues are below predictions, substantially below."
Mr. Hevesi also cited as unanticipated costs the continuing rise in the number of people receiving public assistance and the $28 million spent to increase jail capacity to deal with an influx of inmates and detainees resulting from the Mayor's law-enforcement crackdown.
Although the Giuliani administration noted many of the same trends when it recently projected that the city faced a $1 billion budget gap, it is still counting on revenues from actions that Mr. Hevesi considers risky, like the sale of the United Nations Plaza Hotel for $65 million, or the receipt of $75 million by negotiating new terms under which the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey leases Kennedy and La Guardia airports.
The Giuliani administration is continuing to negotiate for savings with the municipal labor unions and to search for ways to cut agency spending. Officials said the Mayor was planning to reduce city spending by $600 million, roughly half of that through eliminating jobs. He is also looking for $200 million in additional revenues and fees, and wants to reduce by $200 million the amount the city spends on health benefits for city workers.
With talks with the unions still under way, the Mayor put off until at least the end of next week his plans to unveil his final savings package and present it to the City Council. Abraham M. Lackman, the Mayor's budget director, said he thought the Comptroller's report would bolster the administration's case in negotiations with the unions by showing that its projection of a $1 billion gap "is not unduly alarmist."
In a meeting with union leaders on Thursday the administration offered a proposed severance package designed to lure up to 8,500 employees. Officials said the payments would be about 40 percent less than those offered in the buyout that took place in the spring. Under that program 6,100 workers left their jobs for cash payments that ranged from $3,500 to $15,000 as well as nine months of health care benefits. A new bargaining session was set for Monday.
Mr. Giuliani also announced on his weekly radio program yesterday that the Police Department, to cut costs, was considering a further delay in the start of a new class of police recruits. In August, Mr. Giuliani put off by two months the start of the next two classes of recruits at the Police Academy to save $10 million in salaries and pension costs. One of those classes was scheduled to begin in November.
A city official said the administration was also considering a new cut of as much as $170 million in city financing for the Board of Education.
Mr. Giuliani's senior aide, Deputy Mayor Peter J. Powers, conceded that there could still be a budget gap even after the administration put in place its plan to close the $1 billion shortfall. But he said it was too early to make that assessment. "We believe that a $1 billion program is the prudent thing to do now," Mr. Powers said. "We do recognize the potential for more risk, and we'll monitor that closely."
He said that he differed with Mr. Hevesi about the city's potential overtime costs, saying he was confident that the administration could bring such spending under control. In September, Mr. Giuliani issued an executive order setting up new procedures for monitoring agency overtime.
But Mr. Hevesi said that the Mayor should look for more agency cuts beyond the $600 million, "just to make sure that we are on the safe side if all these risks come to fruition." He added, "I think our numbers have been consistently very good and that we ought to plan on having a balanced budget immediately."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (61%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (61%); UNITED NATIONS PLAZA HOTEL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS BUDGETS (95%); LAYOFFS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); MAYORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); PRISONS (65%); CIVIL SERVICES (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); PORT AUTHORITIES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



365 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: California's Prop. 187

 BODY:
To the Editor:
William Safire's Oct. 6 column from Los Angeles criticizes Proposition 187, the California referendum that would deny illegal aliens most government services. Mr. Safire misstates the proposition: illegal aliens will not be jailed. They will be deported by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Proposition 187 is not a "nativist abomination," but a logical step toward saving California from economic ruin. Illegal aliens collect welfare payments through post office boxes in San Ysidro, just a 15-minute walk from Mexico. They receive free medical care and flood schools with non-English-speaking students. 
 By flooding the state with 2 million illegal aliens to date, and increasing that figure each of the following 10 years, Mexicans in California would number 15 million to 20 million by 2004. During those 10 years about 5 million to 8 million Californians would have emigrated to other states. If these trends continued, a Mexico-controlled California could vote to establish Spanish as the sole language of California, 10 million more English-speaking Californians could flee, and there could be a statewide vote to leave the Union and annex California to Mexico.
Those who doubt that Mexican illegal aliens steal jobs are not familiar with the Paperhangers' Union during the late 1980's. Illegal aliens slowly undercut wages and entered the work force. They seized the union and demanded the wages that were previously received by United States citizens. Those citizens now collect aluminum cans and glass bottles to survive.
LINDA R. HAYES
San Diego, Oct. 10, 1994
The writer is Proposition 187 media director for Southern California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; MEXICO; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; REFERENDUMS; DEPORTATION; ELECTION ISSUES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); REFERENDUMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); DEPORTATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: HAYES, LINDA R WILLIAM L SAFIRE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994



366 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 3; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 4539 words

HEADLINE: What Is Intelligence, and Who Has It?

BYLINE: By Malcolm W. Browne; Malcolm W. Browne is a science reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:

THE BELL CURVE
Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life.
By Richard J. Herrnstein and Charles Murray.
Illustrated. 845 pp. New York:
The Free Press. $30. 

RACE, EVOLUTION, AND BEHAVIOR
A Life History Perspective.
By J. Philippe Rushton.
Illustrated. 334 pp. New Brunswick, N.J.:
Transaction Publishers. $34.95.
 
THE DECLINE OF INTELLIGENCE IN AMERICA
A Strategy for National Renewal.
By Seymour W. Itzkoff.
242 pp. Westport, Conn.:
Praeger. $49.95.
ONE may loathe or share the opinions expressed in the three books under review, but one thing seems clear: The government or society that persists in sweeping their subject matter under the rug will do so at its peril.
The issues raised by the scholars who wrote these books bear intimately on America's near future: its quality of life, its citizens' sense of belonging, its economic survival and the very foundations of a democratic society. They believe that America is rapidly evolving a huge underclass, an intellectually deprived population of men and women whose cognitive abilities will never match the future needs of most employers and for whom American society seems to have less use each year. The prisoners of this new underclass, the authors fear, may be permanently doomed by their intellectual shortcomings to welfare dependency, poverty, crime and lives shorn of any hope of realizing the American dream.
The numbers are far from encouraging. Indicators of national intelligence in the United States have declined compared with similar measurements of intelligence in other countries. The demographer Daniel R. Vining Jr. has calculated that America's I.Q. scores have fallen about five points since intelligence tests first came into use at the beginning of this century, and the College Entrance Examination Board says that scores for the Scholastic Aptitude Test fell from 1962 to 1990 by 11 percent in the verbal section and 5 percent in the mathematics part. The Educational Testing Service does not call the S.A.T. an intelligence test, but the test is nevertheless supposed to measure something like native brainpower.
Worst of all, say the authors, the lowest intellectual levels of the population are strongly outbreeding the brightest, and if (as most psychologists believe) intelligence is partly inherited, America is losing the cognitive base essential to coping with national problems.
In "The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life," Richard J. Herrnstein and Charles Murray write, "Mounting evidence indicates that demographic trends are exerting downward pressures on the distribution of cognitive ability in the United States and that the pressures are strong enough to have social consequences." It makes little difference whether people at the low end of the intelligence scale pass on their deficit genetically or environmentally, they say: "If women with low scores are reproducing more rapidly than women with high scores, the distribution of scores will, other things equal, decline, no matter whether the women with the low scores came by them through nature or nurture."
This thesis becomes especially unpalatable when one considers the authors' observation that a large proportion of this emergent underclass is black. Unless future accommodations between ethnic groups lead to a more harmonious social structure, Mr. Herrnstein and Mr. Murray say, the potential for racial hatred seems enormous.
However much one may disagree with this assessment, the possibility that the authors may be even partly right makes these three books worth plowing through and mulling over. The articulation of issues touching on group intelligence and ethnicity has been neither fashionable nor safe for the last three decades, but these scholars argue that the time has come to grasp the nettle of political heresy, to discard social myths and to come to grips with statistical evidence.
The authors suggest that unless we do something to correct present trends, America may soon be permanently split between an isolated caste of ruling meritocrats on one hand and a vast, powerless Lumpenproletariat on the other. Society, the authors predict, will have little use for this underclass in a world dominated by sophisticated machines and the bright human beings who tend them.
This grim future may already be unavoidable.
Seymour W. Itzkoff, whose book "The Decline of Intelligence in America: A Strategy for National Renewal" is the gloomiest of the group, writes: "Our problem is simple, but oh-so-difficult to discuss, let alone accept. We are a different people than we were 50 years ago. In truth, we are not the nation that we were. Relative to the rest of the developed and developing world, we probably no longer have the intellectual capital that can profit from the available educational resources."
These books are heavily laced with statistics, bibliographic citations and ideas requiring time to consider, and they are not light reading. The authors of "The Bell Curve" tell readers that they may limit their perusal to the summaries that precede each chapter, and that they may skip the main text. Still, "The Bell Curve" is 845 pages long, and a reader who skips even the appendixes will miss many of the points the authors are at pains to make.
The writers of these works are recognized by colleagues as serious scholars. Mr. Herrnstein, who died from lung cancer at the age of 64 this September, just before publication of "The Bell Curve," was a professor of psychology at Harvard University; Mr. Murray, a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute whose views influenced the Reagan White House, is the author of "Losing Ground: American Social Policy 1950-1980"; J. Philippe Rushton, the firebrand of the quartet, is a professor of psychology at the University of Western Ontario, and Mr. Itzkoff is a professor of education at Smith College.
Although their books vary in viewpoint, the authors share a suite of controversial convictions. They believe that intelligence in some deep but ill-defined sense is a real attribute of human beings, not some artificial construct of the psychometricians who invented intelligence tests. (Mr. Itzkoff's loose definition of intelligence, very similar to that of the other authors, is expressed as the capacity "to think abstractly, to reason. . . . to organize large quantities of information into meaningful and useful systems.")
They believe that I.Q. can be quantitatively measured, and that intelligence is at least partly heritable. They say that numerical measurements of intelligence are statistically (albeit weakly) correlated with job performance, as well as with rates of birth, marriage, divorce, illegitimacy, crime, welfare dependency and participation in the political process.
MOREOVER, they say, intelligence test scores tend to vary with ethnic groups. In the United States, Asians generally score a few points higher than whites and blacks some 15 I.Q. points lower than whites. (Mr. Herrnstein and Mr. Murray mention in passing that "Ashkenazi Jews of European origins . . . test higher than any other ethnic group.") These relative standings have not changed appreciably over time, despite many profound changes during the last half-century in social and economic conditions. The authors acknowledge that an enriched social, educational, economic and intellectual environment can and does raise intelligence scores, but they insist that even when due allowance is made in terms of statistical comparisons of all other factors and measuring their relative weights, intelligence still seems to be strongly influenced by the genes of one's forebears.
This leads to the depressing inference by the authors that no matter how many remedial education programs are brought to bear on intellectually disadvantaged children, many of them will still be hamstrung by an ineradicable cognitive disability created by genetic bad luck.
Society, the authors argue, should accept this as a real possibility and learn to cope with it, rather than merely denouncing all intelligence studies and ignoring the data they yield. For one thing, they say, much of the Government money spent on education programs like Head Start (which was launched in 1964) is wasted, helping only the nation's bloated educational bureaucracies.
"The earliest returns on Head Start were exhilarating," Mr. Herrnstein and Mr. Murray write. "A few months spent by preschoolers in the first summer program seemed to be producing incredible I.Q. gains -- as much as 10 points." The gain was so impressive that in 1966 Congress expanded the program, but by then, the authors of "The Bell Curve" say, "experts were noticing the dreaded 'fade-out,' the gradual convergence in test scores of the children who participated in the program with comparable children who had not. To shorten a long story, every serious attempt to assess the impact of Head Start on intelligence has found fade-out." Cognitive benefits "picked up in the first grade of school are usually gone by the third grade. By sixth grade, they have vanished entirely."
This leaves unanswered questions about whether the declining educational environment after Head Start may in itself account for the fading out of its beneficial effects, and it raises related questions about I.Q. itself: if it can be raised by education, how strongly is it linked to inheritance?
TAKEN individually, none of the propositions advanced in these books is necessarily a call to arms, but in combination they are explosive. The writers themselves, whose views have been widely known (among academics, at least) for many years, are no strangers to public rows, student boycotts, hostile demonstrations and even legal assaults. Aware of the storm of criticism their latest books may face, all four invoke mountains of statistics to fend off anticipated criticism from such critics as Stephen Jay Gould, the Harvard paleontologist who in "The Mismeasure of Man" (1981) charged that "determinist arguments for ranking people according to a single scale of intelligence, no matter how numerically sophisticated, have recorded little more than social prejudice."
The authors cite many surveys suggesting significant correlations between low scores on intelligence tests and undesirable tendencies: a difficulty with learning, a likelihood of remaining impoverished and jobless, an involvement in all types of crime, a tendency not to vote or participate in community affairs, a high incidence of abusing or abandoning children and a record of producing far more children (most of them illegitimate) than can be supported.
Mr. Itzkoff believes that the least intelligent, least educable, poorest, most politically apathetic and abusive contingent of the population is reproducing faster than the smart, rich, politically active and nurturing contingent. He believes this has fueled a dysgenic trend: America's collective smartness is being diluted, gravely endangering the nation's ability to compete economically in international markets; for example, he says, America's declining ability to compete in the global sale of automobiles and other manufactured products, as well as its status as the world's leading debtor nation, are partly the result of the declining cognitive abilities of workers and administrators.
In his book, Mr. Itzkoff places most of the blame for America's alleged intellectual decline on what he sees as an economically and intellectually elite caste of misguided liberals. They have isolated themselves from American society, he says, by their paternalistic treatment of the underclass, by discounting the importance of traditional family values and by failing to raise enough bright, educated children to sustain national competence. Mr. Itzkoff's unabashedly conservative tract condemns liberals in government, in the news media and in society at large, and calls for an end to welfare programs, a radical reform of the academic and employment quota systems that are supported by affirmative action and a tightening of immigration standards, perhaps barring families deemed likely to become permanently dependent on the welfare system.
No such calls to action are urged by Mr. Rushton, the author of "Race, Evolution, and Behavior: A Life History Perspective," or by Mr. Herrnstein and Mr. Murray. Nowhere do they advocate the measures championed by the eugenicists of the 1920's and 1930's, whose ideas were appropriated and perverted by the Nazis as the rationale for the Holocaust. Indeed, the authors of "The Bell Curve" say that the granting to any government or social institution of the power to decide who may breed and who may not is fraught with such obvious dangers as to be unacceptable.
Still, one suspects that the authors of these three books may have softened their agendas somewhat to parry the expected fury of liberal critics, fellow academics and hostile mobs. Given their conclusions about intellect and demographics, it is hard to believe that these writers would oppose a eugenically motivated program designed to influence patterns of reproduction.
They leave many subjects untouched, including the genetic opportunities created by molecular biology -- a Pandora's box loaded with paradoxes and snares. For the first time in human history, it may soon be possible to confer resistance to disease upon living organisms and to free people of inherited scourges like sickle-cell anemia and Tay-Sachs disease. Most people would argue that society is justified in fighting physical disease, but what if we were to carry the war against disease a step farther? Is it wrong to regard a hereditary predisposition to lower intelligence as a kind of genetic disease and to find ways to cure it?
Merely asking that question is enough to cause fear and outrage, and these authors, perhaps wisely, elect to leave it alone. Sooner or later, however, society may have to decide whether human beings have the right -- perhaps even the duty -- to strengthen our species' cognitive defenses against an increasingly dangerous global environment. Human beings evolved over the eons to defend themselves against changes in their environment, and things are still changing.
Meanwhile, there are matters of practical policy to consider, such as the merits of affirmative action. Psychometricians generally agree that blacks, on average, have scored lower than whites on intelligence tests and that whites have scored lower than Asians ever since such tests were devised early in this century. But it is often argued that standardized tests cannot measure intelligence, and that the tests administered in the United States are especially pointless because they are culturally biased against blacks and Hispanics. In 1971 the Supreme Court endorsed such criticisms and ruled that tests of general intelligence (as opposed to tests that solely measure fitness for particular jobs) are discriminatory and cannot be administered as a condition of employment.
Mr. Murray and Mr. Herrnstein argue, however, that charges of systematic bias in intelligence testing are refuted by objective analyses of the available data. They cite the Scholastic Aptitude Test as one of their examples. "If the S.A.T. is biased against blacks," they say, "it will underpredict their college performance." But "external evidence of bias has been sought in hundreds of studies," Mr. Herrnstein and Mr. Murray say. "It has been evaluated relative to performance in elementary school, in secondary school, in the university, in the armed forces, in unskilled and skilled jobs, in the professions. Overwhelmingly, the evidence is that the major standardized tests used to help make school and job decisions do not underpredict black performance, nor does the expert community find any other general or systematic difference in the predictive accuracy of tests for blacks and whites."
One of the strengths of "The Bell Curve" is that it devotes an entire section to the relationships between I.Q. and behavior among whites alone, thereby eliminating the complications arising from interracial comparisons. Analyses of data gathered from exclusively white demographic groups strongly suggest that even if one ignores race, socioeconomic status and family background, I.Q. does indeed correlate with birth rates, crime rates and many other things. Taken as a whole, the statistics are impressive; it seems hard to challenge the notion that I.Q. plays a statistically important role in the shaping of society.
Mr. Murray and Mr. Herrnstein draw extensively from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth, which has focused on 12,686 high school students, picked as a representative sample of the high school population, who graduated between 1980 and 1982. These students, who were tested and measured at the outset of the study in 1979, have been tracked ever since. Based on the psychometric indicators and the personal histories of these young people, the authors found various suggestive correlations and concluded that the biggest influence on the lives of the people in their sample was the "g" factor -- psychometricians' jargon for core intelligence.
Definitions of intelligence have always been controversial, as have been tests devised to measure it quantitatively. In 1904, the British psychometrician Charles Spearman conceived of a quality he called "g," or "general factor" of intelligence, which has remained part of the psychometrician's lexicon ever since. Spearman's idea was based on his finding that people tend to achieve similar scores on tests that may be very different in content but that contain questions requiring cognitive skill. Such questions were said to measure "g," and tests that emphasized this factor rather than calling for demonstrations of learned skills are said to be "g-loaded" tests.
"G-loaded" tests, the authors of these three books contend, are better predictors of job performance than tests for specific learned skills.
THE Pentagon found the National Longitudinal Survey so useful that its experts used it in devising a general intelligence test known as the Armed Forces Qualification Test, which focuses on problem-solving aptitude and has been administered to all would-be recruits for many years. Mr. Herrnstein and Mr. Murray cite military statistics showing that the "strongly g-loaded" Armed Forces Qualification Test is an excellent predictor of success in military training schools, even including combat schools that stress physical performance. The statistics were assembled from the records of 472,539 service personnel and 828 military schools.
Statistics are so important to the subjects under discussion that Mr. Murray and Mr. Herrnstein offer readers a short course on the interpretation of standard deviations, regression analysis and kindred matters. Their title, "The Bell Curve," refers to the shape of normal distribution graphs -- bulging in the middle and thinning out at the edges -- that are used to represent large numbers of individuals sorted according to any shared characteristic -- weight, exposure to asbestos, taste in clothes or I.Q.
The authors frequently refer to bell curves to make a point: that predictions about any individual based exclusively on his or her I.Q. are virtually useless. It is only when weak correlations between intelligence and job success are applied to large groups of people that they have predictive value. Within statistically large groups of people, the authors say, the pervasive influence of I.Q. on human society becomes evident.
Statistics can be powerfully persuasive but they are as slippery as eels, often susceptible to opposing interpretations. In brief, it is sometimes difficult to tell good statistics from bad ones. Epidemiology, a branch of medicine that relies heavily on statistics and has had some brilliant successes but also some spectacular failures, is a case in point. Epidemiologists have successfully used statistical correlations to convince most people that smoking increases the incidence of certain diseases, for example, but when some epidemiologists pointed out a relationship between low doses of microwave radiation and disease, their claims were bitterly contested. Debates over the epidemiology of intelligence have fallen into the same witch's brew.
ONE of the main problems in assessing statistics is the risk of overlooking confounding variables. A graph demonstrating a positive correlation between intelligence test scores and academic achievement may be very persuasive until, perhaps, one looks at an equally impressive graph that shows a negative correlation between academic achievement and the level of environmental lead to which a student is exposed. Does the lead impair the learning process directly, or does it do so indirectly by reducing cognitive ability? Is it merely a coincidence that environmental lead levels are high in inner-city neighborhoods whose children do badly in school? In any study of I.Q., can an epidemiologist "control" for all the independent factors that may create spurious correlations, such as inequalities in schooling, nutrition, family environment and general health? Maybe so, but it is notoriously difficult for scientists who study intelligence to reach consensus about anything.
Despite its impressive (albeit numbing) mass of statistical arguments, "The Bell Curve" suffers from a consistent weakness: Its authors seem unsure whether they are addressing ordinary (but scientifically literate) readers or professional scholars. In their indecision, they offer either too little or too much information. Their book abounds with tables and graphs, but to gauge the validity of many of the inferences the authors present, a reader is often obliged to dig into the book's huge bibliography and seek out the original papers to which it refers, many of them available only at scientific libraries.
The book leaves unanswered questions a reader might have about such vital matters as sampling procedures. In a discussion of one of the statistical methods for gauging heritability, the authors write: "Nonspecialists need not concern themselves with nuts and bolts, but they may need to be reassured on a few basic points." What follows is partly a discussion of statistical analysis and partly a plea to the reader to accept certain inferences on faith.
Nevertheless, "The Bell Curve" makes a strong case that America's population is becoming dangerously polarized between a smart, rich, educated elite and a population of unintelligent, poor and uneducated people. The authors deplore this polarization, which, they feel, has begun to manifest itself in the polarization of the nation's services: while the elite use private delivery services, go to private schools, live in gated communities and rely on arbitration by private lawyers to handle business disputes, the rest of the population uses the Federal postal service, goes to public schools, lives outside the gates of private communities and relies on public judicial process. Moreover, the authors note, America no longer has a conscript army -- an institution which, with all its faults, was one of the great mixers of young men from all levels of society.
As the job market for the masses -- the people at the low end of the intelligence spectrum -- dries up, Mr. Herrnstein and Mr. Murray write, America's leaders are increasingly likely to create a "custodial" state that minimally nourishes, houses and cares for its despised underclass in the equivalent of an Indian reservation. The result, the authors contend, will be alienation and vicious racial hatred. Once a major segment of society becomes a permanent ward of the state, democracy must swiftly die.
Mr. Rushton's book, "Race, Evolution, and Behavior," is incendiary. His thesis is that separate races of human beings evolved different reproductive strategies to cope with different environments, and that these strategies led to physical differences between races, including differences in brain size and hence in intelligence. Human beings who evolved in the warm but highly unpredictable environment of Africa adopted a strategy of high reproduction, while human beings who migrated to the hostile cold of Europe and northern Asia took to producing fewer children but nurturing them more carefully.
This, Mr. Rushton contends, gave rise to three major races (he scorns the phrase "ethnic groups") -- mongoloids, caucasoids and negroids -- and to physiological differences between the races (things like pelvis size, genital size and fertility rates) that are consonant with their rates of reproduction. He cites worldwide studies concluding that black women ovulate more often than white women, have more twins than white women, mature sexually faster than whites, and differ in other ways that affect their reproduction rates and strategies for child rearing. Among Mr. Rushton's conclusions are that whites, on average, emphasize nurture rather than numbers of offspring, while blacks, on average, are shaped by evolutionary selection pressures to produce more children but to nurture each one less. At the other extreme, some studies suggest that mongoloids evolved to produce even fewer offspring. One indicator, Mr. Rushton says, is a tendency to produce fraternal twins -- twins conceived from two eggs in the same menstrual cycle. The rate of fraternal twins per 1,000 births for mongoloids is less than 4, for whites, approximately 8, and for negroids, more than 16, he says.
THIS is the kind of proposition that makes Mr. Rushton a constant target of furious protests. His classes in psychology at the University of Western Ontario have been barred by hostile demonstrators year after year, forcing him to lecture by videotape.
Mr. Rushton is nevertheless regarded by many of his colleagues as a scholar and not a bigot. The University of Western Ontario has consistently upheld his right to continue teaching. One of his papers on racial differences was presented at a 1989 meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and caused an uproar, but demands to suppress the paper were rejected by Walter Massey, who at the time was president of the association. Mr. Massey, who is black, argued that no scientific organization has the right to act as a censor of scientific debate.
In their book, Mr. Murray and Mr. Herrnstein do not support Mr. Rushton's theories of human evolution, but they comment that "Rushton's work is not that of a crackpot or a bigot, as many of his critics are given to charging. . . . As science, there is nothing wrong with Rushton's work in principle; we expect that time will tell whether it is right or wrong in fact."
The most insistent plea of the four authors is for freedom of debate and an end to the shroud of censorship imposed upon scientists and scholars by pressure groups and an acquiescing society. Mr. Murray and Mr. Herrnstein write that "for the last 30 years, the concept of intelligence has been a pariah in the world of ideas," and that the time has come to rehabilitate rational discourse on the subject. It is hard to imagine a democratic society doing otherwise.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BELL CURVE, THE (BOOK); RACE, EVOLUTION, AND BEHAVIOR (BOOK); DECLINE OF INTELLIGENCE IN AMERICA, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); WRITERS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); TRENDS (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W; HERRNSTEIN, RICHARD J; MURRAY, CHARLES; RUSHTON, J PHILIPPE; ITZKOFF, SEYMOUR W RICHARD J HERRNSTEIN (66%); CHARLES MURRAY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



367 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 64; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: It's A Mad Mad Mad Ad World

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP; Herbert Muschamp is the architecture critic of The New York Times.

 BODY:
IT KNOWS WHAT MAKES YOU SHOP.
It is the nerve center of a company that wants to invade your dreams, shape your desires, make you crave things you never knew you wanted. It is the new Manhattan headquarters of the advertising agency Chiat/Day. And it is a remarkable work of art. 
 People are calling it the virtual office -- a workplace designed for the age of the cellular phone, the computer modem and the mobility that such devices have made possible. Lodged high up in a glass tower in lower Manhattan, Chiat/Day has opened its wacky new doors at a time when there is talk that technology is making the urban workplace obsolete. Before long, many people will telecommute from home along the information highway. Will it even make sense to keep an office?
Let's find out.
That's the adventurous spirit with which the agency head, Jay Chiat, and his designer, the Italian-born architect Gaetano Pesce, have approached this project. If information is a highway, then let's hit the road, pack some lunch, take some detours. Create an office that is a magical mystery tour of ideas. Who cares if we get lost, meet a dead end, run out of gas? At least no one will die of boredom.
Certainly they seem to be traveling through some new improved dimension, these young, Gap-garbed hotshots that go breezing by as you walk into the large open area just past the reception desk. They pace, they stride, they circle, gesticulating with one hand, clutching a cellular phone in the other. Or they briefly touch down at a computer console, one of a cluster of free-floating work stations that can be wheeled around the floor to take advantage of the spectacular skyline views. Indeed, as they go about their business, half the staff seem to be out there treading the airwaves somewhere between New York and Television Land in the great ethereal beyond.
What keeps them hovering there is a radically fluid arrangement of space, devised by Chiat and Pesce to keep the firm in a state of creative unrest. There are no private offices at Chiat/Day. There are no assigned desks. There are no straight corridors leading past square secretarial carrels guarding hushed executive offices. Nor is there a whiff of the imposing hierarchical atmosphere that such conventional layouts reinforce. Instead, Chiat and Pesce have created the architectural equivalent of a brainstorm: 29,000 boisterous, loosely organized square feet, bursting with color, form and wit.
Chiat/Day's employees show up at irregular hours; some of the staff (of 150) work part time at home. Arriving at the office, they present themselves at "The Store," an electronic dispensary housed be- hind a huge pair of glistening red lips. Here, they can check out a phone, a laptop or whatever other tools it takes to produce an ad for Fruitopia, Redken, Nynex or Nissan. Then, if they don't choose to perch in the air, they might settle down to work in only slightly more conventional surroundings.
The office is not just one big loft. There are workrooms dedicated to specific clients, and a row of 10 small rooms that can be booked for an afternoon or a week -- a motel for travelers on the data expressway. A conference room, a library, audio-video and print production centers are also enclosed behind partitions. There's even a tiny, one might almost say homeopathic, dose of privacy allotted each employee in the form of a locker, with a door molded into the contour of a human profile. Lined up in banks, the lockers look like spoofs of Easter Island totems -- shrines, perhaps, to the days when office doors still closed.
Nevertheless, at least half the space at Chiat/Day is given over to large open areas like "The Piazza," where the staff can assemble for meetings or screenings around a rolling staircase, and "The Club House," a large rectangular area that serves as a social hub. Outfitted with Pesce-designed cafe tables and chairs, plush banquettes and an espresso bar, this is a sublime spot to have a coffee, gaze out at the harbor, and hatch some diabolical plot to sell cars. On a recent afternoon, several employees had turned some of the tables into desks. Above the coffee bar, video monitors previewed new commercials. One young man, sprawled on his back, phone in hand, looked like a hip, latter-day Huck afloat on a drifting raft.
The urbanist William H. Whyte has documented how New Yorkers use the street as an outdoor office, spreading their newspapers atop mailboxes as if they were desks. Such scenes can't be reproduced precisely at Chiat/Day; this is a "paperless" office, where even the jottings on wall-mounted chalkboards are electronically recorded and filed. Still, the roving, makeshift way of working here does recall the vibrant pulse of street life. Indeed, the "virtual office" turns out to be very much like the city downstairs: all those electronic extensions have not eliminated the need for social condensation, the random contacts and the unplanned interruptions of unmediated life in the round.
Considering the advanced technology it takes to make the office tick, one might expect it to have a chilly, high-tech look. Instead, a funky spirit of handicraft and improvisation prevails. Fabric panels, affixed to computer stations and office doors, are as cozy as country quilts. A lighting baffle made of insulation fiber, suspended above the reception desk, looks like something salvaged from a trash can. Sofas are cushioned with floppy dunce caps sporting little sleigh bells. The result bears no resemblance to the sleek, hard-edge esthetic we've come to associate with the modern world.
But modernity moves on. Industrial technology is not the mighty force it was when the Bauhaus was at work. Computers and cellular phones may be outgrowths of that technology, but they are a different order of device from the assembly-line machines of the industrial age; the raw material they process is the stuff of mind: consciousness, behavior, desire.
Educated in the 1960's in Venice, where his teachers included Carlo Scarpa and Bruno Zevi, Gaetano Pesce understands that modernism is not a style. It is the art of interpreting the present to itself. Pesce is not, of course, creating cyberspace: his design for Chiat/Day is restricted to architecture's conventional three dimensions. But within that scope, modern inventiveness prevails. The office's brilliantly colored floor, for example, is not a simple painted surface. It is a technical innovation, developed in the course of Pesce's experiments with poured and molded polyurethane resins. Mixing resin with marble dust, he has created a resilient, hard-wearing surface of intensely saturated color. The same research has yielded tables and chairs of molded plastic with the intense glow of ancient stained glass. While these designs are not classically modern, they adhere to a modern ethos -- the beauty as well as the economy of cheap materials.
Compared with the crisp style of corporate modernism, Pesce's work can look painfully coarse. It quivers, it shakes, it is all over the place. But there is nothing mindless about this evident lack of refinement. Indeed, what is truly novel about Pesce's vision is the emotional content that this awkwardness conveys. Where a conventional design seeks to satisfy the desire for beauty, Pesce uncovers something closer to the beauty of desire. The nervous strokes of black pigment that agitate the floor; the spring-footed legs that set Pesce's plastic chairs atremble; the lighting fixtures that spring from the wall like overstimulated nerve ends: these details embody a giddy, even clumsy, yearning to kick off the dust and embrace a future as yet unrevealed.
Yet Pesce's quirky esthetic is also rooted in modern technology, if one can stretch the term to include techniques of mind. Jay Chiat, of course, knows a lot about such techniques. His business, like Freud's, is the interpretation of dreams, the collective wishes of the consuming public. All those gadgets passing through the Shop's big red mouth are hooked up to the technology of desire, and Pesce has incorporated some of that technology directly into his design. Outside one conference room, there is a "brick" wall molded from remote-control devices. The production center is enclosed by hundreds of stacked videocassettes.
The whole office appears suspended in a dream state: tables sprout faces, chairs chime, the floor erupts in a free association of icons -- arrows, animals, eyes, logos, light bulbs -- and painted captions. "Nice view," reads one caption, beneath a window facing New York Harbor. "Very nice view," comments another on a commanding East River prospect. Rooms resembling padded cells await those whose dreams get out of hand, or perhaps don't go far enough.
Barely four months after moving in, Chiat and his staff seem, on the whole, to be happily at home inside this dream. Even so, the virtual office should probably be seen as a work in progress. Eliminating private space may be in keeping with current technology, but it may well be an affront to human nature. It would not be surprising if, a year from now, territorial claims have been staked out on this brave new terrain. Nor should such a development be taken as proof that the concept failed, for the essence of the concept is to escape rigidity, to encourage change.
Pesce's apotheosis of the dream factory may repel those who fear the spread of Madison Avenue values throughout contemporary culture. Image makers and media manipulators have already done so much to blur the lines between fact and fiction, art and commerce. There is something disconcerting about a work of art that celebrates such a specious cultural force.
If Pesce's artistic conscience is clear, that is partly because he accepts advertising as a fact of modern life. Also, he recognizes that, with all their power to distort, ads reflect many of the same social realities with which architects must contend. Thirty years ago, Marshall McLuhan predicted that future historians would regard ads as "the richest and most faithful daily reflections that any society ever made of its entire range of activities." In this office, Pesce and Chiat hold up a fun-house mirror to some hopeful truths about ourselves. We are a modern society that still hungers to pursue dreams, shed habits, take risks, and let the imagination soar.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BEHIND THE GIANT LIPS, ABOVE, IS AN ELECTRONIC DISPENSARY CALLED "THE STORE" WHERE EMPLOYEES SIGN UP FOR WORK SPACES AND PICK UP THEIR COMPUTERS IN THE MORNING. SINCE THERE ARE NO PRIVATE OFFICES OR DESKS, THE EMPLOYEE LOCKERS, RIGHT, ARE THE ONLY VESTIGE OF PRIVACY. MADE OF LAMINATED WOOD AND PAPIER-MACHE, THEY LOOK LIKE SPOOFS OF ABORIGINAL TOTEMS.; THE DECOR IS RIDDLED WITH COMMENTS ON THE SPACE, LIKE THE DOOR WITH A QUESTION MARK, ABOVE LEFT. A CLIENT PROJECT ROOM (ABOVE), WITH ITS OWN WINDOW, IS FINISHED IN WOOL FELT.; THE SMALL ROOM ABOVE RIGHT CAN BE BOOKED FOR A DAY OR A WEEK. THE ONE ABOVE HAS A QUILTED DOOR SHAPED LIKE A BOTTLE. THE SUGGESTION OF A PADDED CELL IS NOT INADVERTENT.; LOW-INTENSITY LIGHTS DECORATE THE WALL OUTSIDE A CLIENT CONFERENCE ROOM (ABOVE RIGHT). THE DOGHOUSE (ABOVE) TAKES ITS NAME FROM THE FLOOR, A VIVID MIXTURE OF RESIN AND MARBLE DUST.; IN DESIGNING THE SPACE, GAETANO PESCE TAPPED INTO THE ESTHETICS OF TECHNOLOGY, AS IN THE "BRICK WALL" OF REMOTE-CONTROL DEVICES ABOVE. AT TOP LEFT IS A CLIENT CONFERENCE ROOM. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIZZIE HIMMEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHIAT/DAY CHIAT/DAY/MOJO INC ADVERTISING (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHIAT/DAY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN TELECOMMUTING (90%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); 

PERSON: PESCE, GAETANO; CHIAT, JAY; MUSCHAMP, HERBERT GAETANO PESCE (65%); JAY CHIAT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



368 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 37; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: ANTIPOLITICS '94;
The Anger: Ever Deeper

 BODY:
It's a rough year for Democrats, for incumbents and for politics generally. Gov. Mario Cuomo finds "a harshness and a negativism and a fear out there." So do candidates elswehere; this campaign seems animated most not by a particular issue but by a sullen, surly mood.
The hostility worsens steadily. When University of Michigan scholars asked people in 1964, "How much of the time do you trust the Government in Washington to do what's right?" 76 percent said most or all of the time. When the question was asked in 1992, only 29 percent said so. "People talk as though our political system had been taken over by alien beings," the authors of a Kettering Foundation report found in 1991. A recent New York Times/CBS poll asked whether members of Congress deserve re-election. Only 13 percent of the public said yes. 
 What explains such hostility? The articles that follow, about some notable races, were not intended as a survey of the campaign, yet they reflect the deeper anxieties. Economic unease is probably foremost. Young adults who expected to do better than their parents now struggle to do as well. Since about 1970, Americans typically have not seen their standard of living increase at all. The only way many people get ahead, or keep up, is with second or third jobs. Americans are sleeping, on average, an hour a night less than a generation ago.
Something else central has changed over the years. Crime has instilled a sense of social breakdown, adding its own tremolo to the political mood. Witness the potential alliance of alienated groups envisioned by the Christian Coalition (page 46).
Television offers another explanation, as reflected in the article about the Brown dynasty (page 38). California, beset by mud, flood, tremor, riot and lost jobs, has experienced much bad news. Meanwhile, like America generally, it has experienced much bad news. That is, journalists know that news, almost by definition, is much more likely to be bad than good. Thus, as the sheer volume of news has exploded over 30 years, there has been a parallel explosion of negativism -- like the parade of body bags each night, film at 11. When the public is steeped in bad news for decades, it should come as no surprise that many people believe that times are truly terrible.
Money offers a third explanation for the anger, specifically that spent by special interests. Common Cause, the public interest lobby, calculates that while House incumbents outspent challengers 1.5 to 1 in 1974, their spending advantage in 1994 is 5 to 1. Meanwhile, problems of ordinary citizens like health insurance and business closings stay frozen in legislative limbo. And in Chicago's Fifth Congressional District, Washington's concerns about the Democrat Dan Rostenkowski's ethical conduct seem puritanical and unworldly (page 52).
The story of Steve Gunderson, a former Republican House leader (page 42), gives a Republican perspective to the wide sense of political unresponsiveness. A gay man, he personifies fiscal restraint coupled with social moderation, something many people say they want. But he has quit his leadership position and says he won't run again in 1996. He feels his party is abandoning the center.
Voters' loss of trust may emanate from a still more important source: expectations. In the essay on page 56, Thomas Cronin describes how Americans have long expected too much of their Presidents, and how Bill Clinton is paying the price of such unrealistic hopes. For all these reasons, it will be no surprise if frustrated citizens vote for change on Nov. 8. It will be even less surprising if they don't vote at all. One of every two eligible voters sat out the 1966 Congressional election. In 1990, two of every three stayed home. If that pattern continues this year, the combination of angry voters and absent ones will ratify the reverberating message of the campaign so far. In a word, antipolitics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); ETHICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); WRITERS (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); TRENDS (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



369 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 24; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: METHOD AND MADNESS;
Truly Gross Economic Product

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE 

 BODY:
Suppose you consume about 10 pounds of food and drink a day. If you live to be 80, then a total of 146 tons of consumables will have swilled down your gullet. Enough to turn the scale against two M1A1 Abrams tanks.
Nature averts such portliness with the equivalent of a built-in thermostat that keeps that body at a more or less fixed weight. Considering the torrents of high-calorie food that flood through every day, this device works with amazing accuracy. Unfortunately, its settings are easily deranged by greed, genetics and the influences of culture. 
 The human weight-control system was designed for our paleolithic past when starvation, not gluttony, was mankind's most constant threat. Hence, the body has the capacity to pile on excess poundage whenever its owner feels compelled to crash satiety's amber light.
From minute flaws, calamities of grossness flow. In 1980, one in four Americans was overweight, defined by the National Center for Health Statistics as being 20 percent above the ideal weight. By 1991, one in three Americans had waddled past this benchmark. Obesity experts are not sure how to explain the phenomenon. "I must say I am absolutely stumped by it and I think most people are," says Albert J. Stunkard of the University of Pennsylvania and co-author of a leading obesity textbook. Though no trend carries on forever, it's arresting to imagine how far this creeping national expansion might go before something gives.
The steady inflation of the national girth is imperceptible day to day. But you may have noticed the warning signs: how often you are squashed in a bus or plane seat by an overlarge person next to you; how the people in the placid heartland are even more overweight than those on the frenetic coasts (Wisconsin has the highest prevalence of obesity in the nation).
But to see the national fat crisis in truly stark perspective, fly to Tokyo. Once you've recovered from the shock of discovery that large cities can be immaculate, orderly and virtually free of street crime, you may notice another discomfiting comparison: the sidewalks are thronged with slim, fit-looking people among whom the only corpulence belongs to American tourists or the occasional Japanese teen-ager who may have passed too often through the golden arches of Makudonarudos.
The excuse will rapidly suggest itself that American obesity is a disease of civilization and that Japanese are slim because they continue to eat a traditional diet of rice and fish. But the Japanese are at least as civilized as anyone else and have long been affluent enough to afford an American diet if they wanted it.
For another lesson in the nature of obesity, consider the inhabitants of Nauru, a Pacific isle northeast of Australia, where everyone was dirt poor until the eons of bird droppings that formed much of its territory proved to be a rich source of minable phosphate. The inhabitants found sudden wealth. They also became the most blubbery folk on earth. Nine out of 10 people on Nauru are obese.
Affluence makes obesity possible; some cultural difference must keep Japanese lithe but nudge Americans toward excess. I blame our economists, who have set consumption and consumer fulfillment as the highest purpose of an economy. Japan's have long favored the opposite goal: heavy saving by consumers with sumptuary spending reserved for the captains of industry to invest in conquering new markets. The economist's meaning of consumption is broader than the literal sense of the word, but in practice the distinction is not so significant. In accord with their respective economic philosophies, American consumers are deluged with urgent invitations to indulgence, while Japanese are beset with high prices that encourage frugality.
It's tempting to speculate on other ingredients of the Zeitgeist that have promoted American embonpoint, like the fading of the cold war and competing ideologies, but more interesting is the strange complacency surrounding the subject. Many people go on diets or intend to, even to the point of spending some $30 billion a year on weight-loss efforts. But most dieting is just eating in another form. If real worry about weight is to be measured in terms of actually sweating off calories, it's indicative that less than 10 percent of us take exercise even three times a week. A recent article in The New Republic accused the "medical-health-beauty" establishment of wielding the concept of obesity to stigmatize the nonsvelte and scare up business.
Then there is the National Association to Advance Fat Acceptance, which claims to speak for some 80 million Americans. "People think that if we wanted, we could all be thin," says Sally E. Smith, the group's executive director. "But dieting programs don't work. The more you diet, the fatter you become. Instead of how do we make fat people thin, it should be how do we make them healthy." Her position amounts to saying it's society that should change, not fat people. She's right to fight prejudice against the fat, many of whom inherit a genetic disposition that may make weight nearly as impossible for them to control as height. Fatness runs through populations like a bell-shaped curve and inevitably some of us are more bell-shaped than others. But the circumstance of individuals who cannot help being fat is quite different from that of a whole society slipping complacently into tubbiness.
The fat acceptance group is also on shaky ground in denying the ill health effects of fat. Some kinds of fat can be serious, especially for men, even though it is women who throng the fat clinics.
Some people find an excuse for our bloat in secular trends. Donald Bliwise, a sleep disorder specialist at Emory University School of Medicine, notes that Americans are getting an hour less sleep a night than they used to because of overwork. People may eat more, he suggests, to compensate for the lack of sleep.
We're fat because we work too hard? A seductive explanation, but there's little evidence to support it. We've lapsed into stoutness because we lead a sedentary life style; we slouch in front of televisions that preach instant indulgence over thrift and forbearance and we love pigging out on fat-laden foods. Is it wrong to be Rubenesque? That's a matter for moralists and arbiters of fashion. But we'd surely be healthier in not straying so extravagantly from the lean and hungry world for which nature designed us.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NAURU (79%); JAPAN (52%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NAURU (79%); JAPAN (52%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: WEIGHT FOOD CHARITIES (90%); OBESITY (90%); STARVATION (78%); DIETING (78%); TRENDS (77%); THERMAL SENSORS (71%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (67%); STATISTICS (67%); 

PERSON: WADE, NICHOLAS

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



370 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Deals and Discounts

BYLINE: By JANET PIORKO 

 BODY:

PACKAGE TO RUSSIA The Russian Travel Bureau has a series of eight-day tours to Russia through May with prices starting at $794 a person, double occupancy. The itinerary includes two nights in Moscow, overnight first-class sleeper train, two nights in St. Petersburg and a night in Helsinki. The package includes round-trip air fare from New York on Finnair, hotel with private bath, full breakfast and dinner daily in Russia, sightseeing in each city and other extras. For departures November through March, the price ranges from $794 to $999; in May, it is $1,197. For more details contact the company at (212) 986-1500 or outside New York at (800) 847-1800. 

FLIGHTS TO VEGAS Tower Air has inaugurated nonstop service from Kennedy International Airport to Las Vegas for a fare of $159 each way in economy and $234 in business class. Tax is an extra $3 each way. There are no advance purchase or minimum-stay restrictions, and no penalties for canceling or changing a ticket. Flights leave Kennedy on Sunday and Thursday mornings and return in the afternoon. Information: (718) 553-8500 or (800) 348-6937.
 
TRIMMING SUITE RATES Summerfield Suites Hotels has announced discount rates on two-bedroom suites at 17 properties across the country through Jan. 2. Rates range from $99 in Torrance, Calif., to $119 in Orlando, Fla., including Continental breakfast; the savings are 41 percent and 34 percent respectively, according to the company. The suites have two bedrooms, two bathrooms, living room and kitchen; some have convertible sofas, allowing them to sleep up to six. The offer is good at the company's six hotels in California; two in Orlando, Fla.; two in Atlanta; three in New Jersey, and one each in St. Louis; Schaumburg, Ill. (near Chicago); Malvern, Pa. (outside Philadelphia), and Herndon, Va., near Dulles Airport. In Orlando, the company is also offering a free rental of a Mitsubishi Galant sedan with unlimited mileage to guests through Dec. 15; insurance and tax are not included. The car must be reserved 24 hours in advance. Information or reservations: (800) 833-4353.
 
BERMUDA HOLIDAY The 450-room Princess and 600-room Southampton Princess hotels in Bermuda offer four-night Thanksgiving packages for guests arriving Nov. 21 to 24. Rates start at $383 a person, double occupancy, and include accommodations; Thanksgiving dinner; American breakfast daily; afternoon tea, and extras. Children 16 and under sharing their parents' room pay $93. There is an additional 6 percent tax and a tip of $41 a person for the four nights. Information and reservations: (800) 223-1818.

 TOURS TO CHINA A five-night Beijing Super Saver priced from $999 a person, double occupancy, including air fare from the West Coast, is offered by Orient Flexi-Pax Tours with United Airlines. Accommodations are at the Novotel Beijing, with American breakfast daily. The $999 price is good for departures in December, January and February, with a $100 surcharge for November and March. Air fare from the East Coast is an additional $200 round trip. Information: (800) 545-5540.
 JANET PIORKO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FINLAND (90%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (50%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); BEIJING, CHINA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FINLAND (90%); CHINA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (50%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); BEIJING, CHINA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL AIRLINES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR FARES (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); SEDANS (78%); TRAINS (73%); 

PERSON: PIORKO, JANET

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



371 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 40; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
Ten Little Houses and How They Grew

BYLINE: By Herbert Muschamp 

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio

 BODY:
THE BUILDING OF NEW MU-
seums was a major architecture story of the 1980's. Learning how to use them is turning out to be one of the big stories of the 1990's. In the past few years, a new generation of architecture and design curators have joined the staffs of American museums. They are only beginning to figure out how these institutions can best serve architecture. It is not going to be an easy process, to judge from "House Rules," a show of residential architecture at the Wexner Center for the Arts in Columbus, Ohio. This is a flawed exhibition. But it is also just the kind of experimental venture that museums with a serious commitment to architecture must support.
Up to now, the Wexner Center has presented only traveling architecture shows initiated by other museums. With "House Rules," it initiates its own architectural program, and perhaps it is not surprising that the show has much in common with the architecturally ambitious building in which it is presented. Designed by Peter Eisenman, the Wexner theoretically provides a cultural bridge between the ivory tower and the city beyond. But Eisenman's cryptic meanings probably escape those who don't work the academic side of the street. 
 "House Rules" suffers from a similar form of introversion. Though the show grapples with social issues, it disdains the pragmatic tools traditionally employed by architects to effect social change. There is little of practical value for American homemakers in this show of largely theoretical designs. There is nothing to comfort the homeless. But the show does open up an important set of questions about the right of architects to redefine what is "practical" and about the value of museum shows that help them to assert that right.
Organized by Mark Robbins, the Wexner's curator of architecture, the show sets out to explore connections between the design of houses and such social factors as race, class and sex. Each of the 10 projects on view was produced by a team of architects working in collaboration with a social critic or theorist. Ostensibly chosen to represent a rainbow of social perspectives -- feminist, gay, Latino, black -- the participating architects include Michael Sorkin; Hank Konig and Julie Eizenberg; Adobe L.A.; Henry Smith-Miller and Laurie Hawkinson; Joel Sanders, and Mabel O. Wilson. Their critic-collaborators are Joan Copjec, Bell Hooks, Margaret Crawford, Silvia Kolbowski, Jonathan Crary and Heidi J. Nast. Each team was asked to design a house for a standard 80-by-100-foot lot. Beyond that, the teams were given little guidance on how to carry out the show's ideological agenda.
Clearly, this is a highly polemical show, though the argument is somewhat veiled. At heart, it is a response to the conservative crusade for family values and to the "neo-traditional" housing in places like Seaside, Fla., which embody that crusade in architectural form. The 10 projects add up to a protest against attempts to impose rigid social norms on a diverse society. If there's any logic to the idea that private houses can perform this political function, it goes something like this: Families live in houses. Architects design them. Their designs reflect prevailing social attitudes. As those attitudes change, the designs change. And perhaps designers can accelerate social change by representing progressive attitudes in built form.
There are sound historical reasons for proceeding with this logic. The ideal home plan proposed in 1869 by Harriet Beecher Stowe and Catharine Beecher in "The American Woman's Home" recognized the emancipation of women. The open floor plan of Frank Lloyd Wright responded to the increased social informality that accompanied suburban growth. In both cases, design both reflected social changes and helped make them a reality.
But a world of difference separates these precedents from the work on view at the Wexner. Beecher and Wright were designing for the cultural mainstream. They sought to define new middle-class norms. The projects at the Wexner are pitched against the mainstream. Their designers want to break the grip of homogenized norms and allow heterogeneity to flower across the land.
Whether noble or knee-jerk, the show's social agenda is not easily translated into buildings. Aren't we reinventing the wheel here? Has there ever been a more heterogeneously housed nation than present-day America? Lofts, log cabins, luxury high-rises, trailers, brownstones, ranch houses, studios, Victorian charmers, inner-city casitas, bungalows: American architecture is already far more diverse than the society it houses. Pay your mortgage, take your choice.
Nor do we lack a sign language to identify the subcultural affiliations of those who dwell within. From the mezuza by the door to the political sticker in the window, there is no shortage of symbols with which residents can proclaim their identities to the outside world. Of course, when architects begin to prescribe such devices, they run the risk of perpetuating social stereotypes.
For the most part, the Wexner projects studiously avoid this risk. The designs emphasize flexibility and openness as architectural metaphors for an enlightened society that has progressed beyond pigeonholes. But such a neutral approach contradicts the show's underlying premise that buildings should reflect cultural difference. And weren't flexibility and openness already hallmarks of the neutral modern house?
There's another contradiction in this show. Diversity is not encompassed by individual visions. It results from a multiplicity of visions, many of them incompatible. In theory, one might expect 10 individual architects to produce 10 very different projects. But many of the projects on view are quite similar. Most of the collaborating social critics have been strongly influenced by literary deconstruction. While only three of the projects resemble the deconstructionist esthetic of architects like Zaha Hadid and Coop Himmelblau, all of them are, in effect, "deconstructions" of the single-family dwelling unit. It is hard to see how diversity would gain by lifting people out of Seaside and setting them down in Decon City.
Architects should be developing alternatives to the neo-traditional models. But "House Rules" does not propose genuine alternatives. What it presents, rather, are examples of a hermetic, self-sufficient strain of contemporary architectural culture, one so self-absorbed that it neither expects nor desires to make a significant impact on the material world. Instead, this strain finds fulfillment in the realm of the school, the museum and the academic publication. How can these architects present alternatives if they inhabit another sphere altogether?
One project, "House, 20 June 1994," made the whole show worth doing, and it clicked not only because of an eminently sensible design -- a complex of four units grouped around a central courtyard -- but because the collaboration took the form of disagreement. Julie Eizenberg, an architect whose firm has produced some of the most impressive housing in Los Angeles in recent years, is a pragmatist with little patience for theoretical convolutions.
What architects need to reckon with, Ms. Eizenberg wrote to Bell Hooks, her collaborating critic, is not theory but "planning regulations, banks, economics and structures for the protection of personal assets." Ms. Hooks, in reply, insisted that architecture is influenced by theories, whether they are explicitly stated or concealed, and that it's better to be aware of them. The exchange, reproduced on a Plexiglas box containing the model, conveyed a completeness of vision that the show as a whole did not. Together, the architect and the writer discovered that architecture is a medium with a unique capacity to connect the conceptual and material realms.
OTHERWISE, "HOUSE RULES"
illustrates a breakdown in that connection. It suggests that the most conceptually sophisticated young architects today are unable or unwilling to embrace the practical tools of their profession. While the Wexner deserves credit for exposing that breakdown, it would be even more commendable if the museum helped repair it. Instead of match-making architects with theorists, why not pair them with developers or public officials? Don't architects have enough theories of their own? Surely the architects at the Wexner don't seem to be running short.
The issue isn't whether architects should be designing conceptual projects. It is what museums should be doing with them. Sixty years ago, when the Museum of Modern Art pioneered the idea of presenting architecture in an art museum, it pursued a twofold mission: educating the public and persuading builders and manufacturers to embrace modern design. This mission wasn't the result of excess ambition. It reflected the view that architecture differs fundamentally from painting and sculpture; it finds fulfillment not within a museum's finite frame of esthetic experience but in the world beyond it. That theory is worth holding onto.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The kitchen of "Sight Specific," above, a project at the Wexner Center, and at right, "House, 20 June 1994" -- Flexibility as a metaphor for a society that has gone beyond pigeonholes. (Wexner Center for the Arts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WEXNER CENTER FOR THE ARTS WEXNER CENTER (88%); HOUSE RULES (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEXNER CENTER FOR THE ARTS WEXNER CENTER (88%); HOUSE RULES (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (71%); FAMILY (66%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT PETER EISENMAN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



372 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 5; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2525 words

HEADLINE: Breakthroughs That Conquer Space

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
COMPLETELY hemmed in by their two young children's large plastic cars and plastic make-believe Dutch door and plastic house and pile of strollers, Lynda and Steve DeLott wait eagerly until they can knock a door through to their neighbor's apartment, which they have a contract to buy.
As their older son sleeps a few feet away, in what was once the dining alcove, they whisper: "Only three more days until we close, and then the adults are taking back the living room." 
 Sixteen blocks south, Elizabeth B. Grant says that since the archway was cut in the wall connecting the living room of her two-bedroom rental apartment to the living room of the rental studio next door, she doesn't feel so claustrophobic.
"I sat in that chair last Sunday and wrote my whole psychology paper," she said, surveying what has become a 24-foot expanse. "I never would have done that before."
High above the traffic at 64th Street and West End Avenue, Peter Claman, an architect who has worked in New York City for 40 years, points to a switch panel and some pipe risers in the skeleton of a fast-rising rental tower.
"We now design apartments so people can combine them," he said. "We keep the major electrical and plumbing out of the way, and we lay out adjoining apartments so the right rooms line up to make sense when the apartments are joined."
Combining apartments, it seems, has become a Manhattan trend.
From parents who only a few years ago would unhesitatingly have moved to the suburbs, to wealthy couples who have developed a taste for 40-foot drawing rooms, there are, real-estate brokers say, more people than ever out there looking for more space.
Real estate agents are knocking on the doors next to apartments that have been stagnating on the market, often explaining to the surprised neighbors that if they agree to offer their apartment for sale at the same time they may be able to make more money than if they tried to sell their apartment by itself. As a combination, agents say, the apartments can be sold a lot faster.
"THE sum is greater than two parts," said one agent, echoing verbatim the comments of three others.
In some cases joining apartments is actually restoration. Apartments in buildings erected around the turn of the century often were split up into several smaller apartments, which landlords found easier to rent in the post-Depression era, although the floor plans seemed a little truncated.
Even in the heyday of the late 80's these cut-up apartments -- by then turned into co-ops -- were hard to sell, but as the recession hit, their awkward layouts made it even harder to attract buyers.
Co-op boards in these once-grand buildings may now encourage combining apartments, notably when the separate apartments were one in the original layout. There are currently two apartments for sale in the Dorilton, at Broadway and 71st Street, that, if combined, would reattach an almost unsalable back apartment with two bedrooms, and another bedroom pressed into service as a living room, to its much more elegant front half -- which suffered from a lack of bedrooms. The apartments, which together total 2,750 square feet, are being offered together for $599,000.
Similarly, an original 2,000-square-foot, eight-room apartment at 160 Riverside Drive, at 88th Street, that had been split into two apartments recently was reunited at a closing, selling for $490,000.
The New York City Department of Buildings acknowledges the trend and has proposed legislation to make it easier for landlords and co-op and condominium owners alike to merge apartments.
In an effort to stop apartment dwellers who had bought or rented the adjoining apartment from ripping out walls illegally -- without building permits -- Joel A. Miele Sr., the Buildings Commissioner, wants to cut down the time it takes to get city approval for such work.
"We want to make it so easy for the customer that he won't even consider going around the process," said Mr. Miele, whose proposed changes would let the tenants' licensed architects and engineers give the go-ahead to start work without waiting for time-consuming city building inspections. The legislation to change the city's Building Code is being reviewed by the city's Corporation Counsel.
Thus far, the urge to combine apartments seems to be mostly limited to Manhattan, according to a Buildings Department spokesman, who speculated that this was because most large apartment buildings were there. In brownstones and rowhouses, requests to combine apartments are rare, the official said.
C. B. Whyte, a real estate agent with Ambrose Mar-Elia, said the first flurry of combining apartments began in the late 80's in postwar buildings east of Lexington Avenue on the Upper East Side, which were designed with mostly one-bedroom apartments.
"For whatever reason -- either a good rental deal or they weren't able to sell -- people who would have moved out decided to annex the next apartment and stay in the building," said Ms. Whyte, who has participated in the sale of two combinations recently. Many of the new combinations, she said, are made by young couples with toddlers "who can't afford to move to Park Avenue," where large prewar apartments have been left intact.
In the case of the DeLotts, it was a mixture of not being able to sell their one-bedroom apartment and a hard-fought decision -- which Lynda DeLott insisted upon and Steve DeLott is continually rethinking -- not to move to the suburbs and, instead, to enroll their 4 1/2-year-old, Joshua, in a Manhattan school next year.
"I HAD a lot of reservations," said Mr. DeLott, an associate with one of Manhattan's blue-chip law firms. "Maybe buying the apartment next door will become part of an exit strategy. We tried to sell our apartment, but we paid $212,000 at the height of the market, August 1988."
"We figured we'd start at what we paid, then we dropped it to $205,000, then to $199,000 and then we stopped," he continued. "We weren't getting offers, or I guess we got a couple but any offer we got would've required us taking a $40,000 or $50,000 loss."
Then the DeLotts were approached by their neighbor Lenore Kramer, who is moving to Sutton Place.
"I thought he was a natural," Ms. Kramer said, referring to Mr. DeLott. "He's in that little apartment, but at first he said, 'Nah, we're moving to the suburbs.' I put the apartment on the market for six months and I was just about to rent it out. My phone rang off the hook -- nobody wants to buy, everybody wants to rent -- but two days before I was going to rent he knocked on my door."
The DeLotts are buying Ms. Kramer's adjoining apartment for $161,000, "significantly lower than her original asking price," Mr. DeLott said. The deal was "done in five minutes," Ms. Kramer added.
They were lucky because the two apartments fit well together. Their bedroom exactly lines up with Ms. Kramer's master bedroom, making an easy pass-through. The DeLotts' present bedroom will become their formal dining room, while their dining alcove will become the library. Ms. Kramer's apartment will house the combined apartment's three bedrooms.
For the present, the DeLotts will leave the kitchen in the Kramer apartment, taking advantage of a large loophole in the city building code. By making the connecting door a fire door and leaving the kitchen intact, the DeLotts will not have to file for a certificate of occupancy change: "You can take two apartments and open a door and it'll still remain two apartments," Mr. Miele, the Buildings Commissioner, said. "If they take out the kitchen, it then can no longer be occupied by two separate tenants so you're reducing the number of apartments in the building."
The DeLotts were also lucky because maintenance charges in their building, 425 East 79th Street, are relatively low, making a combined monthly payment of $1,573, considered low for a full three bedrooms and a formal dining room with 1,800 square feet.
Their decision, they say, is hardly unusual.
"It's catching on," said Ms. DeLott, a lawyer who has chosen not to practice while the children are young.
"Friends with a two-bedroom on East 73d off Third had their third child a year ago," she said, "but the wife wasn't ready to move to the suburbs so they went to the woman who lived in the studio next door and offered her money to leave. She left."
"Other friends bought a two-bedroom at a bank foreclosure," she continued. "They're trying to unload their junior four and if they do, they'll buy the apartment next to the two-bedroom and break through, but they won't do that until they sell theirs."
SUCH juggling can pay off, real estate agents say. If the layout is good and the maintenance is reasonable, the combined apartment often brings more money than the two separate apartments.
Even if the separate maintenances are high, the combined maintenance may end up being reasonable because two additional bedrooms may be gained by converting the second living room and the second kitchen to bedrooms. Thus, one two-bedroom apartment plus another two-bedroom apartment can become a six-bedroom apartment, or a five-bedroom plus den or formal dining room.
According to I. Dolly Lenz, a Sotheby's agent who specializes in big condominiums, combinations have been occurring at such notable condominium buildings as Trump Tower, Museum Tower, Olympic Tower and the Galleria. At 1049 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, Jack Heller, the owner, is working with Ms. Lenz to design and market a combination of two high-floor 3,350-square-foot apartments, which are being converted into a duplex.
Ms. Lenz said that the separate apartments, which had not sold, were being marketed separately, at a total of $3.5 million.
"They were nice-sized apartments but not big enough," she said. The new combination will list for $4.5 million.
Ms. Lenz said combining apartments "never occurred to people five years ago."
"They just sold their apartment and moved," she said. "But that was because they could sell at a profit."
BOTH real estate agents and lawyers specializing in residential real estate caution anyone considering buying the apartment next to, underneath or above their own to check out several issues carefully before signing a contract to buy.
"Ideally, you should try to get the contract of sale conditioned on approval of the board of directors to combine the apartments," said Mark E. Zimmerman, a midtown lawyer who specializes in real estate matters. Conceding that the likelihood of a seller's signing such a contract was "slim," he said the next best thing was to check to see if the board had allowed other tenants to combine apartments.
Combining apartments reduces the total number of units in a building and almost always requires a change in its certificate of occupancy. Any changes requiring building permits need the approval of the co-op or condominium board. For a certificate of occupancy change, the city may require new plans of the whole building, as well as a rigorous new inspection for code violations.
"Some of the older buildings may not welcome such an inspection," said Deanna Kory, the Halstead Property Company's top-selling agent, who noted that in the last year she had seen more separate apartments being combined than ever.
At 60 Riverside Drive, at 78th Street, Ms. Kory said, one woman is leaving a four-bedroom apartment she created by merging two apartments and is moving to a five-bedroom in the same building that she created by combining three apartments. Ms. Kory called 60 Riverside a "combination-friendly building."
But even if a building is "combination friendly," Ms. Kory and Mr. Zimmerman said, mortgage banks may not be. Bankers, Mr. Zimmerman said, may not understand or believe that buying two apartments with two separate entrances and two kitchens isn't being done strictly as an investment, a venture they are reluctant to finance. The banks may even require an escrow deposit in the amount of the work projected to remove the second kitchen and make other necessary improvements.
"BUYERS should get their financing lined up in advance," the lawyer said.
With rentals, it can be even more time-consuming as tenants wait for a rent-stabilized neighor to move.
Elizabeth Grant, a student, and her husband, David, a Manhattan public relations agent, first asked their landlord about renting the studio next door in combination with their own two-bedroom apartment at 250 East 63d Street in 1986. Within hours, they said, the landlord put under their door a floor plan showing the combined apartments. But like their own apartment, the studio next door was rent stabilized and it took until this year for the man who occupied it to move out.
"We spent months wrangling over the new rent," said Ms. Grant, explaining that with such a deal the rent on the studio rises to market value and that when she first called the landlord, "I offered him a figure and he accepted. Then he called back a couple of days later and raised the price by $300 a month, but I accepted because I was afraid we'd lose it."
Under rent regulations, it can be to the landlord's advantage to agree to such a combination. When two apartments are combined, accompanied by the major work such a change usually entails, the rent for the combined apartment may rise to market value, according to a spokesman for the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, which oversees rent regulation. Once the new rent is set, that amount is stabilized, he said. If the landlord had merely rented out the newly vacated studio, he would have been allowed to raise the rent a maximum of 9 percent above what the former tenant had paid.
Ms. Grant declined to say what rent she was paying for either apartment, but said that the addition of the studio doubled their previous rent for the two-bedroom. To create the large archway connecting the two apartments, complete with carpentry, paint and the reinstallation of several electrical outlets, cost the Grants about $5,000.
CHARLENE KEOGH, a Manhattan interior designer currently working on three combinations -- including the Grants' -- gave the following estimates for typical costs associated with joining apartments:
* Filing and permit fees, plus the fees of a building-code consultant and an expediter: $3,000 to $5,000.
* Removing the second kitchen's cabinets and capping the plumbing pipes: $100 per cabinet and $150 each to remove the sink and dishwasher.
* Installing a closet in what had been the second living room to make it a bedroom: $1,600 to $2,000 for a 5-foot-long closet with light and standard pole and shelves.
With the demolition of the second kitchen and the renovation of both bathrooms, plus hiring an interior designer, a code consultant and an expediter to help with the bureaucracy for a certificate of occupancy change, the Grants now have made a sizable investment in a rented apartment.
"I've never thought of it as anything other than our home," said Ms. Grant. " Still . . . " She paused and laughed, "with what we put into this apartment, they're going to have to carry me out of here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lynda and Steve DeLott with their children, Joshua, top, and Maxwell, in the living room of their apartment on East 72d Street. The DeLotts are looking forward to breaking through to the next-door apartment to ease crowding. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Diagram: "Back to the Future" shows the floorplans of two apartments at Broadway and 71st. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (50%); BUILDINGS DEPARTMENT (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUILDINGS DEPARTMENT (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANHATTAN (NYC); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; APARTMENT HOUSES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



373 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Keeping Budgets Honest

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS 

 BODY:
A REGULAR fall ritual in New York City co-ops is the budgeting process. This time around, some major concerns are looming as officers and managers make their projections for 1995.
Those concerns include rapidly rising water and sewer charges and increased scrutiny of budgets by lenders and prospective buyers. Moreover, opportunities to keep maintenance from rising are dwindling as some costs that had stabilized or dropped in the last five years -- interest rates, fuel, insurance, among others -- begin once again to inch upwards. 
 All of which means that shareholders should prepare for a maintenance increase over and above what might have been customary in recent years.
The added scrutiny by lenders and buyers, said Stephen Beer, a partner with Czarnowski & Beer, Manhattan accountants specializing in co-ops, is a natural outgrowth of the financial problems that co-ops have been facing. It will require more accurate forecasting to avoid losing credibility in the marketplace.
"It used to be location, location, location," said Mr. Beer. "Now it's becoming financials, financials, financials. Nobody ever used to ask for the budget before. Now I get requests all the time."
Buyers and lenders expect to see at least $100,000 in a reserve fund, or $2,000 to $5,000 per unit, and mortgage debt under $20,000 to $40,000 per unit, Mr. Beer said. If that is not the case, the budget may need to bolster the amount set aside for capital reserves and for paying down the principal on an underlying mortgage.
If it turns out that the co-op is continuing to underestimate its line-item costs -- even if enough cash is in the bank at the end of the year to cover any shortfall -- it raises a red flag and that is "going to look very bad," predicted Mr. Beer.
Stuart M. Saft, chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives, agreed. In the documents accompanying newly financed underlying mortgages, he said, lenders are demanding a break-even budget and the right to intrude on the board's own determinations, yet another reaction to the co-op turmoil of the early 90's.
In addition, he said, the co-ops should also start a regular pattern of half-yearly reviews to see where adjustments may be needed before the numbers get out of hand, even if this means raising maintenance charges in midyear.
He further recommended discounting anticipated maintenance income to allow for continued shareholder defaults. The percentage of income the co-op lost during 1993 could serve as an estimate, he said.
Although it has never been customary for co-ops to include a contingency amount -- since this puts added pressure on maintenance charges -- it might now be advisable, Mr. Saft said, to include a cushion of anywhere from 5 to 10 percent.
Another way to keep the budget looking good, said Mr. Beer, is to set up a separate account for the larger bills that are paid quarterly or yearly, like taxes and insurance, so there's always enough cash on hand when these come due. He said he had seen too many co-ops unable to meet these larger charges in a timely fashion because cash on hand was temporarily too low. This way, $500 might be set aside each month, say, for a $6,000 yearly charge.
The only good news results from state legislation earlier this summer that altered the way real estate taxes were calculated for Class II properties, which cover the city's co-ops and condominiums.
A result should be a saving of about 45 cents for each $1,000 of assessment during the first half of 1995, said Mary Ann Rothman, executive director of the Council of New York Cooperatives. And it should lessen any potential rise for the remainder of that year.
But Ms. Rothman said that treasurers and managers should confirm that the tax escrow collected by the holders of the building's underlying mortgage had been adjusted downwards to reflect those changes. Labor costs should similarly stabilize as a result of the most recent union agreements, she said.
Water and sewer charges are among key costs that may continue to rise during 1995, predicted Barry Manson, president of ABM Management of Great Neck, L.I. "Every one of our buildings has seen a doubling of these costs over the past eight years whether they changed over to meters or not," he said. And with no effort to challenge those increases on an industrywide basis, he said, everyone is left wide open to further price rises. He recommends a 9 percent increase for water and sewer costs. However, Steven Ostrega, executive director of the New York City Water Board, does not expect the increase to exceed 5.5 percent.
Insurance is another charge widely predicted to increase. Co-ops have saved substantial amounts over the last seven years as premiums regularly declined because of competitive price-cutting. That benefit is now gone.
Carla Vel, vice president of Kaye Insurance Associates of Manhattan, which also specializes in co-ops, warned that the underwriters had to rebuild reserves as a result of large payouts stemming from the unusual number of recent natural disasters -- storms, hurricanes, floods and earthquakes. They cannot afford to make further cuts in premiums, she maintained. But she doesn't expect them to rise by more than 5 percent.
Management costs may also rise as those managers who used to take kickbacks from vendors cannot count on this added income anymore, putting an upward pressure on legitimate salaries. The extensive investigation by the Attorney General of those kickbacks -- which has been continuing all year -- may also cause the demise of certain firms, lessening competition.
Oskar Brecher, president of American Landmark Management, argues that management costs may go up by as much as 10 percent for yet another reason. Sales operations at management companies used to subsidize management, he said, but now the two functions are increasingly being separated as sales divisions are no longer willing to see their profits undercut to make up for management contract shortfalls.
Mr. Brecher further warned that repairs might cost more as the bidding process also comes into the open -- another result of the management kickback scandals.
"When you have to make a formal bid for a job you tend to charge more just to make sure," he said.
However, a contrary argument could be made suggesting that the elimination -- or near elimination -- of kickbacks should actually lower contract costs.
A more complete discussion of the 1995 budgeting process is available by attending a workshop called "The Budget," part of the 14th annual conference of the Council of New York Cooperatives. The workshop is scheduled for 11:30 A.M. to 1 P.M. on Sunday, Nov. 13, at Hunter College. Call the Council at (212) 496-7400 for further details.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING REAL ESTATE (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE STEPHEN BEER (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



374 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 15; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Stamford, Conn.;
From Corporate Campus to Service-Industry Hub

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
LAST month, when Swiss Bank announced it would leave New York for Stamford, Conn., it was big news in both cities. New York, still smarting from the defection of small-but-high-profile Mastercard to Westchester, now faces the prospect that 1,300 Swiss Bank jobs -- and 700 planned new ones -- will vanish up Interstate 95. Stamford not only gets the jobs, but also a new office complex in a seedy part of town.
Stamford officials and landlords profess delight, but not surprise. After all, Connecticut gave Swiss Bank tax breaks that could amount to $120 million over 10 years. And, they note, Swiss Bank is just the latest -- albeit the largest -- company leaving New York for Stamford these days. 
 "Swiss Bank is just an exclamation mark to what is happening here," said H. Darrell Harvey, president of The Ashforth Company, a Stamford real estate concern.
Indeed, Stamford is going through a renaissance. According to Christopher P. Bruhl, president of the Business Council of Southwestern Connecticut, more than 300 companies have relocated to Fairfield County -- most to Stamford -- in the last five years. Very few of those, Mr. Bruhl notes, were given incentives to come.
"Those relocations aren't because of incentives or cheap rents," Mr. Bruhl said. "If you want cheap, you go to Brazil or North Carolina. We're about value."
Stamford afficionados predict even more newcomers in Swiss Bank's wake.
"All the service companies that will follow, the accounting firms, the legal firms, even the messenger services, will gobble up the remaining space," said Michael J. Cacace, a partner in Cacace, Tusch & Santagata, a Stamford law firm.
Apparently, investors believe that, too. In the last few years Zell/Merrill Lynch has spent $132 million to buy five office buildings. Equity Office Properties has paid $146.45 million for another five Stamford buildings and has been renovating them.
"We feel all of these buildings are undervalued assets and that the Stamford market has hit bottom," said Patrick Lerch, Equity's northeast regional manager.
Stamford's nascent revival is being actively nurtured. Local officials persuaded the state to put a University of Connecticut campus in downtown Stamford, at the site of a closed Bloomingdale's. A new cultural center has opened. So have nightclubs, discos and restaurants that cater to a young, lively crowd. The train station will be getting a $50 million overhaul next year, which will double its capacity for trains by 1998.
BUT all that is nothing compared to Stamford's overhaul in self-image. Over the years, the city has gradually metamorphosed from an old-line manufacturing center into a service industry hub. The Business Council's statistics show that employment in finance, insurance and real estate -- the so-called FIRE sector -- in the greater Stamford area has grown 45 percent in the last five years.
"This area has a tremendously well-educated, highly professional labor pool," said Mr. Harvey. "Those companies that can afford to tap into it are getting the best."
The new service emphasis has been a wrenching change for Stamford. During the 60's and 70's, Stamford evolved into a corporate campus city, a place where industrial companies like Olin, Xerox and Combustion Engineering built palace-like headquarters. Lawyers, accountants and others looking to serve the industrial behemoths soon followed. Well-paid executives for those companies moved nearby, to parts of Stamford and to such neighboring communities as Greenwich, New Canaan, Darien and Westport. For no small reason is Fairfield County known as Connecticut's Gold Coast.
But in the late 80's the lagging economy forced many corporations to cut staff, and thus space. Many others subscribed to the growing belief that American corporations had too many layers of management. They, too, began pruning their staffs.
The effects of downsizing, as well as of the highway congestion that had accompanied the earlier expansion, rippled throughout Stamford. Many downtown stores closed or moved to the Stamford Mall. The F. D. Rich Company, for decades Stamford's premier office-building developer, lost its buildings to its lenders one by one.
"By 1991 Stamford real estate was dead in the water," said Anthony E. Malkin, president of W & M Properties, which owns two Class A office buildings in the city.
The aftershocks continue. According to the Edward S. Gordon Company, the real estate concern, the International Business Machines Corporation, Olin and ABB Combustion Engineering returned more than 650,000 square feet to the Fairfield County market in the second quarter of 1994.
Cummings & Lockwood, perhaps the area's largest law firm, Champion International and Lone Star Industries each put big blocks of space on the market for sublet. GTE and other companies that are not looking for sublet tenants have nonetheless shrunk enough to rattle around in their buildings.
BUT the good news has been considerable, too. Stamford never relied heavily on now-beleaguered industries like military contracting. GE Capital, now its leading corporate citizen, has expanded to several buildings and is buying Olin's 277,000-square-foot headquarters.
A few other large companies are looking at Stamford with renewed interest. Brokers say Elizabeth Arden is looking for 100,000 square feet and that two computer-related companies are also looking for large chunks of space. Swiss Bank is expected to rent more than 100,000 square feet of interim space while its new downtown complex is being built.
And Stamford has been enjoying the same "flight to quality" that buoyed much of Manhattan's midtown during the recession. Small companies found they could move into a premier Stamford building like Metro Center or the General Reinsurance building for annual rents in the low $20's per square foot and operating costs that, at about $8 to $10, are half what they are in midtown.
"Twenty dollars will buy you a lot more here than in Manhattan," said Michael Trolle, a first vice president of the CB Commercial real estate brokerage.
"Stamford has become a place where 5,000-square-foot deals are the norm and where a 30,000-foot tenant can drive a hard bargain," said Michael Siegel, an executive director of Edward S. Gordon.
The influx of smaller companies has lent a new aura of stability to the market.
"In the 80's, four tenants moving could mean 600,000 square feet of vacant space," said Mr. Malkin. "Today, you'd have to lose 30 tenants before you had a 150,000-foot vacancy. It's the end of the corporate elephant as the dominant factor."
INDEED, owners are actively courting smaller companies. Realty Venture Capital Associates recently bought a 140,000-square-foot Stamford office building from its lenders. Harold Siegelaub, a general partner, says he thinks the going market in town for space in a property like his is about $22 a foot. "But," he says, "I'll do $3 or even $5 a foot better for a software company, a marketing firm, any company in a business that I feel will grow with us."
And tenants, do, indeed, grow. JMW Consultants moved from about 5,000 square feet in midtown Manhattan to 15,000 square feet in Metro Center in July. "We came because of real estate values, but we love it here now," said one JMW employee.
Thompson Publishing's information publishing group moved from Park Avenue, where its corporate headquarters was, to Metro Center in 1989 because "there was no business reason to be in New York City, so why pay twice the rental," said Gerald D. Tenser, a vice president. Since then Thompson has brought over an operation from Teaneck, N.J., and is about to move its headquarters staff to Stamford.
"Yes, there's an energy level, excitement, work pace in New York that we don't get here," Mr. Tenzer concedes. "Frankly, it's boring. But it costs less, and the quality of life is just terrific."
Indeed, even shrinking companies seem disinclined to move out. Savin Corporation, an office machine company, emerged from bankruptcy in December. It has moved from a total of 37,000 square feet in two Stamford buildings into 26,000 square feet in a third Stamford building.
"We're in a building with a health club, a sundry shop, a cafeteria, and we even got an incentive from the state to stay," said a Savin spokeswoman, Louise Stix.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stamford is again attracting investment. (Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times); Harold Siegelaub of Realty Venture Capital Associates at building his concern bought. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (55%); MER (NYSE) (55%); 8675 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (55%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: CACACE TUSCH & SANTAGATA (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (55%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); RESTAURANTS (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (63%); TRAINS (63%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



375 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester;
For Commercial Leasing, '94 Has Been a Good Year

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

 BODY:
WHEN Mastercard made it official last month that it would move its headquarters from Manhattan to a former I.B.M. building in Purchase, brokers predicted the move would result in a sharp decrease in the year-end office vacancy rates and an overall market rebound that might last into the middle of 1995.
Mastercard is expected to complete the purchase of the 472,000-square-foot building at 2000 Purchase Street by Nov. 30, said Michael H. Siegel, executive director of the Westchester/Fairfield offices of the Edward S. Gordon Company of White Plains, which is handling the sale for the International Business Machines Corporation. 
 That deal -- coupled with the expected signing of a lease by the Ciba Corporation, the chemical company, by the end of the year for 575,000 square feet in Tarrytown -- could result in a decrease of 4 percentage points in the vacancy rate, Mr. Siegel predicted.
According to the Edward S. Gordon Company, the vacancy rate for the third quarter of this year is 20.8 percent, down slightly from 21 percent the same time last year. Other concerns that track vacancy rates are also reporting steady levels and overall vacancy rates hovering in the low 20's.
"The Mastercard and Ciba deals alone represent one million square feet of space," Mr. Siegel said. "And we've already had one million square feet of space leased so far this year. We're on track to have one of the best years in Westchester since numbers have been recorded, which started in the late 1970's."
Mr. Seigel and other brokers cautioned, however, that just as a few good deals could make the picture look suddenly bright, the reverse could happen if one or two companies decided to vacate a large block of space.
Nynex has already announced its plans to vacate two buildings, 1111 and 1113 Westchester Avenue in Harrison with a total of 350,000 square feet, by the middle of next year. That move affects 800 employees who, the company said, will be relocated to Manhattan.
"We won't feel that impact until the middle of 1995," Mr. Seigel said. "So maybe there's just this little window of time where things will look very positive."
The overall feeling in the market is that while corporate consolidations will continue, they will not happen at the same rate or be as large as in previous years. In the third quarter, for instance, I.B.M. vacated 134,156 square feet at two sites and Nynex decided to sublease 40,000 square feet.
Vacancy rates have held steady, brokers say, because of a higher-than-expected volume of leasing. According to the CB Commercial Real Estate Group, in White Plains, in the first three quarters of this year a total of 1.6 million square feet was leased. "That's excellent leasing activity in any year," said Frank Tomasulo, first vice president with the company. "That's the best we've seen in the last 10 years."
ANOTHER positive sign brokers point to is the size of the average transaction. "We're seeing a greater number of 10,000- to 20,000-square-foot deals," said Terry Brown, a managing director at Cushman & Wakefield. "Recently the Westchester market has been dominated by 2,000- to 5,000-square-foot deals. The appearance of more midsize companies is what we've been seeing in Fairfield County for a while now. It's a healthy sign and shows a broader and more diverse base."
One of the largest transactions in the third quarter, reported by Edward S. Gordon, was the purchase of a 51,000-square-foot building in Mount Kisco by the Northern Westchester Center for the Arts, which had been looking for a new home for six years. Last month, the not-for-profit organization moved from 4,000 square feet in Goldens Bridge.
"We had outgrown that space a long time ago," said Bira Rabushka, executive director of the center.
Yet with so much space available in the county, the center still had a great deal of trouble finding the right place. "Sometimes we had problems with the neighbors who didn't want an arts center in their backyard," Ms. Rabushka said. "In some cases, the building was right, but the location was wrong."
The building was bought at auction for $775,000, said Ms. Rabushka. And even though the organization has increased its space more than tenfold, she said, "we already have every square inch earmarked."
The center is now trying to raise $3 million to make needed repairs and refurbish the interior to create a "multi-arts space," Ms. Rabushka said.
Some of the other larger deals in the third quarter included Avon Products, which expanded to 35,000 square feet in Rye, and Marshall Cavendish Corporation, the publishing company, which acquired 31,477 square feet in Tarrytown.
"THERE'S no question that the larger company is interested in Westchester," said Mr. Tomasulo. "I'm talking with Fuji Photo Film U.S.A., which would take 100,000 square feet and Allstate, which wants 25,000."
In recent months, several companies have been in contact with the county's Office of Commerce and Economic Development, according to Margaret Soter, director of the office, who said, "We're busier than ever."
Ms. Soter said that five "very large companies" had recently expressed interest in moving to Westchester. "These companies each represent hundreds of jobs," she said.
Ms. Soter attributes some of the interest to the publicity attending the Mastercard move. "It's had a very positive effect," she said "It's an image-building thing."
Nevertheless, the main reason companies like Mastercard and others eventually move to Westchester is to save money, according to John Rostenberg, principal of Rostenberg-Doern, a commercial brokerage in Purchase.
"The time is right because New York City's rents are rising," he said. "And with the market there tightening, companies can now find tenants for the space they have."
If present trends continue, Mr. Rostenberg added, Class A space will no longer be available. "That's when you'll start to see build-to-suit construction starting again, which is something we haven't seen in several years," he said. "I wouldn't be surprised if companies were taking out old plans and dusting them off. It might not happen this year or even next, but it will happen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bira Rabushka of the Northern Westchester Center for the Arts in dance space at Mount Kisco building. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (93%); IBMC (BRU) (85%); IBM (NYSE) (85%); IBM (LSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (93%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (93%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (93%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (85%); CB COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE GROUP INC (60%); NORTHERN WESTCHESTER CENTER (88%); COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE GROUP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHERN WESTCHESTER CENTER (88%); COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE GROUP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); PURCHASE (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (88%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); LEASING INDUSTRY (74%); CHEMICALS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CHEMICALS MFG (69%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (50%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



376 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: The Oil-Futures Bloodbath: Is the Bank the Culprit?

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
IT'S a classic mystery twist: No sooner do the police arrest the obvious suspect than a brainy private eye comes on the scene and says that they've got the wrong guy -- the real villain is innocent-looking Mr. X.
That's more or less the latest turn in a real life financial whodunit involving a $1.3 billion loss from trading in oil futures, Germany's most powerful bank and the New York subsidiary of one of Germany's largest industrial concerns. 
 Last winter, when Deutsche Bank whisked Metallgesellschaft, a sprawling metals and oil conglomerate, from the brink of ruin, most observers accepted the bank's version of events: A bunch of financial cowboys at Metallgesellschaft's American subsidiary, MG Refining and Marketing, were making hugely risky bets with oil futures. When an unexpected plunge in oil prices threatened staggering losses, Deutsche Bank, Metallgesellschaft's biggest shareholder and creditor and the power behind the company's supervisory board, did what it had to do: It fired the old management, brought in a SWAT team to liquidate the bets, installed a new management and lent the company money to cover the losses.
That was last winter. Now, three American financial sleuths -- Nobel Prize-winning economist Merton Miller, former bank examiner and doctoral candidate Christopher Culp and futures and options expert Steve Hanke -- are saying that far from being the good guy, Deutsche Bank is the culprit. It misunderstood a prudent, fully hedged oil marketing strategy, they contend, and, in a blind panic, sold off the hedges with catastrophic consequences.
"They thought it was an oil bet that had gone sour," said Professor Miller, who is on the faculty of the University of Chicago's business school. "But that's not what happened. They cut the hedge off too soon. If they had done things right, they wouldn't have lost $1.3 billion."
Mr. Hanke, a professor at Johns Hopkins, added, "Old management was doing a very clever hedging program. It was people on top that did precisely the wrong things."
Normally, traders, dealers and other financial market pros don't pay much attention to "pointy headed intellectuals" -- Professor Miller's term -- but the professors' analysis, contained in several articles, has had an electric effect. When it surfaced this fall, investors hammered Metallgesell schaft and Deutsche Bank stock -- and Metallgesellschaft's new management, along with Ronaldo H. Schmitz, the Deutsche Bank director who is chairman of Metallgesellschaft's supervisory board, fired back.
A news conference last week in Frankfurt, called by Metallgesellschaft to criticize a draft of one of the Miller-Culp articles, shows just how raw a nerve the academics struck. At the conference, senior executives of Metallgesellschaft handed out their own paper, which said that while the professors' theoretical points were valid, "where Miller and Culp go wrong is moving from theory to reality." Metallgesellschaft would have faced a $50 billion loss if it hadn't liquidated the hedges, the executives said.
"Preposterous," was Professor Miller's reply. "I deny the allegations and I defy the allegators."
As for Deutsche Bank, when asked for comment about the flap last week, a spokesman, Helmut Hartmann, said, "It is not a Deutsche Bank matter. It is a Metallgesell schaft matter. We have no comment."
One reason for all the commotion is that many people in banking and oil were already privately questioning the official account. "Nobody else could say it publicly," said Mark C. Brickell, a Wall Street banker. Merton Miller, Mr. Brickell added, "has his Nobel Prize, he has tenure. He doesn't have anything to lose except his reputation as an intellectual."
THE stakes in the debate are huge. The German and American governments are investigating the Metallgesellschaft debacle. Several lawsuits are in the works. Conceivably, Deutsche Bank could wind up being liable for the loss, as could the old management at Metallgesellschaft.
The howls of outrage delight Mr. Miller, a witty, fast-talking Boston native who compares himself to military historians who come in after "the smoke, noise and confusion have cleared" and draw "the diagrams with the triangles and arrows."
Professor Miller, a public director of the Mercantile Exchange in Chicago and an ardent fan of free markets, was drawn to the Metallgesellschaft affair as much by the fear that the scandal would prompt a wave of regulation as by sheer curiosity.
"We in the futures industry in Chicago wouldn't be paranoid if people weren't always picking on us," he said.
Sitting in his cluttered office last February, Mr. Miller asked Mr. Culp to help him look into the case. Both men thought it would make a nifty assignment for a graduate futures and options course.
Their first discovery, based on court documents, was that MG Refining and Marketing seemed to have been engaged in a hedging strategy rather than simple speculation. "I could understand how you can lose $1.3 billion by speculation," said Professor Miller. "But I couldn't see how you could lose $1.3 billion hedging."
Complicated as hedging strategies often are, they all boil down to the same thing. Hedging is a technique for offsetting the price risk inherent in any cash market position by taking an opposite position in the futures or options market.
From court records and press accounts, it became clear to Professor Miller and Mr. Culp that MG Refining's problems began with a unique marketing strategy. To break into the American market, in 1991, it began offering small retail customers -- gas stations and fuel oil dealers -- fixed-price contracts for 5 to 10 years for heating oil and gasoline. Oil prices had just dived in the wake of the Gulf War and lots of customers were keen to lock in cheap supplies. By mid-1993, MG Refining had entered into contracts to deliver some 160 million barrels over the next 10 years.
To protect itself against the possibility that oil prices would rise above the selling price minus some margin to cover costs and profits, MG Refining bought futures contracts. These were bets that oil prices would rise. If they did rise, MG Refining would reap large short-term profits to offset looming losses on its long-term delivery contracts. Because futures contracts typically are purchased to cover deliveries just three to six months down the line, MG Refining had to keep rolling them over to hedge its long-term commitment to deliver the 160 million barrels.
IF oil prices fell, MG Refining would lose money on its futures contracts, since it had agreed to pay a higher amount for the oil involved in those deals. But those would be paper losses as long as the futures contracts were rolled over. The losses would be offset, over time, by bigger profits on MG Refining's long-term supply contracts because in that case the company would be buying oil at a substantially lower price than its customers had agreed to pay for it.
"Our intellectual contribution was showing that contrary to public perception," said Mr. Culp, "you can hedge long-term commitments with short-term contracts, if you do it right."
In March, Professor Miller went public with his views in a keynote speech to the annual meeting of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association. Addressing an audience of active users and dealers in derivatives -- a term that applies to all financial instruments, including futures, whose values are linked to changes in the market price of a commodity or security -- Professor Miller mentioned that what MG Refining had been doing might not have been as bad as news reports suggested.
But it wasn't until they had pored over the documents and constructed their diagrams that Professor Miller and Mr. Culp figured out what, in their view, really had gone wrong: That Deutsche Bank panicked as MG Refining's paper losses mounted.
MG REFINING's hedging strategy had huge cash flow requirements once paper losses grew, since that forced the company to ante up bigger cash deposits, or margins, to back up its investment. The parent company's $1.5 billion standby line of credit was supposed to finance that effort.
But last December, as MG Refining's paper losses grew, Metallgesellschaft's supervisory board refused to let it use the credit line. After dismissing virtually the entire management of Metallgesellschaft and MG Refining, Mr. Schmitz and other supervisors ordered the futures contracts liquidated. That not only turned paper losses into real ones, the professors said, but it left MG Refining exposed to the risk that oil prices would rise, which they did, causing losses on the long-term delivery contracts, a classic double whammy.
"I originally thought it was a liquidity problem," Professor Miller said. "There's some of that. But in my current conception, it was a case of intellectual risk. The classic case occurs when your staff is bid away and you now have nobody at home that understands the strategy. In this case, the staff wasn't bid away, it was fired."
Professor Hanke, who taught Mr. Culp when the latter was an undergraduate at Johns Hopkins, got involved in May after he read a draft paper prepared by Professor Miller and Mr. Culp. He saw that its conclusions were important because the Metallgesellschaft debacle was being cited as an excuse for legislation he regarded as unwarranted. "There are now four pieces of legislation in the pipeline in the U.S. to regulate derivatives," Professor Hanke said.
Professor Hanke and Mr. Culp then wrote an essay for International Economy magazine stating the Miller-Culp thesis in nonacademic language. At around the same time, Professor Miller and Mr. Culp mailed out their draft paper to three dozen or so people in the industry and academia. A month or so later, in mid-September, Professor Hanke turned up the heat in a Forbes column in which he reckoned Metallgesellschaft would have come out nearly even if the hedge hadn't been sold off.
At that point, Metallgesellschaft's stock nosedived, falling more than 20 percent on Sept. 26 and 27, to 118 marks, and Mr. Schmitz talked to reporters to rebut the professors personally. "The quick unwinding of the futures positions was the correct professional move," he told reporters. (The stock, which traded at more than 400 marks a year ago, closed Friday at 172.)
Mr. Schmitz's basic point is that hedges were too expensive to keep in this case, and some traders think he is partly right and have criticized Messrs. Miller, Culp and Hanke for not taking all costs into account.
Still, there is little sympathy for Mr. Schmitz, who was already under heavy criticism for not spotting the problems at Metallgesellschaft sooner. And there is a certain amount of glee among Deutsche Bank's rivals that it has egg on its face.
The hedging strategy "might have been considered aggressive, but it wasn't outrageous or even unusual," said a senior executive at another European bank. In any case, "you would expect group management to be aware of it. The notion that they were bamboozled is absolute hogwash."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Options expert Steve Hanke, left (Marty Katz for The New York Times), and economist Merton Miller. (Cynthia Howe for The New York Times)
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: METALLGESELLSCHAFT AG; DEUTSCHE BANK AG DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); MG REFINING & MARKETING INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: METALLGESELLSCHAFT AG; DEUTSCHE BANK AG

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (53%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; FINANCES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES FUTURES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); ARRESTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPANY STRATEGY (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); MARKETING STRATEGY (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; MILLER, MERTON H; CULP, CHRISTOPHER L; HANKE, STEVE H (PROF) MERTON MILLER (94%); CHRISTOPHER CULP (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



377 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2446 words

HEADLINE: The Good Life After Goldman

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
IT is Wall Street's most elite club, and every two years its new members are selected, capping months of anxiety with elation for the chosen ones. They are the new partners at Goldman, Sachs & Company, the last major investment banking partnership in America.
Goldman added to its inner circle last week, when the firm named 58 new partners, a record crop. They are mostly in their 30's, and nearly all men, plucked from the ranks of the firm's more than 9,000 employees. The partners do assume risk because, as owners, they share in losses as well as profits -- and this year has been a tough one for Goldman and the rest of Wall Street, as rising interest rates brought spectacular trading losses. 
 Still, being a partner at Goldman is about as close to a sure thing as there is anywhere in the business world -- a ticket to wealth and prestige. A Goldman partnership, says Samuel Hayes 3d, a finance professor at the Harvard Business School, is "the epitome of professional recognition on Wall Street." And financially, he adds, it is "the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow."
Yet under the partnership pact, the partners have to wait for the pot of gold. The Goldman partners enter into a kind of Faustian bargain, exchanging years of exhausting toil and relative wage restraint for the lure of early retirement with multimillion-dollar payoffs. The new partners agree to work 12-hour days and more, some travelling constantly, always at the beck and call of the firm. An unwritten code of behavior applies as well. Teamwork and understatement are part of the Goldman ethos. Sharing credit for victories is appreciated. Flashes of ego are not.
Long hours and grueling travel schedules, of course, are routine in the upper echelons of investment banking. But the work regimen at Goldman is notoriously demanding and the partners are expected to pay that personal price.
Stephen Friedman, the firm's 56-year-old senior partner, who recently announced that he would step down at the end of November, explained, "I missed seeing my children grow up. I want to see my grandchildren grow up."
Typically, Goldman partners retire -- or "go limited," in the firm's parlance -- well before Mr. Friedman, most of them in their late 40's. And they certainly have the financial freedom to do so. Their financial arrangement with the firm is the ultimate forced savings program. Every year, each partner is allocated a share of Goldman's profits, but those profits must be reinvested in the firm until retirement. One result is that during their partnership years, they collect modest salaries, by Wall Street standards, of $200,000 annually, supplemented by interest payments on their capital.
But the arrangement also means that before they reach 50, each partner can count on a nest egg of at least $10 million. And Goldman now encourages youthful retirements both to make room for new partners and keep the partnership ranks lean -- and extremely lucrative for the partners. Even with all the new ones coming aboard, Goldman's total count of active partners will be only about 180. In the last two years, 29 partners stepped down. Average age: 47.
Given its wealth and early-retirement policy, Goldman is a launching pad for second careers and second chances. Former partners are in all kinds of fields including government, academia, the arts and, to the dismay of some at Goldman, back on Wall Street at rival firms.
Some went to high-profile, high-pressure jobs like Robert E. Rubin, a former senior partner, who is now one of President Clinton's trusted policy advisers as the head of the National Economic Council. Kenneth D. Brody, who ran Goldman's real estate division, is now president of the Export-Import Bank. On Wall Street, Leon Cooperman, Goldman's former head of research, runs a successful fund that invests aggressively for wealthy clients. Geoffrey Boisi, who ran mergers and acquisitions at Goldman during the takeover boom of the 1980's, quit to set up his own investment boutique.
But others took the money and the opportunity to stray far away from their careers in finance. Here are three who embarked on entirely different careers -- and lifestyles -- after Goldman:
 
Study, Charity -- and an Airplane
 Michael Coles never went to college. As a teen-ager, the Briton thought he wanted to be an engineer. But by the time he was 18 in 1950, Mr. Coles decided that engineering was not for him. With little idea what he did want, he joined the Royal Navy, learned to fly and ended up piloting single-engine fighter-bombers from an aircraft carrier during the Korean War.
After eight years in the service, he decided to apply to Harvard Business School, which he said was "kind enough to ignore my lack of formal education."
Mr. Coles joined Goldman, Sachs right after graduating from business school in 1961. After several years in the firm's corporate finance department, he was named a partner in 1968 and asked to head up Goldman's international business.
For the next 18 years, he opened offices for the firm in London, Zurich, Tokyo and Hong Kong. By the mid-1980's he became convinced that it was time to leave the business to younger people.
"If someone comes in on a Friday afternoon before a holiday weekend and announces that we are going to have to work through the weekend, the Young Turks say, 'O.K., let's do it,' " he said. "But the 50-year-old says, 'Hey, wait a minute guys, do we really have to do this?' "
MR. COLES became a limited partner at the end of 1986 at age 55. The limited partners are given an office at Goldman and a secretary, but they usually take most of their capital out of the firm in the few years after they step down. For his part, Mr. Coles decided that he wanted to go back to school. "I had always had an interest in history, and I wanted to write history," he said.
Admissions administrators at Columbia University were not so obliging. "It was kind of hilarious because they could not grasp the idea that someone who did not have an undergraduate degree could go to graduate school," Mr. Coles recalled.
When he told an administrator that he already had a master's degree from Harvard, Mr. Coles said the man replied, "Even Harvard makes a mistake sometime."
After taking some courses on a part-time basis, Mr. Coles convinced a few professors in the history department to help him gain admission as a full-time graduate student.
His years at Goldman gave him model study habits. "When you went into a meeting with a client, you made sure that you were prepared," he said. In his studies, Mr. Coles quickly found that it was possible to be too prepared. "My main frustration was having to keep quiet," he said.
He ultimately received a second master's degree, writing his thesis on China's intervention in the Korean War and is currently at work on a study of British-American naval relations in the Pacific during World War II that he hopes will be published as a book.
Like most of the Goldman limited partners, Mr. Coles is also involved in charity work. He is chairman of the Manhattan Theatre Club and is on the executive committee of the Foreign Policy Association. He and his wife are also active in the Nature Conservancy and the Inner City Scholarship Fund.
He also maintains his links to the firm, serving as a part-time investment banking adviser to Sumitomo Bank, which has $625 million invested in Goldman.
But he also makes time to fly his antique biplane and to go sailing. "I would never say that since going limited I've spent every day with my nose to the grindstone," he said.
 
Restoring an Inn
 Robert Mnuchin describes his decision to retire from the front lines at Goldman as a "wrenching" one. "I loved my career," he said. Last week, Mr. Mnuchin's son, Steve, who trades mortgage-backed bonds, was named a partner at the firm.
Mr. Mnuchin landed a job as a trainee in the firm's equity department in 1957 after a brief stint in the Army, and spent 33 years on the trading floor, rising to become one of the most influential people in the equities business.
Under the tutelage of Gus Levy, Goldman's legendary leader in the 60's and 70's, Mr. Mnuchin helped pioneer the now-common practice of "block trading," which allows pension funds and other institutional investors to buy and sell large numbers of shares in one company in a single transaction.
"I had no dissatisfaction," he recalled recently. "I simply decided, after a lot of soul searching, that I would like to create the opportunity to have other experiences in life."
Although he didn't have a plan when he decided to become a limited partner in 1990, a project soon came along. Mr. Mnuchin and his wife, Adriana, a successful businesswoman who created the retail clothing franchises Tennis Lady and Cashmere-Cashmere, decided to buy and restore an inn near their weekend home in Washington, Conn.
The Mayflower Inn, which first opened in 1920, had a long history of distinguished guests, including Eleanor Roosevelt. But it had fallen into disrepair and had closed a few years before the Mnuchins bought it.
THE couple had all but one of the five buildings demolished, and started over. They hired a local architect and took pains to recreate the feeling of the old inn with antique furnishings and formal landscaping, while adding modern amenities like a fitness spa.
Since reopening in 1992, the Mayflower has received favorable reviews, though with room rates ranging from $225 to $495 per night not including meals, you practically have to be a Goldman partner before you can afford to stay there.
Mr. Mnuchin has since turned his attention to his other great passion: modern art. During his years on Wall Street, he and his wife amassed an impressive collection of works by American abstract expressionists including Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning and Mark Rothko.
LAST year, Mr. Mnuchin converted the bottom two floors of the couples' five-story townhouse on East 78th Street in Manhattan into C&M Arts. The gallery specializes in selling the works of postwar American artists such as those represented in the Mnuchins' private collection.
One of the major differences between being a collector and running a gallery, Mr. Mnuchin said, is the difficulty finding exceptional works regularly. "When you set your goal to have a gallery that is going to specialize in artists who are historically very important, you want to present high quality from within their oeuvre," he said, sitting in a room at C&M Arts surrounded by works of de Kooning and Rothko that each sell for more than $1 million.
Nevertheless, Mr. Mnuchin has established a reputation for himself as a shrewd dealer and the gallery has been praised for the high quality of its exhibitions. "I would not want to sacrifice quality to make money but the gallery is a serious business and it is making money," he added.
Despite his devotion to Goldman and his years on Wall Street, Mr. Mnuchin said that he neither trades nor follows stocks now. "I loved watching the tape then," he said. "I'm deeply immersed in other things now."
But all is not rosy. The Mnuchins recently ran into trouble when it was discovered that their new $900,000 home in Connecticut is 6 feet higher than local zoning regulations allow. Their application for a variance was denied, and they are unsure what they will do next.
 
Becoming a Local Pol
 William Gruver understands the Mnuchins' plight. "That's exactly the type of thing that I get involved in," he said.
Mr. Gruver was recently elected mayor of Eagles Mere, Pa., a tiny lakeside resort community of 123 registered voters with a summer population of 500.
"Being a resort community, my biggest job is serving as an intermediary between the summer people and the people who live here all year long," he said.
FOR Mr. Gruver, being able to live full-time in Eagles Mere was the draw of giving up his partnership at Goldman. "As much as anything else, I surrendered to New York City," he said. "I loved my job to the day I left. If I could have lived a rural lifestyle and still been able to commit myself to the job at the level I needed to, I might have stayed."
Mr. Gruver joined Goldman in 1972 after 4 years in the Navy serving on submarines in the Pacific. He rose to head the firm's securities sales department, was named a partner in 1988 and went limited in 1992 at the age of 48.
"I had enough to get by," he said. "A few friends of mine had already died. There were things that I wanted to do."
Unlike Messrs. Mnuchin and Coles, Mr. Gruver planned his exit carefully. He knew that he wanted to live in Eagles Mere, where he and his wife had been spending weekends for many years, and he decided that he wanted to teach, so he wrote letters to all the deans at colleges within commuting distance.
The best prospect was Bucknell University, a small liberal-arts college with about 3,000 students in Lewisburg, 42 miles away.
He had never visited the campus, nor even known an alumnus. "I can get mystical about it," he said. "It was really love at first sight."
The Bucknell campus bore a strong resemblance to the campus of Dartmouth College in Hanover, N.H., where Mr. Gruver had been an undergraduate. And the dean who interviewed him turned out to have grown up near Mr. Gruver's home town of Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
But it was not, as they like to say on Wall Street, a slam-dunk. When Mr. Gruver described how he planned to leave Goldman, the dean became suspicious.
"They figured I was an escaped convict or something," Mr. Gruver recalled.
"They did some pretty good checks on me and then got interested real fast," he added. Nevertheless, Mr. Gruver was offered a job as a lecturer, the lowest rung on the faculty, for a single semester.
Although he had no experience as a teacher, he was confident. "I had no doubt that I could do this," he said. "I don't know why. It was totally unjustified. But other than my first marriage, I've been pretty good at what I've wanted to do."
After the semester ended, the college offered him a multi-year contract and raised him to full professor, the top rank.
He teaches three courses, including a seminar on investment banking. He has spent the past two summers hiking and climbing in the Alps and the past two Januaries doing the same in New Zealand.
Does he have any regrets about leaving Goldman? "Not this year," he said, referring to the firm's plummeting profits.
"I miss the collegiality," he continued. "Scholars are very solitary people. That's not good or bad. But the kind of collegiality that the nakedness of a trading floor forces on you. I miss that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Coles, a limited partner since 1986, devotes himself to history, charitable work, sailing and his airplane. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Robert E. Mnuchin, who has retired, in his art gallery on New York's Upper East Side. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times); William Gruver is Mayor of tiny Eagles Mere, Pa. (Craig Smith for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Graph: "How Partners Profit" shows total revenues, net income and new outlets in retirement for general partners at Goldman, Sacks. (Source: Investment Dealers Digest; Goldman, Sacks)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LIFE STYLES; RETIREMENT; FINANCES, PERSONAL BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); EARLY RETIREMENT (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); 

PERSON: COLES, MICHAEL; MNUCHIN, ROBERT E; ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE SAMUEL B HAYES III (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



378 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
The 'Hillary Factor' in Health Care

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble 

 BODY:
HAS the suddenly elusive Hillary Rodham Clinton slunk off, as some would suggest, to contemplate the sin of pride, to wit, imagining that through intelligence, reason and Ira Magaziner, she and her husband could tame a gaggle of competing interests and reform the American health care system?
A new survey of health benefits indicates the First Lady would be perfectly justified in proclaiming herself the unslinkable HRC. "Health Benefits in 1994," an annual report from the compensation and benefits consultants KMPG Peat Marwick, says a widespread fear in the insurance industry of the "Hillary factor," or "unwieldy and profit-eating health care reform legislation," has been a major brake on increases in the cost of employers' health care premiums. After several years of double-digit increases, the rise in premiums slowed to 4.8 percent from the spring of 1993 to the spring of 1994 from 8 percent the year before. The rate, said KPMG, is the lowest since 1986. 
 Talk of reform is the Washington equivalent of thigh boots and a riding crop. "The spotlight and scrutiny focused on health costs is paying off," said James E. Buckley, national partner in charge of health benefits consulting at KMPG in New York. "The Administration should take credit."
That's -- sort of -- the good news. The bad news is that increases in costs are still running ahead of inflation and workers' earnings during the period analyzed. And while Peat Marwick's experts expect relief from major increases for at least one more year, after that -- if Congress and the Clintons, or whoever succeeds them, cannot come to a meeting of the minds on reform -- costs are likely to escalate sharply again. Additionally, the price of controlling costs appears to be controlling choice. Almost half of the employers surveyed offer only one health plan.
KMPG has sponsored the survey of medium- and large-size companies, of more than 200 employees, since 1991. This year, KMPG's researchers found, nearly four-fifths of employees have some form of employer-sponsored health insurance, up 10 percentage points since 1992. Forty-four percent of those covered make no contribution to premiums. Slightly more than half of employers offer traditional fee-for-service coverage, the most expensive form of coverage for individuals, at $181 a month.
At $477 a month, point-of-service plans, a type of managed care that allows consumers to go outside the network if they are willing to pay extra, was the most expensive form of family care. The cost of point-of-service plans, supposedly a choice-maintaining compromise between traditional care and the health maintenance organizations that many Americans disdain, had the highest average rate of increase, in part, Mr. Buckley theorizes, because they were priced too optimistically. "The point-of-service plans probably need to be fine-tuned," he said.
The slowing of costs is almost entirely a function of pushing workers into managed care, whether they want it or not. The percentage of employees offered traditional fee-for-service plans dropped to 51 percent in 1994 from 65 percent a year earlier. Employees in H.M.O. plans typically pay more toward their premium than employees with conventional coverage.
ONE of the biggest banes of consumers of health benefits, the pre-existing condition limitation, is apparently poised to go the way of leeching. The Hillary factor played a role in its demise. Reform-related news stories often highlighted the hardship caused by pre-existing condition clauses. Insurers were not happy with the exposure. "The spotlight embarrassed them," Mr. Buckley said. And health policies in the states, where reform efforts are now concentrated, generally ban the clauses. The numbers indicate that insurers are bowing to the inevitable. This year the portion of companies offering health insurance imposing such clauses dropped to 56 percent from 70 percent in 1993.
Time will run out eventually, though, on what can be done by threatening reform rather than by actually instituting it. Squeezing savings out of the current system by better management and limited access will inevitably reach a point of diminishing returns. And technology is an inexorable inflator of costs.
"A few years ago, there was a $200 round of tests to do. Now there's a $1,000 round of tests," Mr. Buckley said. "Doctors don't say, 'Is it cost-effective?' They say, 'It's available, let's use it.' " He fears the political momentum for reform has been lost, though the need has not, and that in a couple of years the inherent tendency of technology to cost more will explode on the marketplace. That's a force of nature even more powerful than Hillary.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton campaigning for health care legislation last summer in Seattle. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "Mixed Message" shows health insurance premiums from spring 1993 to spring 1994. (Sources: KPMG Peat Marwick, Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KMPG PEAT MARWICK AMERICAN HEALTH CARE CENTERS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: KMPG PEAT MARWICK BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; RATES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INSURANCE (75%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



379 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST SIDE;
Museum Mile Still Growing

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Up and down Museum Mile, there's a big show of architectural works in progress on exhibit -- the major renovations and expansions of the museums themselves. Nearly every institution on the strip is involved, and the capital projects total hundreds of millions of dollars.
The projects are low profile compared to the grand but controversial additions in the 1980's and early 90's. That symbolically ended when opposition helped kill a Whitney annex. 
 The trend is 'laudable, but it's not the rule in the rest of the country -- we're seeing very few museum projects," said Edward Able, president of the American Association of Museums. They come despite the recession, which hurt attendance and donations, and other upheaval in museum economics. Government and corporate grants have dropped, tax laws have changed and other causes compete for money.
Several factors are at work. "A lot of the projects were started when money was flush," said Dianne H. Pilgrim, director of the Cooper-Hewitt. And collections are ever growing.
Preservationists bitterly fight some expansions. "Too often," said Joyce Matz, a veteran of such battles, museums "destroy their most precious object of art, their own building." Steven Rooney, a deputy director of the International Center of Photography, said, " Often museums are landlocked or landmarked or both. That's the price we pay for being on the Gold Coast."
Cries that the Metropolitan was gobbling up Central Park did not thwart completion of its 21-year campaign doubling its complex. And, overriding critics, the embattled Guggenheim nearly tripled in size with its new wing (some said it looked like a toilet tank next to the original round Frank Lloyd Wright building) and SoHo satellite in 1992. Signaling the Met's new approach, Philippe de Montebello, the director, said its plan will not push beyond existing walls and "now calls for a new era of building from within."
The only current dispute is the objection from the Friends of the Upper East Side Historic Districts to the planned connector from Cooper-Hewitt's original building to adjacent town houses. Mrs. Pilgrim, the director, said: "Some people don't want any change, which as an art historian I understand." BRUCE LAMBERT

GRAPHIC: Map of Manhattan highlighting sites of museums

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT INC (72%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION (72%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (56%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (56%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (55%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (56%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (56%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (55%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); TRENDS (79%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (74%); ART HISTORY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); TAX LAW (53%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



380 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 5; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHINATOWN;
After Tough Start, Bank Seeks New Image

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII 

 BODY:
When it was founded in 1981, the United Orient Bank became one of New York's first Chinese-American Banks. But almost immediately it was riddled with scandals. In 1984, its former vice chairman and director, Edward (Eddie) Tse Chiu Chan, was named by Federal authorities as a Chinese crime boss. Rumors of seizure of his assets set off a run on the bank, and panicky depositors withdrew $5 million in less than a week. And then in 1989, Ka Chiu Leung, a former president and chairman, was convicted of money laundering.
Years of neglect and mismanagement left the bank with problem real-estate loans and a string of quarterly losses. Now, in an effort to reverse the trend and create a new image, the new owners have hired a former high-ranking New York State banking official, Yungman Lee, as president and chief executive. 
 They hope Mr. Lee's image as a clean-cut, progressive community advocate and his work in the public sector will inspire confidence and attract customers.
A community advocate in Chinatown for 20 years, Mr. Lee is an ideal choice, said Joseph Chu, a real-estate investor who took control of the bank last spring. In the 1980's, Mr. Lee served as chairman of the Chinatown Health Clinic and fought City Hall when it built a jail in Chinatown. A lawyer, he has been First Deputy Superintendent of Banks in the state Banking Department for the last two years.
But banking experts say his good reputation alone will not save the bank. Warren Heller, director of research at Veribanc, says it needs an infusion of cash.
That may prove difficult. In addition to its troubled past, the bank faces stiff competition from the area's 41 branches of domestic and foreign giants like Citibank, Chase Manhattan and Bank of China. With $63 million in assets, United Orient is relatively small and does not offer as many types of services like cash machines as its competitors.
But Mr. Lee hopes the community will take advantage of the strengths of United Orient as a community bank: Customers seeking loans have a better chance of approval because character and reputation will be considered; on-site loan processing shortens the wait, rules are less stringent and service staff more personable.
Community participation and reinvestment are also high on Mr. Lee's agenda. As a first step, the bank has already agreed to sponsor a banquet honoring outstanding Chinese-Americans later this month.
So far, community economic development organizations are eager to cooperate.
"I would like to take that as an invitation," said Cris Garcia, director of Manhattan Neighborhood Renaissance Local Development Corp. "We don't want to dwell on inadequacies of the past." J.H.L.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yungman Lee (Chang Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 3988 (HKSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED ORIENT BANK (NYC) BANK OF CHINA LTD (53%); CHINATOWN HEALTH CLINIC (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED ORIENT BANK (NYC) CHINATOWN HEALTH CLINIC (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); TRENDS (74%); BANK FAILURES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (51%); 

PERSON: LII, JANE H; LEE, YUNGMAN CHIU M CHAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



381 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 2; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: F.Y.I.

BYLINE: By ANDREA KANNAPELL

 BODY:

India India?
 
Q. I've been noticing that manhole covers say "Made in India." So is that India as in India? How is it that we're going all the way to India for manhole covers?
 
A. Because they're cheap! 
 Ian Michaels, a spokesman for the Department of Environmental Protection, said that he had received calls from many New Yorkers wondering the same thing, and that the answer is simply economics.
"The Department of General Services puts out contracts for purchasing manhole covers to our specifications," he said, "and the company that had the lowest bid produces them in India. I'm not even sure there's a company in New York that makes them," he said.
He said the department has also purchased manhole covers, which run between $50 and $75 each, that were made in China. "We just look for the best value for the taxpayers," he said.
Mr. Michaels thought you might be interested in another bit of manhole-cover trivia: why they are round. "Square manhole covers could be lifted up, turned on their sides and dropped down the shaft," he said. "As long as they're round, you can't do that."
 
Owning Manhattan
 
Q. Some years ago I heard that the largest landowners in Manhattan were N.Y.U., Columbia, the Catholic Church and the Episcopal Church. Could you find out who the current largest holders of Manhattan are?
 
A. Such a simple question, and so difficult to answer! Since churches are tax exempt, they don't show up on property-tax records. So you take what you can get: in this case, the Real Estate Directory of Manhattan (T.R.W., 1993). It lists "fee principals" -- in real-estate-speak, that's owners.
It won't quite answer the question, because owners can hide behind intermediaries, and the listings do not purport to reflect the realities behind partnerships, trusts and dummy corporations. Catholic Church properties are generally listed individually. And the directory also simply lists addresses, rather than sizes, of properties, with hundreds per page in tiny type.
The City of New York dwarfs any other entity, with more than seven pages of listings. Columbia University and Allan H. Goldman -- the son of the real-estate baron Sol Goldman -- have a half-page each (that's about 250 addresses). Alex Di Lorenzo 3d, whose father assembled a real-estate empire in partnership with Sol Goldman, comes next, with more than a quarter of a page (about 175 addresses). Trinity Church (which is Episcopal), New York University and Harry Skydell, who owns many Harlem properties, each have about an eighth of a page (about 80 addresses).
 
Geographobia
 
Q. Why is the Brooklyn area of Gravesend called that? (Or do I not want to know?)
A. As with much of early New York history, no one is certain. But there are two theories, said John Manbeck, an urban historian; neither is particularly creepy.
Gravesend was one of the five original Dutch towns established in Brooklyn, Mr. Manbeck said. The most logical source for its name is a town in Holland called 's Gravenzande (it means the count's beach in Dutch, he said).
But of those five towns, he noted, Gravesend was the only one settled by the English, who may have taken the name from a town in England 20 miles east of London. The name of the English town means "place at the end of the grove," according to a dictionary of British place names, because the Old English word for "grove" is "graf.' ANDREA KANNAPELL

GRAPHIC: Map of Brooklyn highlighting Gravesend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); RELIGION (69%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



382 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Vaunted Signs of Economic Recovery Aren't Real to a Lot of Us

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Economic indicators" come out once a month. They give pertinent facts about the economy. The latest indicators show total United States output to be up, unemployment claims down, industrial production up and business sales up. At first glance, this is very salutary.
But the economic indicators are prepared by the President's Council of Economic Advisers, whose chairwoman, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, was appointed by President Clinton. Ms. Tyson appears frequently on national television and obviously strives to present Administration economic policies in the best possible light. 
 Regarding the recent drop in unemployment claims, it has been established (from previous administrations) that in hard times, many of the unemployed become discouraged, drop out of the labor force and stop going to state unemployment offices to make claims.
President Clinton has repeatedly said that under his Administration's economic policies more than six milion new jobs have been created. What he omits to say is that they are mostly minimum-wage jobs. But the layoffs, called "downsizing," which continue at I.B.M., General Motors and other corporations, are affecting mostly the highest salaried employees. This is to achieve the goal of cutting costs, and thereby increasing profits.
The recession has been going on for more than six years. But the Council of Economic Advisers steadfastly maintains that we are in the "recovery stage." Before this one, the longest post-World War II recession mercifully lasted for only 18 months.
 
BEVERLY KITCHING
Springfield, Ill., Oct. 10, 1994
 
The writer retired as professor of economics, City Colleges of Chicago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; PUBLIC OPINION ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



383 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Acorns Sprout Where Mighty Oaks Grew

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

 BODY:
HALF a century ago, the arrival of the latest issue of a scholarly journal devoted to the arts and humanities or the social sciences would send professors scurrying into their hideaways to devour a broadly illuminating article by John Maynard Keynes, John Dewey or perhaps William James.
Today, the excitement generated by many of these journals has waned, and many of their scholarly readers complain that the publications have been trivialized. 
 "There isn't the same attention paid to them now that there used to be," said John Kenneth Galbraith, the Harvard economist. "Someone like Keynes would bypass them today and write books instead, and I must say that my own reading of them has become highly selective."
Martin Anderson, a former domestic and economic policy adviser to Presidents Nixon and Reagan who is now a senior fellow at Stanford University, declared that not once in his 12 years of Government service did he hear any policy maker refer to an article in an academic journal.
Not all academicians disdain these journals -- there are now about 18,000 worldwide, with most published in the United States -- but many acknowledge a declining interest in them. (Scientific publications, unlike those in the arts, the humanities and the social sciences, are largely exempt from this criticism because the growth of scientific knowledge is expected to take place in bits and pieces.)
A scan of recent journals included:
*A 10-page article in Communication Quarterly citing 43 references to support the thesis that music video programs are contrived to boost the sale of pop music recordings.
*An 8-page article in Women's Studies Quarterly by a "math-anxious individual" describing "a feminist approach to introductory statistics."
*A 3-page article in Chicago Medicine about the rise of homicide rates entitled "Recognizing Homicide as a Health Risk."
Educators offer several explanations for the declining interest. For one, the fragmentation of knowledge in recent years has made many periodicals seem like stadiums leased for cozy academic tea parties. "You have five or six scholars writing for each other, and nobody else knows or cares what it's all about," said one long-time journal editor who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 
Paper Trail to Tenure
 Then, too, educators say, many journals succumb to the pressure of professors interested primarily in packing their resumes with publication credits required for better jobs, promotions, raises and, the ne plus ultra, tenure.
"College presidents do a lot of talking about the need for faculty to do more teaching and less publishing, but when it comes to tenure, if you haven't published, bang, you're out!" said Bill Katz, a professor in the library school at the State University of New York at Albany, who is editor of Magazines for Libraries.
"The emphasis on number of publications as a prerequisite for advancement is so great that many people use the salami method -- slicing every paper into six or seven separate papers prior to publication," said David Pendlebury, an analyst for the Institute for Scientific Information, which indexes and analyzes journals in the sciences and humanities.
Another reason for the waning interest in these periodicals, academicians say, is antipathy toward refereed journals, in which a committee of experts reviews submissions, deciding which merit publication. "In the referee system, no one person is responsible for the publication," Professor Katz said, "and also it means that everything moves so slowly that you could discover the meaning of life and it wouldn't appear in print for 20 years."
 
A Godsend for Beginners
 At the same time, Mr. Katz added the journals also perform important services. "They're a godsend for young scholars -- equivalent to the small presses for beginning novelists," he said, "and many of the new journals are quite imaginative." He cited Raritan, a literary quarterly edited by Richard Poirier and supported by Rutgers University, which in recent years has attracted contributors like Harold Bloom and Joyce Carol Oates.
Other colleges and universities, hard pressed financially and aware of the dwindling significance of their scholarly journals, are reducing the publications' budgets. A recent casualty is Romance Philology, a publication of the University of California Press, which covers the field of medieval romance languages. A recent cutback eliminated most of its paid editorial and production staff, and the journal survived only by raising its subscription price by 37 percent, which resulted in a 10 percent reduction in subscriptions.
One way of gauging the impact of an article is how many times it is cited elsewhere, which the Institute for Scientific Information tracks in a computerized summary. "The requests we receive to check citation frequency have doubled in the last year," said Mr. Pendlebury of the Institute for Scientific Information. "The people who pay the bills for these publications are under increasing financial stress, and they come to us for an independent opinion about what is useful and what is not useful."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Katz in his office at the State University of New York in Albany. (Michael Okoniewski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION CO (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; HIRING AND PROMOTION HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); LITERATURE (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); LIBRARIANS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); POP & ROCK (69%); LIBRARY SCIENCE (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (68%); CRIME RATES (68%); MUSIC (64%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (63%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H RICHARD NIXON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



384 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
From Your Mailbox to Your VCR: More Ads

BYLINE: By ANDY MEISLER 

 BODY:
LAST May, Oliver North had a problem. Running hard for the Republican nomination for a Senate seat from Virginia, he needed to get his message across to a select group of voters -- the 20,000 or so delegates to the party's nominating convention in Richmond.
Airing commercials on local TV would have been expensive and scattershot. Mailing campaign literature was no good either: it would get lost in the blizzard of mailed political brochures during primary season. 
 Instead Mr. North's campaign opted for a hybrid of both forms of advertising: direct-mail video. The party regulars each got in the mail an 11-minute videocassette with a mini-biography of the ex-Marine colonel and commentary tailored to their concerns.
Thus did the eventual nominee use a new marketing tool that seems to be coming into its own this year, in both American politics and commerce. Tom Edmonds, a political consultant based in Washington, says the appeal of direct-mail video is simple: "You can bypass the mass media and target only the people you want to reach."
He is the 50-year-old founder and president of Political Video Duplicators, a growing, six-year-old subsidiary of his Edmonds Associates Inc. These days, for about $2 a cassette, Mr. Edmonds can get his clients' fine-tuned pitches onto thousands of demographically desirable TV screens, without buying expensive commercial time on a station or cable system. And he doesn't have to worry about cramming their messages into a 30-second or minute-long time slot.
Breakthroughs in video duplication technology, he says, have made it possible to turn out as many as 50,000 lightweight (and thus cheap to mail) copies of a seven-minute video each day. That is how he was able to turn out 157,000 copies of an anti-Clinton health reform message recently and send them directly to people on an American Conservative Union mailing list. Mr. Edmonds's clients have included Bill Clinton, George Bush and the World Wildlife Fund.
But he might just as well be using direct-mail video to sell exercise machines or insurance policies, for it has dawned on a wide variety of advertisers that the medium makes economic sense. TV advertisers pay dearly to reach a huge, unfocused group of couch potatoes. For $400,000, they can buy a minute of commercial time on NBC's "Seinfeld" and reach those among the show's 30 million viewers who haven't left their chairs for the kitchen or bathroom. For the same money, they can reach perhaps 200,000 demographically desirable individuals.
 
Packing Emotion
 Mr. Edmonds says that with 80 percent of American homes equipped with video recorders, it is a good bet that most of his target audience will sit down and watch at least part of any cassette he sends them.
"Video has got sight and sound and motion," he says. "It's active instead of passive. It doesn't take as much energy to watch a video as to read your mail."
Joe Cupani, creative director of Ogilvy & Mather Direct, a large direct-mail agency, says, "If you have to demonstrate something, or get across an emotion, videos are perfect." His company produces 10-minute videos for Jaguar -- "an emotional purchase," he says -- that include scenes of Jaguars racing, gleaming in the sun and being driven by well-dressed men.
For A.T. & T., Mr. Cupani produced "You're Calling From Where?" showing young Americans having difficulty phoning from abroad. The answer is said to be an A.T. & T. calling card. The tape is mailed to college students heading overseas.
Emotions of another sort are stirred by the Teachers Insurance Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund, a $130 billion organization that sells insurance to workers at colleges, universities and research institutes. Unable to send "counsellors," as it calls them, to each of 5,000-plus institutions, it sends videos -- with titles like "Building Your Future" -- instead.
The fashion house of Emmanuel Ungaro, aware that not all of its clients can make it to Paris for spring and fall showings, sends out cassettes of runway shows, complete with superimposed order numbers, to a select group of 200. Last year, McDonald's mailed more than 300,000 videotape supplements to its annual report, featuring an "informal conversation" between its chairman and his top officers.
Nonprofit fund-raisers are also taking advantage of the direct emotional appeal of videos. The Southern Poverty Law Center sends its contributors "Seeking Justice," a 15-minute tape showing the organization at work and news footage of the Ku Klux Klan.
"Our purpose is to bond the donor to the law center," said David Watson, the center's fund-raising director. The tape isn't a direct pitch for money, but recipients are asked to recycle the videocassette by mailing it back. "Sometimes they come back with money inside," Mr. Watson said.
Such videotape sales pitches date to at least the early 1980's. A pioneer was Soloflex, the exercise machine manufacturer, which began mailing what it called "video brochures" in 1982 and now estimates it has sent out three million. (The 22-minute tape ushered in the extended, late-night "info-mercial" in 1986 after deregulation by the Federal Communications Commission.)
Mr. Edmonds says a big factor in the viability of videotape advertising was a production advance made two years ago: short programs can now be duplicated quickly on very long lengths of videotape, then cut up and inserted into cassettes. New lightweight cassette shells keep down mailing costs, and the Postal Service offers sorting services and bulk discounts.
So the trend could well accelerate. And if there is a down side for marketers, it is the same one experienced by any new medium when its novelty wears off.
A few years ago, a Beverly Hills men's clothier, Sami Dinar, began mailing fashion videotapes to clients.
"I stopped doing it," said Mr. Dinar. "It worked at first, but then all my clients started getting videotapes all the time. I'd ask them if they'd seen mine. They told me: 'You know, it's sitting on my VCR.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Videos may put the image you want. . .; . . .before your audience, as junk mail takes. . .; . . .new forms. Here, stills from Oliver North's video.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DD ASSOCIATES INC (67%); AG ASSOCIATES INC (67%); AB ASSOCIATES INC (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); ADVERTISING; DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (54%); 

PERSON: MEISLER, ANDY BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



385 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
The G.O.P. Looks Homeward on Trade

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE Republican Party is showing more and more signs of returning to its roots as the party that protects small and medium-sized manufacturers from foreign competition.
The party of Lincoln pursued higher tariffs and protectionism from the Civil War until the Great Depression, allying itself with Northern manufacturers against Southern farmers who wanted cheap access to European goods. Having swung during World War II to the side of international businesses eager to sell in foreign markets, the Republican Party now seems to be swinging back to its more insular ways. 
 Republicans led by Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the minority whip, blocked the House this month from voting on a global free-trade pact until after the November election, complaining that the Administration had done favors for politically powerful companies in a bill tied to the pact. Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, abstained from voting for the pact when the Senate Finance Committee sent the deal to the Senate floor. And a growing number of Republicans are running for Congress with campaign platforms that avoid any mention of free trade.
To be sure, a majority of Republicans still appears likely to support the global pact when it eventually comes to a vote. Democrats remain more deeply divided than Republicans over trade policy, although willing now to confront old allies in organized labor. And it was a Democrat, Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina, who forced a two-month delay in the Senate vote on the trade pact.
Yet President Clinton's outspoken advocacy of free trade positions has highlighted shifts in the Republican Party, particularly in the party's right wing, which was more strongly internationalist and supportive of free trade under President Reagan.
Some House Republicans perceive a generational split in their ranks. Older members, steeped in the internationalist traditions of the 1940's and 1950's, are more willing to support free trade pacts than younger members, whose views on foreign trade are more likely to have formed during the oil crises of the 1970's. "You do see an increasing number of people who are coming in and marking themselves with a protectionist bent," said Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican of Arizona.
Some evidence for this theory can be found in last year's House vote on the North American Free Trade Agreement. Only 22 percent of House Republicans over the age of 40 voted against the pact, but 42 percent of those aged 40 and under did so.
Critics of this theory say younger members of Congress tend to be less confident of re-election and more reluctant to vote for legislation that might prove unpopular.
Yet the party's "Contract With America," a common platform for Republican Congressional candidates this year, conspicuously omits any mention of free trade.
Robert Teeter, a Republican pollster who was the chairman of President George Bush's unsuccessful re-election campaign in 1992, said that the growing political importance of trade made the traditional economic schools of thought less important.
 
Perot's Influence
 Some Democrats accuse Republicans of pandering to supporters of Ross Perot and Pat Buchanan, both of whom ran for the Presidency in 1992 calling for protectionist measures. When Mr. Gingrich told the House Democratic leadership that he wanted to postpone the global trade pact vote, he mentioned that he had spoken that day to Mr. Perot, who in public speeches around the country had been calling for a delay.
For many, the politics of trade are local. Representative Howard Coble, a North Carolina Republican, explained his indecision on the global pact by quickly ticking off the positions of each industry in his district. Furniture executives favor the pact and the textile industry is deeply divided, Mr. Coble said, while tobacco concerns have yet to pay much attention.
But the rising influence of conservative radio talk show hosts, who have led opposition to the global trade pact, has made it harder for Republicans to pursue local interests. Partly because of them, said Representative Jim Leach, Republican of Iowa, "the dominant, cutting-edge Republicanism appears to be a little more protectionist."
The Republicans' biggest corporate backers favor more open trade, but the affinity there transcends trade policy. "Where else are they going to go?" said Mr. Buchanan. "Are they going to go to Clinton?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (84%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (84%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ELECTION ISSUES; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) POLITICAL PARTIES (95%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (57%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; GINGRICH, NEWT (REPR); DOLE, BOB (SEN); PEROT, ROSS; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



386 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Aristide Can Speak, But Can the U.S. Hear?

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti

 BODY:
IN Haiti's 200 years as an independent nation, no president deposed in a palace coup had ever been restored to office before the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide arrived here Saturday after three years in exile. As befits a man of the cloth whose long-suffering followers call him "ti pwofet," or the "little prophet," his return was celebrated with a fervor that was almost religious in its intensity and as an occasion that offered the promise of deliverance after a generation in the wilderness.
But Father Aristide owes his extraordinary political resurrection less to the moral force of his ideals and his supporters than to the presence of foreign troops, 19,000 at the moment. He must now prove that he can speak the pragmatic language of his American patrons -- and they in turn are going to have to adapt to his quintessentially Haitian style of discourse. 
 Neither task promises to be easy. Just this month, an American diplomat here pronounced himself perplexed by the "Alice in Wonderland quality" of Haitian politics, where words seem to mean only what their speakers want them to mean. Nor is he the first to feel confused. Citing the phrase coined by a former ambassador, diplomats here routinely counsel new arrivals that in Haiti it is best to believe "nothing you hear and only half of what you see."
In a society built on slavery and the deceptions it encourages, where three in four people are illiterate and both French and Creole are official tongues, it is hardly surprising that verbal facility is more valued than ability to offer a coherent political program.
Perhaps more than anyone in modern Haitian life, Father Aristide has shown both skills. "He has a remarkable command of language," a fellow priest, the Rev. Frantz-Michel Grandoit, said. "He has a striking ability to use the images, phrases, proverbs and parables of spoken Creole to draw parallels between the life of the oppressed Jewish people at the time of Christ and the historic suffering of the Haitian people, oppressed by domestic and foreign forces."
But if Father Aristide portrays Haiti's poor blacks as a chosen people, then, by implication, the largely mulatto elite is left to play the role of the Pharisees. Or so the privileged assume, and respond with unrelenting hostility. "Half the people see him as a messiah, and half as the devil incarnate," said an intellectual who leans toward the second opinion. The percentages may be off, given that Father Aristide won two of every three votes in the December 1990 election, but no Haitian doubts that this is, more than ever, a polarized society.
To hear his adversaries tell it, Father Aristide has consistently fomented divisions, a prime example being the speech he delivered at the United Nations this month. "We will prepare the coffee of reconciliation through the filter of justice," he said. That homespun phrase seemed innocuous enough to Americans, but in a country where the legal system is associated not with due process but with the ability of the powerful to abuse the weak, it was interpreted as a coded call for revenge.
"It doesn't necessarily mean there has to be punishment of those who are guilty," said Suzy Castor, director of a social policy research institute here. "But there must be an acknowledgment of sin. This is now part of our national patrimony, and we must recognize it before we can pardon it."
To the United States, on the other hand, reconciliation "means forgetting about what happened, accepting that there is a new situation that prevails, and pretty much asking Aristide to turn the other cheek," said Alex Dupuy, a Haitian sociologist who teaches at Wesleyan University. "They don't want a housecleaning or a pubic confession of crimes in Haiti."
 
Mandela's Example
 The American ambassador here, William L. Swing, was formerly the envoy to South Africa, and Haitians say embassy officials have argued that if Nelson Mandela made a new beginning with whites after a generation of apartheid, Father Aristide can do so with his opponents after three years of exile.
Both the United States and Father Aristide also say that they want to see democracy in Haiti. But the United States emphasizes the formal electoral process and institutions associated with it. Father Aristide, in contrast, wrote in his autobiography that "I do not believe that liberal and parliamentary democracy is in itself the indispensable corollary, the sole result and unique end of the movement for human rights." He has in the past preferred a democracy he calls "participatory, uncomplicated and in permanent motion," but which his adversaries regard as a formula for demagoguery.
Many of his associates argue that exile has made Father Aristede less the zealous Old Testament prophet and more the modern statesman. "He has learned a lot in the United States," said the Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste. "He has been redeemed, become a more mature, more democratic man."
But if that is so, the little prophet may alienate his most ardent followers. Father Aristide rose as the head not of a political party but of a loosely organized movement called Lavalas, a Creole term he has defined as "a river with many sources, a flood that would sweep away all the dross, all the after-effects of a shameful past." Already there are complaints that an economic plan disclosed last week is a betrayal of ideals, more suited to the University of Chicago than to his slum stronghold of Cite Soleil.
But if it is possible to channel the energy of Lavalas, Father Aristide remains the one to do it. "He is, after all, a priest, and one of his jobs is to preach," said a Haitian intellectual. "He has raised the hopes of his flock higher and higher. Now we will see if he also knows how to pacify them and the Americans at the same time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide during a demonstration in the town of Croix des Bouquets, Haiti. (David Scull/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US POLITICS (90%); COUPS (90%); RELIGION (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



387 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: THE IRAQI FORCES;
Perry Reports Elite Iraq Army Is Set to Retreat

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: KUWAIT, Oct. 15

 BODY:
Defense Secretary William J. Perry said today that new intelligence reports indicated that elite Iraqi troops in southern Iraq were preparing to resume their retreat north and that the immediate danger of war seemed past.
Mr. Perry warned on Friday that the United States would take military action against Iraq if the elite Republican Guard forces did not move north of the 32d parallel. Up to a division of those forces were reported to be near Nasiriya, a southern town on the Euphrates from which American officials contend Iraq could threaten Kuwait. 
 But today Mr. Perry said intelligence reports indicated that the Iraqi troops near Nasiriya seemed to be awaiting transportation.
"They are in transit," he said at a news conference at the Kuwait airport before leaving for China on a three-day visit. "Therefore we do not expect an attack now."
After intense debate, the United Nations Security Council tonight adopted a resolution condemning Iraq for threatening Kuwait and warning Baghdad against such actions. [Page 12.]
Mr. Perry added that the intelligence reports were somewhat ambiguous and that he did not want to draw a final conclusion. "We're not pocketing a peaceful outcome yet, but I am optimistic," he said.
Despite the new intelligence reports, the Defense Secretary said the United States would proceed with its plans to deploy 30,000 ground troops and that the forces would remain there until the Iraqi troops had returned to the encampments from which they advanced south toward the Kuwait border last week. He said 10,000 to 12,000 American ground forces had arrived or were en route here, and that an additional 18,000 marines would be deployed soon.
Ending his visit to the Persian Gulf region, Mr. Perry met today with the Emir of Kuwait and visited marines on ships in the gulf and United States Army and Kuwaiti troops in Kuwait.
He also had an unscheduled encounter at Kuwait airport with the Russian Foreign Minister, Andrei V. Kozyrev, who has been lobbying for a Russian proposal under which Iraq would recognize Kuwait in return for the lifting of economic sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait four years ago. Mr. Kozyrev's proposal has been rebuffed by Washington and was not welcomed by the Kuwaitis.
Hearing that Mr. Perry had arrived at the airport, Mr. Kozyrev went over to see the American Defense Secretary, who was dressed in casual fatigues after visiting American troops in the Kuwaiti desert.
Mr. Perry said later that the two had been friends for years and that their conversation had been social, though Mr. Kozyrev mentioned that he had talked today with Secretary of State Warren Christopher by phone and was proceeding to New York for consultations on Iraq at the United Nations.
The Defense Secretary predicted that the Russians would not block American efforts in the United Nations to establish a buffer zone to protect Kuwait.
Senator John Warner of Virginia, a Republican member of the Senate Armed Services Committee who is traveling with Mr. Perry, reported that the Emir of Kuwait, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah, had offered during their meeting to underwrite much of the cost of the American military operation in the gulf.
Mr. Perry has estimated that the cost of the operation will range from $500 million to $1 billion. Mr. Warner said the Emir promised to "help to defray very substantially" the cost.
Seeking to send a strong message to other Arab countries in the gulf region, Mr. Warner said Congress would be reluctant to support American military operations in the gulf unless they picked up the cost.
"Our U.S. military is down to bare bones in terms of dollars" the Senator said. If the gulf countries fail to contribute the money, he added, the Congress and the American public will begin to ask, "How many times must we do this?"
During his visit to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, Mr. Perry has emphasized the importance of storing American military equipment in the region so that American forces could be quickly deployed here in a future crisis.
The United States would like to station a brigade's worth of Army equipment in Saudi Arabia, a similar amount of Army equipment in the United Arab Emirates and a similar amount of armored equipment in Kuwait.
There is currently less than a brigade's worth of armored equipment in Kuwait. At his news conference, Mr. Perry said the Kuwaitis had offered to double their storage sites for American military equipment. The Saudis, on the other hand, have resisted efforts to keep American equipment in their country.
The Bush Administration wanted to station three brigades' worth of American military equipment in Saudi Arabia after the gulf war ended in 1991, but the Saudis rejected the proposal.
Underlining the American position toward Iraq, Mr. Perry listed some American deployments in the region. The aircraft carrier George Washington has moved from the Red Sea into the Persian Gulf, which puts it much closer to Iraqi forces in southern Iraq.
Mr. Perry also visited the Leyte Gulf ship today, which he said was armed with more than 60 cruise missiles. All told, the Defense Secretary said the United States had more than 200 cruise missiles in the region.

GRAPHIC: Photo: United States intelligence reports showed the Iraqi troops that had threatened Kuwait were retreating, Defense Secretary William J. Perry said yesterday. Flight deck crews on the aircraft carrier George Washington prepared to launch a plane to patrol the no-fly zone in southern Iraq. (Associated Press) (pg. 12)
 
Map shows the location of Nasiriya, Iraq. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GULF STATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (79%); LOBBYING (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; PERRY, WILLIAM J (SEC); WARNER, JOHN W (SEN); SABAH, JABER AL-AHMED AL- (SHEIK) (EMIR) JOHN WARNER (58%); MARK WARNER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



388 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: THE OBSTACLES;
After the Homecoming, the Hard Part

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Oct. 15

 BODY:
The national treasury is empty. More than 3,000 people, many of whom were counted on to help run the country, are dead, the victims of state-sponsored violence that has left much rancor in its wake. Schools, roads, hospitals, electricity and other services have all collapsed, and at least half the work force is idle.
Against all odds, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide has been restored to his rightful place as the legitimate, popularly elected President of Haiti. But he returned today to a country so exhausted, bankrupted and riven by the ordeal it has endured these past three years that he now faces a challenge no less daunting: how to live up to the Haitian people's expectations that he will now bring about an immediate improvement in every aspect of their lives. 
 "Only Aristide can take us out of the dark ages," said Gilles Loussaint, a 27-year-old shop clerk who was part of the elated multitude that gathered this morning in front of the National Palace to await the return of President Aristide. "Now that our father is coming home, I know that he will take care of us. No more fear, no more beatings, no more hunger, no more ignorance."
Father Aristide has actively encouraged those aspirations, promising in the many radio addresses he has made to the Haitian people in recent months to create thousands of jobs and invest heavily in social services like schools and hospitals once he returned. But the grim reality, one American official here said, is that three years of corrupt and inept military rule and months of sweeping economic sanctions have left the Haitian Government "without a nickel to its name."
The United States and other donors have promised to help get things moving again, pledging more than $1 billion in aid over the next five years, including $272 million in the next four months. But "the pauperization of society" is so complete, said Kesner Pharel, an economist for the Haitian Central Bank, and the economy so damaged that Haiti's ability to absorb that assistance is likely to be limited.
Another economist said, "It would be like trying to pour a gallon of water into a thimble."
Nevertheless, the pressure on Father Aristide to create jobs will be unrelenting, no matter that Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, with a per capita income of only $250 a year.
"We want work," said Jean Bernand, one of Haiti's legion of unemployed. "Work will give us freedom."
Father Aristide's supporters also argue that he has to move quickly to dismantle the the military apparatus responsible both for his overthrow and the three years of slaughter and repression that followed. He must work not only against the entrenched remnants of that power structure but also the clock: he has only 16 months remaining in his term, and, under Haitian law, cannot be re-elected.
The American troops that began landing here on Sept. 19 have stripped the Haitian Army and police of the firepower they traditionally used to mount coups. But the American forces seem to have stayed away from many parts of the countryside, where 70 percent of the population lives, and to have missed some of the most dangerous private arsenals, controlled by the paramiliatry militia members, known as attaches, that continue to be a source of alarm to ordinary Haitians.
"If we want to be a free, democratic society, disarmament must be complete, and it must take place now," said Suzy Castor, director of a leading social policy research institute here. "If not, the attaches will regroup and return to their old methods" as soon as the American troops leave.
The Clinton Administration has said it wants to begin removing the American troops, who have won enormous popularity and respect among the populace here over the last month, and replacing them with a United Nations force as soon as possible. But some Haitians openly question whether soldiers and policemen imported from places like Bangladesh and Bolivia will enjoy the same stature and authority as troops from the United States.
At a news conference here this afternoon, Secretary of State Warren Christopher urged Haitians and Americans alike to "recognize that there will be difficult days ahead." He said, "There still are risks, there may be setbacks" and indicated that American forces were likely to remain in Haiti only "a few months" until parliamentary elections, probably in early 1995.
Even after the American troops leave, Father Aristide, who in his earlier, more radical days derided the United States as "the cold country to our north," will have to contend with the large number of American diplomats, economists and other experts who have come here to help him build democracy. Some of his sympathizers say they fear the American presence will limit the President's ability to plot his own course.
"His hands are tied," one Latin American diplomat here said. "He has nowhere else to go, so he is going to have to cooperate with them if he wants to get the aid package he needs."
The potential for conflict between the two sides was demonstrated in a small way this week when Father Aristide's chief of staff arranged for an aide to take a reporter to visit the house in which the President plans to live. Despite that official authorization, American soldiers ordered the pair out of the house, and forced them to leave over the protests of the frustrated Haitian official.
But there are also indications of disagreement over much more significant issues, like how to go about reforming the Haitian military. Though both sides agree that the police must be separated from the army, Father Aristide's advisers have consistently given much smaller estimates of the best size for the two reconstituted forces than have their American advisers.
"What we do not know yet is whether the relationship between the United States and Aristide will be one of cooperation or imposition," said Ms. Castor, who is the author of a book on the first American occupation of Haiti.
Though there will be demands on Father Aristide to do everything at once, he must run the country with "an extremely weak apparatus of government," said Ian Martin, a Haiti expert at the Carnegie Endowment for Peace in Washington. The state bureaucracy has not only decayed and been looted since 1991, but it is also to a large extent populated by functionaries unsympathetic to the President and his program.
"Everybody says he has to take on the army and modernize it," said Anthony Maingot, a Caribbean scholar at Florida International University in Miami. "But what about the telephone company, the state flour and cement companies, and the Central Bank? If he wants to rip these personalized companies out of the hands of those who control them, I say good luck."
Furthermore, during the eight months he spent in office before the military ousted him on Sept. 30, 1991, Father Aristide did not particularly distinguish himself as an administrator.
"He acted as if he were still the head of an opposition movement and not a head of government," another Latin American diplomat here said. "That has got to change this time if he is to succeed."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); POLITICS (71%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



389 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE ISSUES;
In the Trenches of the Campaign, Cuomo and Pataki Develop a Blind Spot for Transit

SERIES: Governing New York: A periodic report on issues facing the next administrtion

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
Neither Gov. Mario M. Cuomo nor State Senator George E. Pataki is making any promises to voters about what the price of a subway token will be after the election. And both candidates for governor are keeping quiet on an issue of even broader impact in New York: a new form of car emissions inspection supposed to begin next year.
It seems that transportation issues, even though they have an acute impact on millions of people, are not the territory in this election, where the candidates are seeking to make points against each other. 
 "It's not on the radar screen," said Charles Komanoff, a spokesman for Transportation Alternatives, a mass-transit advocacy group.
The candidates did respond to written questions about several transportation issues. And their answers reveal differences on two important issues: tolls on the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway and the propriety of Mr. Cuomo's intervention in a Long Island Rail Road labor dispute last summer, overruling the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
Mr. Cuomo has established a plan for keeping the Thruway tolls in place beyond 1996, when the bonds are paid off, and using the revenue for economic development projects around the state. Mr. Pataki says keeping the tolls in place "would be a disaster for New York State," because it would mean forgoing some Federal aid for roads.
Peter Stangl is the chairman of the M.T.A., but his term has expired and he is serving until a new nominee -- possibly Mr. Stangl himself -- is named. Last summer Mr. Stangl tried to drive a tough bargain on work rules in negotiations with the Long Island Rail Road, and after brief work stoppages and the threat of a long strike, the Governor told him to give up and settle.
"On balance, Mr. Stangl has been a competent and able manager," Mr. Pataki said. "It is unfortunate that Mario Cuomo pulled the rug out from under Mr. Stangl at great cost to the taxpayers in order to win votes in an election year."
Mr. Cuomo said that giving in on work rule changes meant nothing, since the contract under negotiation in July covered 1992, 1993 and 1994, and management can seek work rule changes in the new negotiations, beginning in January for the period beginning Jan. 1.
In fact, however, neither the unions nor the M.T.A. expects the contract for 1995, 1996 and 1997 to be finished before 1997, so the old work rules will stay in force.
Some other big transportation questions are also coming up soon, among them what to do with subway and bus fares in New York City. The current fare, $1.25, was established in January 1992, and Governor Cuomo announced last May that because of an improving economy, which had brought the M.T.A. more riders and more tax revenue, an increase could be put off six months, until July 1995. That pushed back all discussion of the subject.
A longer-term question is what to do with the new fare-card system, which the M.T.A. is spending $700 million to install at all subway stations and on buses. The new system provides the ability to sell monthly passes, or to allow discounts on subway and bus transfers, or on bulk fare purchases. But all these would require more money.
Mr. Cuomo said that his support for the Fare Deal, a package of capital spending and operating aid that has held the fare steady for nearly three years, had allowed the M.T.A. "to move forward with Metro Card and their planned innovative fare policies."
Mr. Pataki was more vague. His response to a question about what fares to expect, and what to do with the fare card, said in its entirety: "We must encourage the use of new technologies to modernize and update our transit system. We need to make the system more efficient and more reliable so that it is better for the commuters who depend on the system on a daily basis."
The two candidates both expressed wariness about a new form of emissions testing, called enhanced inspection and maintenance, that is supposed to get under way next year, with drivers taking their cars to centralized testing shops.
The state announced 11 months ago that it had chosen a contractor, Envirotest Systems Corporation of Tucson, Ariz., but no contract has been signed yet.
"This contract is extremely complex and will take several more months to conclude," said the Governor in his response.
Mr. Pataki said that "there are serious questions about the contract sitting on the Governor's desk that need to be addressed." The equipment might be unreliable, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); STRIKES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (72%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (72%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (71%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); EMISSIONS (57%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN) THOMAS E DEWEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



390 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
Economy, Crime and Immigration Dominate First Debate in Governor's Race

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 15

 BODY:
Gov. Pete Wilson and State Treasurer Kathleen Brown finally met face to face in a televised political debate on Friday night, with sharp, occasionally emotional exchanges over crime, illegal immigration and California's struggling economy.
But neither emerged a clear winner from the largely low-key hourlong confrontation, held in Sacramento and broadcast on statewide public television. As a result, Ms. Brown still faces an uphill struggle to overcome Mr. Wilson's lead of more than 10 points in what many political analysts say is one of the most important governor's races in the country this year. 
 The Governor, a 61-year-old Republican who was behind more than 20 points when he started his re-election bid but has since made a remarkable recovery, doggedly repeated the theme that has been the mainstay of his campaign: his "courage" to be relentlessly tough on crime and illegal immigration.
"Kathleen," he said at one point, breaking out of his normally soft monotone, "you lack the courage."
Ms. Brown, a 49-year-old Democrat, focused on the theme of her campaign, the struggling economy and what she described as Mr. Wilson's failure to halt its slide. She argued that she had a detailed plan for governing California, while Mr. Wilson had only "a plan for re-election."
Pollsters say that while Mr. Wilson is an unusually unpopular governor, Ms. Brown's own standing has eroded because she has never fully convinced voters that she has a solid vision for running the state. Thus her concentration through most of the evening on her "plan" -- except when the Governor questioned her "courage."
Then she switched tack and lashed back in the emotional high point of the night.
Her smile was replaced by a hard glare, and she asserted that she understood the need to be tough on crime because her own children had been crime victims, one in a date rape, one in a robbery.
"You know, Pete," she said, "you've misrepresented my positions on crime throughout this campaign. But I have to tell you that what I resent most of all is you questioning -- questioning -- my commitment to be tough on crime.
"You cannot imagine what it's like to be a mother waiting for your daughter to come home in the evening and having her come home and comfort her because she's been raped. Or your son call while I'm working to say, 'Come home because I've been robbed.' "
She added, "So don't question my commitment."
Mr. Wilson, a political moderate on most issues, replied that he nevertheless had to question Ms. Brown's commitment because she opposed the state's death penalty while he favored it.
In fact, he argued, there is a long history in the Brown family of opposing the death penalty and being too liberal on crime. Ms. Brown's father, Edmund G. Brown Sr., and her brother, Edmund Jr., both served as governor, and both opposed the death penalty.
Polls show that Californians rank crime and the huge influx of illegal immigrants across the state's southern border among their top concerns, along with the state's flagging economy. As the economy has begun to strengthen a bit in the latter part of the campaign season, Mr. Wilson has benefited in particular from his emphasis on the crime and immigration issues while Ms. Brown has lost some ground on the economic issue.
To Ms. Brown's further despair, pollsters have also found that many voters believe that a male governor can handle crime and immigration problems more effectively than a female governor.
In trying to keep the economic issue alive, Ms. Brown returned again and again to her "plan," saying she would balance the state's budget and get the economy moving by cutting $5 billion in waste and using the savings to strengthen education, transportation and other essential state services.
"It won't work," Mr. Wilson countered. "It's not a plan; it's a pamphlet."
He argued that he had already cut billions in waste from the state's budget and that even more would be cut if voters passed a proposition he supports to deny most social services to illegal immigrants. Ms. Brown, he contended, is as "soft" on the immigration issue as on the crime issue.
Midway through the debate, which the Governor had tried to avoid once he became the front-runner in the race, a question was posed that went directly to the national import of the Wilson-Brown race. Would Mr. Wilson serve out a second term should he win?
"Yes," he replied to the question.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEBATING; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ILLEGAL ALIENS ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS IMMIGRATION (92%); GOVERNORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); POLITICS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); TRENDS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; WILSON, PETE (GOV); BROWN, KATHLEEN (TREASURER) MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



391 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Is Connecticut Trying to Woo Philip Morris?

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Oct. 15

 BODY:
After luring the Swiss Bank Corporation from New York City, Stamford has approached Philip Morris, the tobacco company, about moving from Manhattan.
A Philip Morris spokesman refused to comment about the company's plans. The company has recently been actively lobbying against a bill in the New York City Council to curtail smoking in private places, and has said it may leave the city if the measure that is passed is too stringent. 
 Christopher Bergstrom, Stamford's economic development director, said he has received no response from the company and is not sure whether it is serious about leaving Manhattan.
Mr. Bergstrom's statement Friday came the same day Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. signed into law a package of $165 million in incentives to bring Swiss Bank's North American headquarters to Stamford. The move prompted New York City officials to claim the state "poached" Swiss Bank at an exorbitant price, and led Mayor Giuliani to suspend a 1991 tristate agreement not to take companies from Connecticut.
New York City officials criticized Mr. Bergstrom's statement.
"For those that don't recognize the value of region-wide cooperation, the Mayor feels with respect to New York City's interests, the best defense is a good offense," said Forrest Taylor, deputy press secretary to Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. "If someone's going to try and take companies, they can pretty much expect the same."
Mr. Bergstrom's statement also irritated a Connecticut official.
"I have no idea what Kip Bergstrom is talking about, and if I did I would not be so foolish as to ever discuss a recruitment effort publicly," said Joseph Cohen, a spokesman for the Connecticut Department of Economic Development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (91%); PMI (SWX) (91%); PM (PAR) (91%); PM (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC ALTRIA GROUP INC (91%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); CITIES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); SMOKING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



392 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: IN BAGHDAD;
Iraqi Officials Say Military Won't Attack

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 15

 BODY:
Iraqi officials said today that Iraq has no intention of attacking Kuwait and that neither the Iraqi Army nor the economy could sustain such a military operation.
"Even if you think Iraq is extreme, we are not crazy," said a senior Government official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "With what were we expected to attack Kuwait? We don't have much air power and we are not going to send ground troops out there without air cover." 
 Even as Iraqi television tonight broadcast news bulletins saying that the Government had pulled its troops far away from the Kuwait border, officials have kept tensions high by counseling the population to "stand fast" against an anticipated American assault.
While playing down the likelihood of an American attack, some European and Asian diplomats today questioned the United States assumption that Iraq moved troops toward Kuwait with the intention of invading that country again.
The purpose of the move, they said, was to bring to the fore the issue of the economic sanctions, which Iraq has worked hard to remove in the last year and is certain to pursue vigorously now in the belief that France, Russia, Turkey and other countries are now leaning toward resuming business activities with Iraq.
"Was it a bluff? Was it an attempt to bring the United Nations sanctions against Iraq to the surface -- nobody knows for sure," said a senior European diplomat. "What is absolutely true is that Saddam Hussein felt cornered and felt very forgotten in that corner."
Asked why Iraq appeared last week to be moving at least two divisions toward the Kuwaiti border, the official said Iraq's objective was -- and remains -- the removal of the sanctions imposed by the United Nations four years ago after Iraq invaded Kuwait.
The Iraqi official said Iraq had tried to use "diplomatic and other means of signaling our determination to have something done about the sanctions."
The official said he believed that the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council were no longer united in the determination to continue to punish Iraq. "France and Russia are not seeing eye-to-eye with the United States anymore for strategic reasons," he said.
He said that the United States and Britain having reaped many of the business opportunities created by the Persian Gulf war and the need to rebuild much of Kuwait, and that other powers are feeling left out.
"Outside the Security Council membership there are blocs of countries including the Asian bloc, Turkey, East European nations and others who feel that sooner or later Iraq will represent for them a great economic opportunity," he said.
These assertions were confirmed by diplomats of some of these countries here who reiterated charges by the French Defense Minister, Francois Leotard, that the United States is pursuing its own economic, domestic and international agenda in the gulf to the exclusion of other Western allies.
"We don't believe that the sanctions will be lifted by a Security Council dominated by the United States," the Iraqi official said. "But we do think -- and we are working towards -- dismantling them through attrition. At any rate, anyone thinking that the sanctions in themselves are enough to bring down Saddam Hussein will have to wait for a long time."
European diplomats here said they were telling their governments that the sanctions have taken a great toll on the Iraqi people but are unlikely to unseat the Government.
But it is obvious that Iraq today is a shadow of what it was four years ago. In 1990, emerging from its eight-year war with Iran, the country was the strongest Arab military and economic power, with daily oil production that came close to three million barrels, bringing in tens of millions of dollars a day and paying for a thriving industrial and agricultural base.
Today, Iraq appears run down and forlorn.
Unable to earn income from oil exports because of the sanctions and suffering inflation that has made Iraqi money nearly worthless, once-vibrant Baghdad now seems gloomy.
People are surly and the shops are empty. Prices in a largely free market for goods and food are out of reach for an increasing number of middle class people. The salaries of some Government workers are equivalent to the price of a chicken.
More thefts and burglaries are reported than ever before. Although law and order are breaking down, there is little evidence the Government is close to falling.
At night, the approaches to the city are well guarded by armed security officials who control cars and passengers at checkpoints, and political dissent is tantamount to suicide.
It is evident that through propaganda, the Government has succeeded in persuading many people that the United States is waging a war to starve them with the aim of breaking up the country into Kurdish, and Shiite and Sunni Muslim segments.
"We really have nothing to lose except the sanctions," said Abdelrazak Al Hashemi, a senior official of the ruling Baath party, "because the United States has persuaded most people here that no matter how much we try to comply with the United Nations resolution, it will continue to pursue this campaign to starve Iraq into chaos."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi officials maintain that Iraq has no intention of attacking Kuwait and that neither its army or its economy could sustain military action. Mothers and children wait for care at Saddam Hospital in Baghdad yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (94%); FRANCE (93%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; FRANCE; RUSSIA; TURKEY; UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (94%); FRANCE (93%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); DESERT STORM (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



393 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Syria Is Now Trying to Woo Iraelis, Not to Bury Them

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, Oct. 14

 BODY:
At an Arab-Israeli peace conference in Madrid three years ago, Syria's Foreign Minister, Farouk al-Sharaa, shocked his fellow diplomats by holding up a picture of Yitzhak Shamir, Israel's Prime Minister at the time, and calling him a murderer.
But Mr. Sharaa's tune has changed considerably since then. Last week, in the first interview by a Syrian official with Israeli television, he said the people of Syria, like the people of Israel, wanted to reach a peace accord as soon as possible. That interview was the latest step in a new strategy: trying to woo Israelis, rather than vilifying them. 
The Clinton Administration has told President Hafez al-Assad that such a tack is vital if Israelis are ever to accept a peace treaty with Syria. As mediator in the Israel-Syria talks, Secretary of State Warren Christopher has repeatedly given Mr. Assad a simple message: You have to orchestrate a series of reassuring words and deeds to build trust with Israel, a nation that Syria long vowed to destroy.
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel has quietly conveyed the same message, saying public gestures from Syria are needed to persuade Israel's public to back his proposal to withdraw from the Golan Heights in exchange for full peace with Syria. Opinion polls show that most Israelis oppose giving up the Golan Heights because they still see Syria as a security threat despite more than a decade of peace with Damascus. And recent terrorist incidents by Islamic fundamentalist group Hamas are expected to make Israelis even more reluctant to make territorial concessions that lessen their sense of security.
Over the last two months, Mr. Assad has begun trying to provide a measure of assurance of his intentions, in smartly painted billboards, addresses to Parliament and meetings with foreign leaders. In repeatedly stressing the importance of peace, he is seeking not only to win over skeptical Israelis but also to prepare his own people for possible peace with a longtime enemy.
A senior official who traveled to the Middle East this week with Mr. Christopher, said that "what we're seeing is the most significant shift in Assad's public posture toward the peace process since the Madrid conference," which set up peace talks between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Nonetheless, American and Israeli diplomats grumble that Damascus should be making more public gestures and that those it makes should not appear so half-hearted.
Too often, they say, Syria's reassuring moves include damning words about duplicity or inflexibility from Israel. In his television appearance, for instance, Foreign Minister Sharaa, asserted that "Israelis were very influential in the international media."
A Western diplomat said, "They've come a long way, but they still have a long way to go."
In Damascus nowadays, it is unmistakable that Syria's wall of belligerence toward Israel has begun to crumble. Several large billboards have sprouted up showing a beaming Mr. Assad with pro-peace slogans in the background. One sign says, "We believe and work for peace," while another shows Mr. Assad, who is usually hailed as a heroic warrior, in a field of flowers with a dove over his shoulder. That sign says, "Assad, the hero of peace, is waging peace the way he waged war."
In an address to Syria's Parliament that received heavy press coverage in Israel, Mr. Assad talked last month about the need for peace, saying, "We want a just peace because we want stability for the region."
To persuade his people, but with an eye to reassuring Israelis, Mr. Assad has erected signs saying peace will benefit Syrians economically. In another sharp departure from the past, Syrian television has provided unbiased coverage of Jordan's declaration of peace with Israel as well as the rapprochement between Israel and Morocco and Tunisia.
There have been many other gestures. For the first time ever, Mr. Sharaa met with leaders of American Jewish organizations when he was in Washington 10 days ago. Syria's official press has stopped calling Israel the Zionist entity and started calling it by its official name. Last month, Syrian officials began letting Israeli journalists attend news conferences they hold overseas, after decades of barring them.
"We are finally seeing some public diplomacy, but much more needs to be done to convince Israelis that Syria has made the decision for reconciliation with Israel," said Itamar Rabinovich, Israel's Ambassador to the United States.
For its part, Damascus is evidently in no hurry to bend over backward or abandon long-held positions to court Israeli public opinion.
While Israelis hailed Mr. Sharaa's decision to communicate directly with them in a television interview, many Israelis came away not at all reassured, convinced that he was frozen in old anti-Israeli thinking. Many viewers grew angry when he said that Syria had never shelled civilians in northern Israel and that the founding of Israel was at the heart of Middle East tensions.
American diplomats tell Mr. Assad that public diplomacy can speed a peace accord and even strengthen his hand in the behind-the-scenes negotiations. The quicker he builds trust with Israelis, the easier it could be to persuade Mr. Rabin to accept full withdrawal from the Golan Heights. The peace talks are inching forward as Syria insists on total withdrawal in one year, while Israel wants at least three years and has not committed itself to complete withdrawal.
Despite the burst of public diplomacy, Israelis remain frustrated that Mr. Assad has refused to spell out his views on the components of peace. Eager to know exactly what they would get in return for relinquishing the Golan Heights, Israelis want Syria's leaders to explain publicly whether peace would include open borders, no trade boycott and an exchange of embassies.
Mr. Assad appears reluctant to show his hole card, his definition of full peace, until Mr. Rabin shows his: a commitment to full withdrawal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (71%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); SYRIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%); 

COMPANY: HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT) ACCORD AS (71%); HAMAS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT) HAMAS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; SYRIA; ISRAEL; ; GOLAN HEIGHTS; ISRAEL (98%); SYRIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM ; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PEACE PROCESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); HAMAS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TERRORISM (69%); RELIGION (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (51%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES); CHRISTOPHER, WARREN (SEC); RABIN, YITZHAK (PRIME MIN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



394 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Nations Sign Pact to Stop Desert Growth

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 15

 BODY:
A plan drawn up two years ago at the Earth Summit to prevent agricultural land from turning into desert has been translated into an international agreement signed this week by some 100 countries here.
The Convention on Desertification focuses on the world's arid and semi-arid lands, which are steadily yielding less because of overgrazing, excessive planting, poor irrigation and deforestation linked to population pressures. 
 The erosion and exhaustion of the soil is considered most serious in Africa, where close to 75 percent of the arid land is already considered degraded. Overall, arid and semi-arid lands make up a quarter of the earth's land mass and sustain some 900 million people.
The convention, which will become legally binding for the signers in two years, establishes a "Global Mechanism" to coordinate projects to protect and rehabilitate lands and to find money for that purpose. It urges governments to channel such money through the Global Environmental Facility, a fund that was created to finance projects dealing with worldwide environmental concerns like changes in the climate and the loss of species.
Desertification was an important topic at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, with African nations pressing for a commitment on the issue from rich countries in exchange for votes on issues more important to the industrialized world. With the convention, poor nations hope to revive interest in the issue and attract money for development aid.
At the signing ceremonies here on Friday, rich nations pledged little new money but committed funds for further exploratory studies. The United Nations estimates that $10 billion to $22 billion will be needed annually over the next 20 years to finance the rehabilitation of land and stem the decline in fertility.
Supporters of the convention generally agree that action is urgently needed to prevent mass migration from exhausted lands, which would create a need for emergency aid.
The United States is expected to pledge $500 million initially, and other Western donors are expected to contribute as well. The donors refused to set up a new global trust fund requested by poor countries, saying that existing development funds could be applied more effectively. The Global Mechanism will be used to locate and channel such financing.
Word that only modest new funds would be forthcoming angered many representatives from the developing world. Some said the rich were only interested in financing imminent problems of war and peace.
"We have to realize that environmental degradation is as much of a threat to the planet and civil society as war," said Shri Kamal Nath, the Environment Minister of India. "And we have to combat it with as much vigor."
One part of the convention commits governments to a "bottom-up" approach involving local communities and non-governmental organizations in designing and carrying out projects. Donors have said that this would insure use of traditional knowledge and local practice and improve the chances for honest use of the money.
Some delegates from African governments objected privately to the close involvement of grass-roots groups. Members of non-governmental organizations at the conference here said that in a number of African countries, authoritarian governments see the groups as a threat to their power.
The agreement also calls for the transfer of technology and the exchange of information to monitor the extent of land degradation.
Scientists disagree, for example, on the precise causes of the expansion of deserts at the hand of man. Some say there is evidence that deserts have expanded and contracted over the millenia as climates changed. Even today, some argue, it is a lack of rain, not human activity, that is the main influence on crops and ecosystems in the dry lands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (93%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (93%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; AFRICA (93%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EARTH (93%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (55%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; LAND USE POLICIES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION LAND DEGRADATION (90%); DESERTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); LAND RECLAMATION (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEFORESTATION (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: SIMONS, MARLISE

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



395 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: New Flare-Up in Region's Border Wars Kills an Oft-Ignored Truce

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
Border War II?
It sure sounded like it last week when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani threatened to pull out his big guns in retaliation against Connecticut for luring the Swiss Bank Corporation from New York City to Stamford with a package of tax incentives. The angry words -- Hartford's "shameless raid" versus accusations that New York City officialdom was whining like a "pimply faced freshman" -- recalled the battles over corporations and jobs that have bedeviled the metropolitan area for years. 
 But there is much less to this latest case than meets the eye. In fact, the breakdown of the 1991 truce that forbade New York, Connecticut and New Jersey from luring away each others' businesses is unlikely to have much of an impact one way or the other on companies in the metropolitan area, experts say.
"This is a great way of getting attention, but it's just a distraction from the larger economic challenges facing the region as a whole," said Nicholas S. Perna, chief economist at the Shawmut National Corporation, a bank holding company with headquarters in both Hartford and Boston.
The primary reason to expect little change is that there never was much of a truce to violate in the first place. In recent years, the pact did not prevent Trenton from providing generous assistance to several big Wall Street firms that relocated back-office operations to cheaper sites in Jersey City and elsewhere.
Just last year, Connecticut granted major incentives to Dun & Bradstreet and the Witco Corporation to move their headquarters to Fairfield County. And Mastercard turned its back earlier this year on a New York City offer worth millions of dollars to stay in the city and instead decided to move its headquarters to a much less expensive location in Westchester County.
Meanwhile, state and city officials were forced to put together costly incentive packages of their own to keep big companies like Morgan Stanley in New York and to persuade the two major commodity exchanges in the city to build a joint trading operation in downtown Manhattan rather than Jersey City.
Yet all of these gifts, analysts say, probably had little effect on corporate decisions that were driven more by personal preferences, technological changes and shifts in local real estate markets than by promises of aid from local and state governments.
Moreover, while lots of companies may continue to migrate out of Manhattan even as many other enterprises take root in the city, the Swiss Bank relocation was prompted by unusual circumstances that are unlikely to be duplicated again soon.
For New York, a shotgun approach is the least likely to succeed. It makes little sense for City Hall to target the surrounding region in its efforts to reinforce New York City's strengths as a center for financial transactions and business services. Nor will it do much to improve New York's position as one of the few prime crossroads -- along with London, Tokyo and Los Angeles -- for global enterprise.
"Face it, Connecticut is not the most fertile ground to be hunting," said Mitchell Moss, director of the Urban Research Center at New York University. "We're much better off these days going to Hong Kong and Korea."
Mr. Moss added: "New York City's borders extend far beyond the tristate region. But Connecticut can only think of attracting firms from Manhattan."
What prompted the latest escalation was the decision last month by Swiss Bank to move 1,300 of its 1,500 employees from Manhattan to a 20-story office tower it will build on the last remaining major parcel of land in downtown Stamford, where it plans to hire an additional 700 workers. Connecticut provided the bank with a $120 million package of tax breaks to put the deal together -- worth $60,000 a job in savings to the owners of the bank based in Basel, Switzerland.
That was far more than New York City was prepared to offer to keep Swiss Bank's North American headquarters. The size of the offer pushed New York officials over the edge.
"If you start a border war, you don't really give us much choice but to fight back," John S. Dyson, New York City's Deputy Mayor for finance and economic development, said on Friday, adding that he planned to begin talks of his own with corporations in Connecticut on incentives to relocate to New York. "New Yorkers are not widely considered to be patty-cakes."
No one is expecting any significant business moves from the suburbs back to the big city, though. Two years ago, New York State officials opened a similar campaign against New Jersey. That came after Trenton, with its share of Port Authority rental income from the World Trade Center, put together a $224 million fund in part to lure companies across the Hudson River. Nothing much happened.
"This is mostly political grandstanding," said Gabrielle Belson Rattner, vice president at the Regional Plan Association, an influential nonprofit organization that promotes regional cooperation for economic development and environmental improvement. "Everybody recognizes by now that these border wars are pointless."
Though not particularly consoling, the brutal recession in the region and the collapse of the real estate market in the early 1990's, which, by opening up many office spaces in existing buildings and bringing Manhattan prices more in line with the rest of the metropolitan area, did more to slow the exodus out of the city than anything else.
State officials now concede that they never expected the earlier retaliation against New Jersey to accomplish anything more than warn Trenton to be more prudent. Still, they say, it would be nice now if Connecticut got a little taste of its own medicine.
"There's a difference between legitimate inducements and this kind of ridiculous financial package where it gets really crazy," said Vincent Tese, New York's Commissioner of Economic Development. "Our focus has always been on retention, not solicting firms from our neighbors. But we agree with John Dyson that Connecticut deserves to be taught a little lesson."
For their part, Connecticut officials insist they didn't go to Swiss Bank; they say the bank's foreign owners, after deciding to leave New York City, came to them. And the price tag for the tax breaks, while costly, is not coming out of the pockets of Connecticut taxpayers, they say, but out of extra tax revenues Hartford stands to receive only because of the bank's move into the state.
"Swiss Bank is a great company," said Joseph M. Cohen, a spokesman for Connecticut's Department of Economic Development. "But I doubt if most New Yorkers would have even noticed the loss if Mayor Giuliani and John Dyson hadn't turned it into a cause celebre."
Whatever the merits of the arguments, the Swiss Bank deal is unlikely to be duplicated.
"This is like locking the proverbial barn door after the horse has left," said Christoper P. Bruhl, president of the Business Council of Southwestern Connecticut. "Nobody is going to stop companies from moving when they want to, but the reality is that this relocation came together because of a unique combination of factors. It's not starting a new trend."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SWISS BANK CORP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); WITCO CORP (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWISS BANK CORP NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; NEW JERSEY; STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); TRENDS (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); RELOCATIONS (71%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (64%); COMMODITIES TRADING (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (57%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (50%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



396 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Idea of Chlorine Against Zebra Mussel Vexes Trout Fishermen

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

 BODY:
A proposal to use chlorine to kill zebra mussels if they enter New York City's reservoir system has Catskills trout fishermen upset.
Although none of the mussels, which invaded the United States from Eastern Europe six years ago, have appeared in the reservoirs, anxious city officials have been preparing for a major battle if they arrive. As part of the defenses, the city has applied to the state for permission to use chlorine to poison the black-and-white-striped mussels if they foul the tunnels and intake valves in the reservoir system. 
 The freshwater mussels, which can survive in brackish water, have caused millions of dollars in damage in other parts of the country when they have had to removed from reservoir systems. They have appeared as far south and west as Louisiana and Oklahoma and as far north as Minnesota and into Canada. In 1990, Washington allotted $37 million to eradicate the mussels.
But trout fishermen worry that chlorine might upset the delicate biological balance in the Esopus Creek, one of the finest trout streams in the country. The Esopus snakes for 12 miles through the mountains between two city reservoirs, the Schoharie and the Ashokan. Rainbow trout, some as long as two feet, abound in the stream.
City officials say the anglers' worries are groundless. They maintain that they will not use chlorine unless the mussels show up and that they will dechlorinate the water before it enters the stream.
"We do not believe we are going to have an impact on that stream," said Sharon Neuman, deputy chief of drinking water quality at the Department of Environmental Protection. "We're only planning to add something to the water if zebra mussels appear there. They may never come. We understand the value of that trout stream."
The fishermen remain skeptical. They say that even minute amounts of chlorine could kill tiny creatures the trout feed upon when they come upstream in the spring and fall to spawn. Trout fishing not only provides recreation, they said, but is also one of the area's biggest tourist businesses.
"You talk to people up here and they are angry," said Jerry Bartlett, a fishing guide and the vice president of the New York Council of Trout Unlimited. "If they kill one fish up here, New York City's drinking water is in trouble."
Trout Unlimited, the Sierra Club and other groups protested the chlorination plans at public hearings earlier this year. State officials are still considering the city's request.
Mr. Bartlett said that if chlorine were to leak into the river accidentally, it would kill all life in the stream. "Economic survival up here is no picnic," he said. "Everything is based on tourism. The river is the real center of it."
The Esopus Creek is one of the few streams in New York with enough life to sustain the wild rainbow trout during spawning season, Mr. Bartlett said.
Ms. Neuman said it is unlikely that the mussels will appear in the Schoharie Reservoir because the reservoir has little calcium, a nutrient mussels need. If they do appear, the plan is to add chlorine around the exit gates of the reservoir to keep mussels from fouling the 18-mile-long Shandaken Tunnel that leads to the Esopus Creek. Then a second chemical would be added at the end of the tunnel to neutralize the chlorine.
The city is also examining alternatives to chlorine, like manually cleaning out the mussels with blasts of pressurized water or using an alternate chemical treatment, potassium permanganate.
The zebra mussels, small freshwater mollusks with striped shells, arrived in the Great Lakes in the ballast water of trans-Atlantic ships. They were first discovered in 1988 in Lake St. Clair, east of Detroit.
With each female producing up to one million eggs, the mussels have rapidly spread, causing economic havoc from the Great Lakes to Louisiana. They have attached themselves by the millions to boats and piers and have clogged intake pipes at power stations, water plants and industrial plants.
In 1990, the mussels were found in the Hudson River. Four years ago, city officials began steam cleaning all boats on the city's reservoirs to make sure that none of the mussels hitched a ride from other bodies of water. Officials have also started a campaign to educate boaters about the dangers of a mussel infestation.
So far, Ms. Neuman, said the city had paid a consultant $4.8 million to devise strategies for combating the mollusks. The city has also committed itself to spending $16 million on water-monitoring equipment and chemicals to avert the feared disaster if the mussels got into reservoirs.
To protect creeks like the Esopus and fish in the reservoirs, Ms. Neuman said the plan calls for introducing chlorine into the water in bursts, once every 9 to 14 days. The biocidal chemical would be dripped into the water in barely detectable amounts at first, then slowly raised to 0.25 parts per million and eventually to 0.5 parts per million if the mussels persisted.
The water from the Schoharie Reservoir would be treated with sodium bisulfate to neutralize the chlorine at a point in the Shandaken Tunnel just before it enters the stream, she said.
"It's a real problem, and we live in a real world," Ms. Neuman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ESOPUS CREEK (NY); NEW YORK CITY; CATSKILL MOUNTAINS; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; CHLORINE; ZEBRA MUSSEL; MUSSELS; TROUT; WATER MOUNTAINS (90%); FISHES (90%); SPORT FISHING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (86%); CITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); TOURISM (63%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



397 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Four Players Fire the First Salvo of the Free-Agent Wars

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Baseball's free-agent wars began yesterday.
Jim Abbott of the Yankees, Jack McDowell of the Chicago White Sox, Erik Hanson of Cincinnati and Kenny Rogers of Texas put themselves on the front line of the newest skirmish between owners and players by filing for free agency on the first day of the 15-day filing period. 
 Nine other players, including Mark Grace of the Chicago Cubs and Kevin Brown of Texas, put their names on the list, and they most likely will become another phase of the dispute over free agency.
When the Players Association filed the Abbott group along with the other players yesterday, the 65th day of the players' strike, management's Player Relations Committee instantly rejected the four names, saying the players were ineligible because they didn't have the required six years of major league service.
The P.R.C. accepted the other players, though clubs may be told in the next two weeks not to sign them until a new system is in place. The Players Association will challenge both stances, and the triple-damage provision of the expired collective bargaining agreement could play a role in the dispute.
Gene Orza, the association's associate general counsel, said he wanted to speak with the P.R.C. tomorrow before taking any steps to challenge the clubs' position on the Abbott group. But he is pretty certain he knows the answer he'll receive.
"I assume they'll say because of the strike, you don't get service credit," Orza said.
Indeed, Chuck O'Connor, the P.R.C. general counsel, said just that. "My own belief is they have no right to service credit after a strike is called," he said.
The Abbott four and 10 other players needed all or part of the 52 days of the season that the strike wiped out to have the six years of major league service needed to be eligible for free agency.
Abbott, for example, entered the 1994 season with an even five years of service and needed 172 days of the season to reach six years. Although a season is 183 days long, for service credit purposes, one year is 172 days. The strike ended the season when it was 131 days old.
"The basic agreement says you have to be on the active roster to get service credit," Orza said. "Roster moves were made during the strike. I assume there was a reason. They obviously can't have it both ways. They can't have the benefit of maintaining an active roster and also say they didn't have an active roster."
Orza referred to roster moves clubs made after the strike began when they recalled players from the minor leagues so they wouldn't have to pay their salaries. The union challenged those moves with default notices and grievances.
Lou Melendez, a P.R.C. lawyer, said Orza can argue that players should be credited with service time during the strike, but "to what extent any arbitrator is going to give it a lot of credence, I don't know. I think we're on better ground than the Players Association on this one."
Melendez cited strikes in 1981 and 1985 as precedents. "In both instances," he said, "the Players Association sat down in a back-to-work agreement and negotiated the service back for the players who were on strike. Not withstanding the language in the basic agreement as it exists, which could be subject to any interpretation, a person on strike shouldn't derive any economic benefit, and service credit is just that."
Other players affected by the dispute are Randy Velarde of the Yankees, Ken and Bob Patterson of California, Tom Gordon of Kansas City, Gregg Olson of Atlanta, Marvin Freeman and Greg Harris of Colorado, Chris Gwynn of Los Angeles, Mark Parent of Pittsburgh and Alvaro Espinoza of Cleveland.
The approximately 170 players who are eligible have until Oct. 29 to file for free agency. Clubs other than their own are not free to begin signing them until Oct. 30. However, the Player Relations Committee has talked of imposing a freeze on player signings and may impose it before Oct. 30.
If clubs do not begin negotiating with and signing free agents, the union most likely will file a grievance, contending that the clubs are acting in concert against free agents and thus violating the free agent rules.
After the clubs were found guilty of collusion in three different years and agreed to pay $280 million in damages, they agreed in the 1990 collective bargaining agreement to be subject to triple damages if they colluded again.
"I have no expectation about what they'll do," Orza said, when asked about the freeze phase of free agency. "Whatever they do, we'll respond to it."
When the union files a grievance over the Abbott group, it also could seek triple damages. Orza gave no indication if the union would file a grievance immediately for those players.
Others players who filed yesterday were Jeff Blauser of Atlanta, Darren Jackson of the White Sox, Jesse Orosco of Milwaukee, Tim Wallach of Los Angeles, Bill Swift of San Francisco, Rick Sutcliffe of St. Louis and Candy Maldonado of Cleveland.

GRAPHIC: Photo: New York Yankees pitcher Jim Abbott was one of four players who started the free-agent wars by filing for free agency yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN; NEW YORK YANKEES; CHICAGO WHITE SOX; CINCINNATI REDS ; TEXAS RANGERS CINCINNATI REDS (72%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (91%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (91%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); TEXAS RANGERS (59%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); CHICAGO CUBS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN; NEW YORK YANKEES; CHICAGO WHITE SOX; CINCINNATI REDS ; TEXAS RANGERS NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (91%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (91%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); TEXAS RANGERS (59%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); CHICAGO CUBS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FREE AGENTS (SPORTS) BASEBALL (92%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); STRIKES (75%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (73%); LAWYERS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; ABBOTT, JIM; MCDOWELL JACK; HANSON, ERIK; ROGERS, KENNY JIM ABBOTT (93%); KENNETH RAY 'KENNY' ROGERS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



398 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: Whose Gain From Whose Pain?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
What would Paul Krugman say to the eight million American workers now unemployed? For them and their families, "short-term pain" may mar the rest of their lives and the lives of their children. Economists seem well-prepared to record, identify, analyze and interpret statistical data but unable to translate into human terms the possible options for solving the problems that confront us. 
 To be told that the ultimate effect of economic disparities in our social and political health is "unlikely to be pleasant," amounts to the suggestion that victims can never again be participants. Are there really no solutions to these problems?
 
EDWARD MEYER
Fairfield, Conn., Sept. 26
 
The writer is an independent market researcher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EMPLOYMENT (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); WRITERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); STATISTICAL METHOD (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); 

PERSON: MEYER, EDWARD; KRUGMAN, PAUL R (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



399 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Germany Will Survive Its Confusion

 BODY:
Judged a likely loser last year, then viewed as a certain winner only six months ago, Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany heads into his most confusing and least predictable election today. His problem is not with his Christian Democratic Party, which is leading in the polls. His problem rather is the possible collapse of his indispensable junior coalition partner, the Free Democrats, whose votes have assured Mr. Kohl's parliamentary majority since he first became Chancellor in 1982.
Fortunately there are enough brakes in Germany's federal Constitution so that a lurch toward real instability seems highly unlikely. Americans can watch with interest, not alarm, as 60 million Germans choose a government in a newly unified country now pulling out of economic doldrums. 
 Under Germany's complicated electoral system, the balance could be tipped if the Free Democrats fail to meet the 5 percent threshold required for parliamentary seats. But what makes the vote a real sweepstakes is that each voter, who first casts a vote for the party of his choice, casts a second ballot to elect an individual local representative. If a minor party does well in these local contests, it gets a windfall bonus that, depending on its share of the national vote, could greatly increase its representation.
Thus, in a peculiar twist, the free-market and libertarian Free Democrats could lose out, while the authoritarian East German Communists, now calling themselves the Party of Democratic Socialism, could bounce back. Discontent is highest in eastern Germany, where jobless rates are painfully high, giving the party a solid local base among the aggrieved. East Germany may be gone, but its old ruling party is emphatically not forgotten.
This resurgence is a major headache for the opposition Social Democratic Party and its low-key new leader, Rudolf Scharping. With the Free Democrats out, the party might just be able to cobble together a parliamentary majority in partnership with the leftish environmental Greens. But he has been rattled by Chancellor Kohl's charge that the Social Democrats might also depend on the support of former Communists, whose ideology is anathema to many veteran Social Democrats in western Germany.
If no coalition with a minority party is possible, the remaining way out for the two big parties is to form a "grand coalition," dividing the Cabinet seats between them. It would not be a happy outcome. Germany's last grand coalition, in the late 1960's, saw a surge in support for extreme right-wing parties, which filled the void left by a true opposition party.
However, should Germany again experiment with a partnership between Mr. Kohl and Mr. Scharping, Europe will not totter nor the mark collapse. Germany's far-right party, the Republicans, seems unlikely to get any parliamentary seats. It is the perplexities of democracy, not its survival, that are at issue in today's vote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

COMPANY: PARTY OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISM (54%); PARTY OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISM (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARTY OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISM (54%); PARTY OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISM (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); SWEEPSTAKES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); 

PERSON: KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR) HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (92%); HELMUT KOHL (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



400 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: President Aristide Returns

 BODY:
For the overwhelming majority of Haitians, the return of Jean-Bertrand Aristide is a joyous occasion. For a small but important minority, particularly among the economic and military elite, it is a nightmare come true.
For President Clinton, it is a foreign policy victory but by no means an undiluted one. It took three years, many policy reversals and finally a dubious use of U.S. military force to get to this point. The road ahead could be even more militarily treacherous and politically complicated than the recent past. 
 These cautions take nothing away from President Aristide. He won Haiti's first and only democratic election overwhelmingly. Though he then needlessly antagonized political allies and spoke in ways that seemed to countenance mob violence, his seven-month tenure was marked by fewer human rights violations and fewer boat people than any comparable period in modern Haitian history. After the military ousted him in a September 1991 coup, Father Aristide's supporters never deserted him; they suffered for him and kept dreaming of his return. Now he calls for reconciliation, justice and an end to bloodshed.
But the very novelty of Haitian democracy means there are no institutions to carry out orderly change and to reassure members of the old elite that their rights and even their lives will not be sacrificed. No court system worthy of the name exists. The only forces of order Haiti ever knew were partisan defenders of the old regime. Now that these have been broken by American power, only unreliable recruits of dubious loyalties are available to replace them. The Clinton Administration must steel itself against any temptation to move into this vacuum. U.S. troops must try to limit their involvement in police activities while an interim U.N. peacekeeping force is recruited and trained.
That will be harder than ever now that Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras and his cronies have finally gone and President Aristide has physically returned. Even if Father Aristide heeds U.S. pleas to put aside his radical electoral mandate, his supporters have high expectations and may be tempted to take matters into their own hands.
So may his enemies. If property owners recruit armed men to defend their estates from vigilante seizure, should U.S. troops try to disarm these private defenders? If so, should the Americans protect these threatened estates themselves, using deadly force if necessary? Anything Washington does or does not do under such circumstances would have serious repercussions both in Haiti and at home. The best thing the Clinton Administration can do is to keep the U.S. military mission limited and brief.
The U.S. has a human interest in helping Haitians out of their pain and misery. So long as the new Government lives up to its promises of democracy, reconciliation and human rights, Washington should be generous with aid and technical support. But with an elected Government now in charge and no real national security interests at stake, the U.S. military occupation of Haiti, never a good idea to begin with, must be wound up as soon as possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (98%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN POWER CONNECTION (54%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (98%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); COUPS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); RIOTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); POLICE FORCES (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994

 
