

1 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: What Is 'Seinfeld' Worth?

BYLINE: By JARED BERNSTEIN and DEAN BAKER. 
Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, was the economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. from 2009 to 2011. Dean Baker is a director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- THE tinkering of federal government accountants is rarely newsmaking stuff. But after a few tweaks to the way the Bureau of Economic Analysis calculates the gross domestic product, those accountants have pulled off something seemingly remarkable: in the blink of an eye this week, they made the size of the American economy grow by $560 billion.
Not only is this a big change -- that output, 3.6 percent of the total, lifting the economy to $16.6 trillion this year, is like adding a New Jersey to the nation's economy -- but it raises important questions about what we consider economic value and costs, and what we leave out. 
The changes involved are pretty simple. Beforehand, if a factory bought a drill press, the government would count that as an investment that would generate income over time, depreciating along the way until its value added fell to zero.
But consider the movie companies or TV studios that produce lasting hits like ''Star Wars'' or ''Seinfeld.'' They, too, spin off years of revenues. In that sense, their production is much like a capital investment, though there's been no place in the national accounts to score that investment.
Now there is a new category in the quarterly G.D.P. reports called ''intellectual property products,'' including ''entertainment originals.'' For example, the production costs of what the B.E.A., a part of the Commerce Department, calls ''long-lived TV shows'' -- ones that provide a steady stream of income, like ''Seinfeld'' reruns -- will for the first time be counted as investment. That's right -- the ultimate show about nothing will now add billions to G.D.P.
Research and development spending that was previously treated as an expense to business, the same as paper clips and electricity, will also now be treated as an investment with the potential to generate future income.
The logic here is solid. Spend a few hours on Netflix and you're happily consuming the results of considerable R & D in streaming technology, along with investments in the shows themselves. It seems clear that the intellectual property called ''The Sopranos'' is as valuable to its owners as the laptop and software enabling you to binge-watch it.
Still, if that sounds squishy, that's because it kind of is. Also, most people may not react well to being told that, according to the B.E.A., we're all about $1,800 richer on a per-capita basis -- but only on paper. Your paycheck's still your paycheck. Have a nice day.
But there are other, more significant problems with this new calculation. One is how to draw the lines around what is an ''intellectual property product'' and what isn't.
Take online videos. We spend billions of hours watching videos free of charge on YouTube. Some people -- not the ones with cats -- spend considerable time and money putting these together. But since they are available at no cost, this will not add to G.D.P. In that sense, what's really being valued here is entertainment that's protected by copyright, which in the era of viral videos is actually a declining share of what we watch.
Another arbitrary ring must be drawn around what is lasting in terms of added value and what is fleeting. Journalism is out, for example: barring the unlikely event that generations to come deem this essay an essential read, it will not be considered an investment in the G.D.P. accounts. Nor will blogs, despite the fact that since your time is worth something to you, they add value to those who take the time to read them.
But perhaps the most arbitrary part of this or any other G.D.P. revision is not the value of what's put in, but the cost of what's left out.
The failure to account for environmental degradation is a serious shortcoming of our measurement system. If we use hydraulic fracturing to reach deep pools of natural gas and in the process pollute groundwater, we will count only the value of the gas. There is no subtraction for the polluted groundwater or the greenhouse gas emitted when the gas is burned.
Finally, while this revision is a big deal for those of us in the field, does it matter to more normal people? For one, while it lifts the level of G.D.P. going back many years, it doesn't have much impact on the growth rate. Over the past year, for example, the economy grew an anemic 1.4 percent, meaning we're still in the same slog we were in before.
True, since the change raises the level of G.D.P. but doesn't affect the debt, it will lower the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio, which in tandem with falling deficits should give policy makers the political oxygen to implement a jobs measure. But given the state of Washington these days, don't hold your breath.
Too many Americans have felt disconnected from economic growth for a long time, something President Obama has stressed in recent speeches. Over this recovery, real G.D.P. is up 9 percent, while the typical household's income is down 4 percent. So we'll forgive you for not jumping for joy over the revisions.
Still, as new sources of economic value emerge, it's important to try to account for them, even if the accounting risks becoming more arbitrary as the measurement issues become more challenging. But it's equally important to try to measure the value we're destroying -- to ''net out'' the environmental damage.
So here's the deal, and let's stick with the movies: we'll count ''Star Wars,'' if they'll count the findings of ''An Inconvenient Truth.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OTHER MEANS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (52%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



2 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: 'Mini-Me' With High Heels of Her Own

BYLINE: By TATIANA BONCOMPAGNI

 BODY:
The last time Erica Greenberg Ring, a mother of three in Davie, Fla., went shopping with her daughter, Madison, she knew exactly where the 11-year-old would end up: in the shoe department, cradling a pair high heels.
''She's obsessed with all heels,'' said Ms. Ring, who recently bought a pair of gold sequin wedge sneakers for her daughter. ''She likes whatever's trendy.'' 
Once the stuff of tabloid headlines (there was general ''tsking'' when paparazzi captured Suri Cruise in silver peep-toe heels), wedges and heels for tots and tweens have gone mainstream, turning up in schoolyards and on playgrounds far from Hollywood or Madison Avenue.
Industry observers say the trend is part of a bigger, so-called ''mini-me'' craze in the children's wear market, linking fashions for children's clothing and accessories with the latest from mom and dad's runway, no matter how impractical it may be for a child's rough-and-tumble lifestyle. Witness, for example, the maxi-dresses on sale at GapKids or the rise of pricey designer duds for the under-6 set.
''We're into fast fashion,'' Jill Green, an East Coast sales representative for Steve Madden, said of her company's big bet on wedges. ''Something sells well in women's, we'll pick it up in kids.'' Roughly half of Steve Madden Kids spring/summer collection (six sneaker styles and a dozen other wedges and heels) has an elevated sole. (The company made pink, fringed wedge boots in toddler sizes last fall.)
Connie Cohen, a shoe buyer for Lester's, a clothing, shoe and accessory store for children and adults with five locations in New York, said she had recently sold out of 300 pairs of a Steven Madden wedge sneaker, her entire inventory of the style, and has invested in more for fall.
GapKids introduced two styles of wedge-heel flip-flops (both under $20) after offering wedge-heel sneakers for the first time last holiday season. The children's spring collection from Nina stars a hot-pink, rhinestone-accented sandal with a one-and a-half-inch wood heel ($48.95).
Synclaire Brands, a company that sells children's shoes under several licensed brands, has several wedges measuring one-and-three-quarter inches for sale. Standouts include a pair of Michael Michael Kors for girls espadrilles with thick gold leather-looking straps ($79 at shoes.com) and sandals with black raffia-style straps (on sale for $48.27 at Nordstrom) from Stuart Weitzman for children.
According to the NPD Group, a market research company in Port Washington, N.Y., sales of girls' fashion footwear, which does not include athletic shoes, grew 9 percent in the last year, to roughly $4 billion, after a 5 percent growth the previous year. Marshal Cohen, NPD's chief retail analyst, attributes the increase, which outpaced growth in adult fashion footwear, to the somewhat economy-proof nature of the business (''Kids' feet don't wait for the recession to be over,'' he said) as well as dressier trends in children's fashions. ''Girls want to emulate mom more, and parents are letting kids experiment with dressing up more,'' Mr. Cohen said.
But Tina Hambly, the founder and designer of Valentina Shoes, a line of girls' footwear, has so far resisted appeals from retailers to create styles with heels in preteen sizes. ''We as moms have to work at preserving our daughters' youth,'' said Ms. Hambly, who has a 9-year-old daughter.
Likewise, Sarah Cannova, an owner of Sassanova, a chain of women's and children's shoes and accessories in the Washington area, said that she was not going to buy girls' shoes with heels to sell in her stores or for any of her three young daughters. ''You're basically giving the green light to expediting childhood and going full speed on to womanhood,'' Ms. Cannova said. ''Childhood is over soon enough as it is.''
Dr. Shari E. Miles-Cohen, a senior director of the Women's Programs Office at the American Psychological Association in Washington, said that while young girls who wear their mother's heels around the house are only pretending to be adults, the ''line gets blurry'' (and the message confusing) when they are given the ''accouterments of adult clothing'' to wear in real life.
''The research suggests that the bombardment of sexualized images tell girls that popularity and social standing are based on looking like a sex object,'' Dr. Miles-Cohen wrote in an e-mail.
Besides potential social and psychological effects, there is also the question of whether these heels are safe for a child.
Dr. Adam L. Wollowick, assistant professor of orthopedic surgery at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, said that because of their open growth plates and softer bones, as well as still-developing coordination skills, children in elevated shoes are more susceptible to ankle sprains, fractures and contracture of the Achilles' tendon.
''None of this has been definitively proven because kids wearing heels is a new concept,'' said Dr. Wollowick, an adult and pediatric spinal and orthopedic surgeon. ''But if someone's going to consider allowing their kids to wear heels, I'd limit them to a couple hours at a time.''
That might be easier said than done. Recently Jill Smokler, a Baltimore-based blogger and author of ''Motherhood Comes Naturally (and Other Vicious Lies),'' was horrified when her husband brought home a pair of heels for their 9-year-old daughter, Lily, to wear to a cousin's bat mitzvah. ''Of course, she loved them and there was no getting them off her feet,'' she said.
She said she wishes her daughter, whose tastes run to glitter-fringed T-shirts, would stop trying to emulate young celebrities (Selena Gomez is a favorite). ''How I dress her and how she dresses herself differ greatly,'' she said with a sigh.
If women want their daughters to wear flats, their first step might be to back away from heels themselves. Of the wee wedges at Lester's, Ms. Cohen, the buyer there, said, ''I sell some of my bigger sizes to mothers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Suri Cruise in peep-toe heels in 2011, left. Above, from top, Michael Michael Kors for girls espadrilles, Stuart Weitzman for children and a rhinestone-accented sandal from the spring children's collection from Nina. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUMBERTO CARRENO/STARTRAKSPHOTO.COM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); FOOTWEAR (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (88%); TRENDS (77%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (76%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (74%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (72%); SHOE STORES (72%); FAST FASHION (68%)

COMPANY: STEVEN MADDEN LTD (85%)

TICKER: SHOO (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (85%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (85%); SIC3144 WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



3 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FITNESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Survival of the Undeadest

BYLINE: By COURTNEY RUBIN

 BODY:
Even with the looming prospect of fitting into a wedding gown, the only way Cindy Brandecker could imagine taking up running was if someone were chasing her.
So Ms. Brandecker, 32, has twice paid some $75 to spend a Saturday being pursued by blood-spattered, professionally made-up hordes of stumbling (and sprinting) dead at Run For Your Lives, a zombie-themed 5-kilometer (3.1-mile) race that also features apocalyptic obstacles like a pitch-black smoke-filled house with live wires.
To receive an ''I Survived'' medal, runners must cross the finish line (an electric fence with an 18-inch clearing they have to squeeze under) with at least one flag intact of the three they wear on a belt. About 30 percent of the participants earn a medal, according to company figures, though even the so-called ''infected'' or ''killed'' are allowed to finish the race.
''I'd hate to do a traditional 5K,'' said Ms. Brandecker, of South Bound Brook, N.J., who lost all her flags at both races. ''I don't understand people that find running fun, but having the obstacles and people coming after you makes it so it's fun.'' 
Purists may grumble that zombies don't run, yet the undead slots -- where participants dress up, have prosthetic pustules and bite marks applied, then stumble after or chase runners -- sell out almost immediately.
For a recent Run For Your Lives on a Christmas tree farm in Medford, N.J., there were 750 zombies and 7,500 runners. As is typical for these events (there are now about a half-dozen companies offering them), the crowd was mostly novice exercisers and zombie zealots, many of whom wear cameras mounted on helmets so they can upload videos to YouTube.
Zombies are everywhere: in AMC's hit TV show ''The Walking Dead'' (the top-rated scripted show of the 2012-13 season), in Brad Pitt's ''World War Z'' and Seth Rogen's ''This Is the End,'' and even in the venerable Archie Comics series, which has a forthcoming zombie story line.
Combined with the current mud-run craze, the brain-scoffing swarms have infected the fitness world, with events across the United States, including the Walking Dead Escape race at Comic-Con in July. Unsurprisingly, there is an app for this: Zombies, Run!, which raised financing in less than a week on Kickstarter. Released in 2012, it has been downloaded more than 500,000 times.
Unlike at Tough Mudder-type extreme races and even regular running ones, escapism and fun are the point of zombie-themed runs; pushing to the point of muscle failure is not. At Run For Your Lives, participants can skip obstacles, and there is little incentive to keep pace at the front of the pack, let alone sprint ahead. ''Stay in groups -- there's strength in numbers,'' said Barry Tsang, 35, of Jersey City, offering advice to runners in later waves after he survived the New Jersey event.
Danielle McDevitt, 31, of Absecon, N.J., a zombie outfitted in a leopard-print dress and a necklace that read ''SEXY,'' signed up with her sister so they could chase their husbands, who were running.
''I think in this day and age, everything's so serious,'' she said. ''You have to worry about your jobs and your mortgage. This was a time for us to not worry, to go get made up and be stupid and just have a good laugh.''
Ms. McDevitt thought she and her sister got a better workout than most of the competitors, who typically finish in less than an hour, while zombies are out on the course for around three hours, and ''we were running for all of it.'' (Their husbands escaped unscathed.)
Sarah Juliet Lauro, a visiting assistant professor at Clemson University who studies zombies (and whose work commitments have kept her from running in an event), said interest in zombies tends to spike when the economy splutters.
The races, she said, ''are a valve for releasing some anxiety, even if it's a threat that you can't really name or put your finger on.''
Run For Your Lives began in 2011, intended as a one-time event in a Baltimore suburb to help its founders get rid of excess workout clothes from a struggling start-up. The race attracted 12,000 people from around the world.
This year, there are 22 events in the United States and Canada, including one in Brooklyn in October. The Zombie Run, a competing company with a higher fear factor and an elaborate suspense-filled narrative, will host 16 events, aiming to be like the famous ''War of the Worlds'' radio broadcast by Orson Welles, ''where people might forget they're doing something that's staged,'' said Andrew Hudis, 20, a University of Pennsylvania junior and a founder of the company.
Even municipal governments have staged such runs, usually to publicize disaster preparedness, after the Centers for Disease Control in 2011 posted a tongue-in-cheek primer for coping with a zombie apocalypse.
''If you're ready for zombies, you can be ready for all the man-made and natural incidents that occur,'' said August Vernon, operations officer for North Carolina's Forsyth County Emergency Management Agency, which held a zombie 5K in April.
By 7:30 a.m. at the New Jersey event, blood (xanthan gum mixed with red and black dye, and water) was already being shed by the five-gallon bucketful.
The race's blood technician, James Howard, 27, stood in front of a long line of zombies, using a pitcher's windup to throw two handfuls of blood at each one.
''They'll stand there all day wanting more if you don't tell them to move on,'' said Mr. Howard, who inherited the job from his sister, who now works on the Netflix series ''House of Cards.''
The blood bath is the final step in the zombie transformation, which begins when the would-be actors arrive, costumes in hand, at the wardrobe tent. (Bridesmaid dresses are a popular choice for women, though Cerisa Michaels, 35, wore the strapless beaded white gown from her 2006 wedding. Yes, she is still married.) Race employees armed with dual-blade knives then offer to shred the ensembles.
Next up is makeup, a four-minute job for chaser zombies and eight minutes for stumblers because the latter ''are more decayed, so we use bluey-browns to sink their eyes and cheeks and an extra step of speckling them with dirt,'' said Crystal Soveroski, 33, the head makeup artist.
Lawlessness may rule in some zombie situations, but not here. The newly transformed undead somewhat impatiently listen to rules that include no biting or tackling. Dying too quickly is demoralizing for runners, so the zombies (randomly assigned to one of 14 zones) are told not to pull off flags for at least the first half-mile, and not to take the third (and last) flag from anyone until at least halfway through the course. ''Ten, 11, 12, 13 and 14: those are the kill zones,'' yelled Kevin Chilcoat, 28, the race's official zombie wrangler. A cheer went up from the undead masses.
Out on the course, Jen Gresh, 41, ran screaming and giggling with a handful of high school friends from Oxford, Pa., she used to watch zombie movies with at slumber parties in the 1980s -- and a waterproof disposable camera to capture the action.
No one in the group had any flags intact at the finish line, though her friend Tina Durborow, 42, said a survivor's medal was never the goal.
''We always envisioned that in the zombie apocalypse, the Class of '89 girls would get together,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One of 750 zombies who chased 7,500 runners over an obstacle course on a Christmas tree farm in Medford, N.J. (E1)
Far left, zombies trying to get runners' ribbons as they raced through the mud to the finish line
above, a monkey-bars obstacle along the course
 near left, Cerisa Michaels, wearing her wedding dress, being splashed with fake blood for her zombie transformation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); RUNNING (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); CHRISTMAS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (61%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (61%)

PERSON: BRAD PITT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



4 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: New Tools for Keeping the Lights On

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
RENSSELAER, N.Y. -- After the lights went out for 50 million people from the Northeast to the Midwest on Aug. 14, 2003, investigators found readings from two obscure instruments that would have given them an hour's warning -- plenty of time to solve the problem if the devices had been wired to provide a stream of critical data.
Now, a decade after the largest blackout in American history, engineers are installing and linking 1,000 of those instruments, called phasor measurement units, to try to prevent another catastrophic power failure. When the work is done, the engineers say, they will have a diagnostic tool that makes the old system seem like taking a patient's pulse compared with running a continuous electrocardiogram. 
Gilbert C. Bindewald III, a program manager at the Energy Department, which has spent about $200 million to encourage their installation, said the instruments were ''shedding light on the science that's occurring behind the scenes, within the grid.''
Phasor measurement units work by measuring the rhythm of current at different points on the power grid. Readings at every point within each of the three North American grids -- one covering the eastern two-thirds of North America, one covering the West, and one covering Texas -- are supposed to be basically the same. If the measurements differ, it can be a sign of imminent collapse. When the current is flowing properly, phasor measurement units record normal readings -- about as exciting as ''watching paint dry,'' in the words of Peter K. Lemme, a senior electrical engineer at the New York Independent System Operator, which runs New York's grid. As Mr. Lemme spoke, he looked at a real-time display of phasor measurement units across the state.
But then he replayed New York records from an afternoon three weeks ago when a capacitor, a device that helps maintain voltage, suddenly failed at a substation near Utica. In response, measurements taken at an electrical substation near Rochester registered an enormous shock on a graph. In Leeds, south of Albany, the disruption was considerably milder. The disturbance gradually petered out, like a playground swing that slowly comes to rest.
If that glitch had been large enough to threaten a statewide power failure, the new devices could have alerted the engineers to the impending crisis and given them time to react, for example, by shutting down a part of the system to avoid cascading power failures. Tracy A. Flippo, the vice president for transmission operations at the Tennessee Valley Authority, said the devices could provide ''precursor information'' before a collapse.
The hope is that they could help prevent or at least limit a large-scale blackout like the one that happened a decade ago.
In 2003, as northern Ohio ran short of generation and transmission because of a combination of neglect, mismanagement and human error, circuit breakers took major transmission lines out of service. The power failure then cascaded across 600 miles, eight states and Canada. New York, Cleveland and Detroit went dark, as did Toronto and sections of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut and Massachusetts. In New York office buildings were evacuated, thousands of commuters were stranded, and hospitals were flooded with patients suffering in the stifling heat.
''Somebody in Ohio could have recognized that we either need to raise generation or shed load,'' said Richard Dewey, senior vice president of the New York Independent System Operator. Or, he said, New York could have seen trouble coming and insulated itself. The two units scrutinized after the blackout, one in Detroit and one in Cleveland, showed the strain.
Other changes to the grid should help, too. The federal government, for example, has given an industry group the authority to set standards. That group, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, has levied substantial fines against companies that failed in tasks like trimming trees or testing equipment. Untrimmed trees and improper procedures for testing equipment have caused widespread power failures in recent years.
Joel deJesus, a former director of compliance enforcement at the corporation, said that in his view the large fines had been effective. ''Wrists have been slapped pretty hard,'' he said.
The network of phasor measurement units offers a technological advantage.
So far hundreds of phasor measurement units have been installed across the country, including 48 in New York.
Before then, the operators of the New York grid had only scattered data points within the state. For years they have been mostly blind to the grid outside New York, receiving only a few readings from devices at the borders with New England, Quebec, Ontario, and a region that includes Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland.
But by the end of 2014, officials at the Energy Department said, they anticipate that all 1,000 phasor measurement units will be in operation and linked to one another. The next step, they said, was to figure out how to better present the flood of data to human operators in a useful way.
''The question is, How do we cue them to an event that a computer might be able to see coming?'' said Mr. Bindewald of the Energy Department. Initially data will be integrated into computer displays, and later it may be used to set off automatic protective actions that would prevent or limit blackouts.
Experts argue that such a system could easily pay for itself. The 2003 blackout cost billions of dollars in lost economic output.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Manhattan skyline at sunrise during the 2003 blackout. New devices may stop future failures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP EAST/REUTERS) (B1)
 The New York Independent System Operator control room, which is under construction in Rensselaer, N.Y., will monitor the grid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (76%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (69%); ELECTRONIC CAPACITORS (64%); HISTORY (56%)

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); UTICA, NY, USA (58%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) MIDWEST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



5 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Unusual Feat in Congress: Student Loan Bill Breezes On

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Something pretty rare happened in Congress on Wednesday: it approved and sent to President Obama a major piece of public policy by an overwhelming bipartisan margin.
The feat was even more notable because the legislation, which created a new set of rates for federal student loans, is entwined with many of the issues that often divide Republicans and Democrats: the economy, the financial markets and the government's role in lending. It passed by a vote of 392 to 31 in the House.
Representative Luke Messer, Republican of Indiana, praised the student loan deal as a triumph of both policy and politics. 
''It's a great victory for taxpayers, because taxpayers won't be forced to subsidize student loan rates that are arbitrarily set by politicians,'' Mr. Messer said. ''This, I hope, opens the door to potential compromises on some of the other big issues that we have before us that we have to deal with in the next several months. This proves Washington can work.''
Despite such optimism, lawmakers had little choice but to find a path to a deal. Student loan rates doubled on July 1 because Congress could not come up with a plan to replace student lending laws that had expired.
Failing to act on a compromise before the end of this week would have left legislators heading home for a monthlong recess to face constituents already disillusioned over dysfunction and inaction in the Capitol. None wanted to face criticism that they were so inept that they could not protect middle-class families from paying double what they used to pay to borrow money for college.
Yet the vote, as encouraging as it was on the surface, raised the question of why Congress cannot find consensus on big issues more often. An overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, which passed the Senate in June, is stymied as House Republicans struggle to come up with a plan that unites the disparate views in their caucus. Though some believe that revamping the immigration system is crucial to the future of their party, others denounce any pathway to citizenship for the 11 million unauthorized immigrants in the country as amnesty.
Efforts to overhaul the tax code seem similarly stuck as Democrats demand more revenue, an idea that Republicans portray as unacceptable. And the parties have found even less common ground on the budget, as many conservatives insist that any new spending resolution not include financing for Mr. Obama's health care law.
''They don't trust each other,'' said Steve LaTourette, a former Republican congressman from Ohio and a close ally of Speaker John A. Boehner who decided to retire last year in large part because of his frustration with the dynamics on Capitol Hill. ''Boehner doesn't trust the president. The president doesn't trust Boehner. And until they do trust each other, you're not going to see anything big getting done.''
Passage of the student loan bill came the same day that House Republican leaders were forced to abruptly pull from the floor a $44.1 billion spending bill on transportation and housing because of a lack of votes. The bill had steep cuts that Republican moderates opposed. Community development block grants would have been cut in the coming fiscal year to $1.6 billion from $3.3 billion, a level lower than when the program began under President Gerald R. Ford.
Representative Hal Rogers, the Kentucky Republican who leads the Appropriations Committee, issued an unusual broadside after the bill was pulled, saying it was now clear that the House could not pass spending bills that complied with overall financing levels set in its own austere budget plan. That suggested tough times ahead for passing required spending bills, and some pointed out that even the student loan deal almost fell victim to the same fate that has doomed other big-ticket items in Congress.
''A few months ago, at least, it seemed like everybody expected a bill that connected student loan rates to Treasury rates would move ahead without any kind of trouble,'' said Neal P. McCluskey, an education analyst at the Cato Institute. ''And it was surprising when there was.''
The House passed a student loan plan in May. But Senate Democrats balked, saying that the borrowing rates it set were too high and would leave students and their families with too little protection from inflation and fluctuations in the financial markets. Then a coalition of liberal Democrats resisted any plan that linked rates to the financial markets, keeping a deal at bay for weeks.
Under the old federal student loan program, borrowers were offered a fixed rate. Under the new rate structure, which still drew opposition from nearly one-third of Senate Democrats when it passed last week, loans to undergraduates and graduate students, along with parents in the PLUS program, would be subject to a fixed rate plus the yield on the 10-year Treasury note.
Rates for loans taken out after July 1 of this year would be 3.9 percent for undergraduates, 5.4 percent for graduate students and 6.4 percent for those receiving PLUS loans. The rates are fixed over the life of the loan but would change for new borrowers each year.
In a compromise that pleased many Democrats who had initially been wary of using a rate that was subject to inflation and fluctuated with the markets, Congress set a cap on all loans: 8.25 percent for undergraduates, 9.5 for graduate students and 10.5 for PLUS recipients.
Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington, the chairwoman of the House Republican Conference, said that while she was ''disappointed it took as long as it did for us to get to this place on student loans,'' she hoped that the legislation was a harbinger.
''I hope this is setting the stage for more bipartisanship and success on other issues,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, at microphones, on Wednesday, when the House passed the student loan bill 392 to 31. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); FAMILY (71%); TAX REFORM (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); IMMIGRATION (67%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (62%)

PERSON: LUKE MESSER (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); STEVEN C LATOURETTE (58%); CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



6 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Judge Rejects Fed's Cap on Debit Card Fees

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
The billions of dollars that banks earn when consumers swipe their debit cards are under threat after a federal court ruling on Wednesday. The question is whether consumers will see any savings.
As part of its efforts to overhaul banks after the financial crisis, Congress targeted the fees that banks and other firms earn from retailers when consumers use debit cards. Lawmakers intended to limit the fees, and left it up to the Federal Reserve, a primary bank regulator, to work out the specifics of the cap.
But on Wednesday, Richard J. Leon, a district court judge in Washington, ruled that the Fed had failed to follow Congress's wishes in setting the cap. In doing so, the Fed had, in effect, been too kind to the banks. If the ruling stands, the Fed may have to place a lower limit on the so-called interchange fees, which could further reduce the revenue that financial firms reap from debit cards. 
Judge Leon's opinion was strongly worded. He said that, in working out the details of the fee cap, the Fed had run ''completely afoul of the text, design and purpose'' of what Congress had intended.
''We are reviewing the judge's opinion,'' Barbara Hagenbaugh, a Fed spokeswoman, said.
Senator Richard Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who was behind the legislation that capped the fees, welcomed the ruling. ''Today's decision by the Federal District Court is a victory for consumers and small business around the country and will lead to lower interchange rates for billions of debit card transactions each year,'' Mr. Durbin said.
Courts have struck down other aspects of the financial overhaul, but in ways that favor banks. The fight over debit card fees pits the powerful industries of retailing and banking against each other.
''It is a very significant decision,'' Stacie E. McGinn, a partner at Simpson Thacher, said. ''It's a decision that clearly favors the merchants.
The court's ruling was made in response to a lawsuit brought against the Fed by an array of retailers. The court on Wednesday delayed putting the order into effect. It has scheduled a hearing for Aug. 14 to decide on how to proceed.
The fee cap that the Fed introduced in 2011 did lead to much lower debit card revenue for banks. Bank of America, for example, saw its debit card revenue fall by $1.7 billion last year as a result of the cap. The banks now face the prospect of a deeper reduction. But critics of the banks have said they have made up for at least some of the lost revenues by charging other types of fees.
''It reduced debit interchange revenue by about 50 percent,'' Jason Goldberg, a bank analyst at Barclays, said. ''It now perhaps gets reduced a bit further.''
The banks and retailers are sparring over whether lower debit fees for retailers benefit consumers. The banks say the retailers have pushed for the lower fees not to benefit customers, but to pad their own bottom lines.
''It was -- and still is -- all about trying to help retailers increase profit margins while providing no real benefit to consumers,'' said Frank Keating, president of the American Bankers Association.
Retailers have said consumers would gain. ''Merchants are ready to pass lower swipe fees along to consumers in the form of discounts and other benefits as soon as reform goes into effect,'' Mallory Duncan, the general counsel of the National Retail Federation, said in 2011 before the Fed's cap was introduced. The federation is an industry group and one of the entities that brought the suit against the Fed.
On Wednesday, Mr. Duncan said customers had already seen benefits. ''You see gas stations offering savings for cash and for debit,'' he said. ''Nobody's margins are going up right now.''
Jessica Silver-Greenberg contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); DEBIT CARDS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CARD INTERCHANGE FEES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



7 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Piecing Together The Nation's Economic Picture

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
The American economy managed to stay on track last quarter, defying fears of another spring swoon, but doubts remain as to whether it will finally gain the kind of sustained momentum that has proved so elusive since the recovery began four years ago.
The mixed picture facing the country was evident on Wednesday, as the Commerce Department reported that the economy, adjusted for inflation, expanded at a better-than-expected annual rate of 1.7 percent in the April-June quarter, even as inflation-adjusted growth in the first part of the year now appears slower than first thought. In a separate statement after a two-day meeting of policy makers at the Federal Reserve, the central bank said the economy was on a ''modest'' trajectory but gave no clue as to when it might start tapering back its huge stimulus efforts.
Like economists and traders, as well as the 12 million unemployed Americans looking for work, the Fed is struggling to gauge whether better growth does indeed lie ahead. 
Optimists point to improved levels of job creation in recent months, a more robust housing sector and a surging stock market that has lifted the value of investment and retirement accounts for millions of consumers. Pessimists focus on the fact that the estimated economic growth rate of about 1.4 percent so far in 2013 is well below last year's levels of 2.8 percent, even as automatic cuts in federal spending and higher taxes continue to bite.
There were pockets of strength in Wednesday's data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis, all of which will be subject to further revision as the Commerce Department gathers more information about the economy. For example, residential fixed investment increased by 13.4 percent, a sign that housing continues to rebound. Personal consumption rose 1.8 percent, as consumers showed some resiliency, especially given the increase in payroll taxes at the beginning of 2013.
Additionally, government experts have introduced the first comprehensive change in four years in how the economy is measured. They revised figures all the way back to 1929, while also restating more recent data to show that the 2007-9 recession was slightly milder than originally estimated and growth in 2012 was a bit better.
Still, economists emphasized that although the economy's performance in the second quarter was significantly stronger than had been feared -- Wall Street experts forecast growth would come in at just under 1 percent -- big challenges remain.
''The basic story of a deep recession followed by a lackluster recovery is essentially unchanged,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS. Growth in the current quarter, which wraps up at the end of next month, remains a wild card, he added. IHS and other companies do expect a pickup in the second half of 2013, but more fallout from the fiscal tightening in Washington could still be felt, he cautioned.
''So far the effects have been fairly muted,'' Mr. Behravesh said. ''We're puzzling over that.''
Were it not for the federal cuts, growth would have been close to 2 percent in both the first and second quarters, said Steve Blitz, chief economist at ITG Investment Research. But that's about the best Americans can hope for, he said, at least in 2013.
''I don't see the economy breaking away from that 2 percent rate for now,'' Mr. Blitz said. He is more optimistic about 2014, when he said he thought the annual rate of growth could rise to about 3.5 percent. ''The economy will have adjusted to the downshift in federal spending by then, and Europe won't be decelerating as rapidly, nor will China and Japan,'' he said.
The pace at which spending by the federal government is dropping stabilized last quarter. It fell by 1.5 percent, compared with an 8.4 percent decrease in the first quarter of 2013 and a 13.9 percent plunge in the final quarter of 2012.
More clues about the economy's performance will come on Friday, when the Labor Department reports on monthly job creation and the unemployment rate. Economists estimate the economy created 185,000 jobs in July, according to a Bloomberg survey, a bit below the 195,000 level in June, with the unemployment rate falling to 7.5 percent, from 7.6 percent.
In a separate report on Wednesday, Automatic Data Processing reported that private sector employers added 200,000 jobs in July, a bit above what analysts had expected. While the A.D.P. report does not always align with the broader figures released by the Labor Department, the figure was interpreted as another positive sign. A.D.P. also increased its original estimate of the number of private sector jobs added in June to 198,000, from 188,000.
One of the biggest economic puzzles this year is why job creation has been relatively healthy -- the economy added an average of 202,000 jobs a month in the first half of 2013, consistent with an economic expansion of 2.5 percent to 3 percent -- when the actual rate reported by the government was only half that.
One explanation is that the government has underestimated the true strength of the economy, and will revise it upward at some point in the future, much as the Bureau of Economic Analysis raised its estimate for growth in gross domestic product in 2012 to 2.8 percent, from 2.2 percent, on Wednesday.
The revisions also suggest that the recession, which lasted from the fourth quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2009, was slightly less damaging to overall output, even as the subsequent recovery was somewhat stronger. Based on the latest measures, inflation-adjusted output growth decreased at an annual rate of 2.9 percent during that time, instead of the previously reported 3.2 percent. The government frequently recalibrates its tools for measuring the economy. Wednesday signaled the first time the Bureau of Economic Analysis broke out a separate category for what it calls ''intellectual property products,'' which covers research and development; entertainment, literary and artistic originals; and software.
Another possibility is that the uncertainty that held back job creation in the last few years has begun to fade, said Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays. Shocks like the economic crisis in Europe as well as the federal debt standoff and credit downgrade in the United States have started to fade in the rearview mirror, he said, encouraging some employers to catch up in terms of hiring.
''Our models tell us that when uncertainty spikes, job growth slows relative to growth in G.D.P.,'' Mr. Maki said. ''But uncertainty only delays activity, it doesn't destroy it. Employers gradually add jobs back over time, and we think that's what's going on.''
DEBATE ON GROWTH: Two blog contributors -- Casey B. Mulligan, a professor at the University of Chicago, and Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities -- are in a vigorous debate that highlights some fundamental differences over the economy. Professor Mulligan, arguing that ''high levels of consumer spending are a consequence of economic growth, not a cause of it,'' disputes Mr. Bernstein's assertion that inequality that weakens middle-class consumer spending can harm growth. In reply, Mr. Bernstein says that ''when the economy is operating with excess slack,'' it is widely accepted that ''Keynesian stimulus can lead to faster growth,'' much of it through consumer spending. nytimes.com/economix

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Stock Exchange after the Federal Reserve said it would keep its rates unchanged. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) GRAPHICS: Change in Consumer Price Index, excluding food and energy (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
Unemployment rate (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 Change in real G.D.P.: Quarterly change, seasonally adjusted at annual rate (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INFLATION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); STATISTICS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); CORPORATE TAX (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

PERSON: NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



8 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg. 

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Milestone Claimed in Creating Fuel From Waste

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After months of frustrating delays, a chemical company announced Wednesday that it had produced commercial quantities of ethanol from wood waste and other nonfood vegetative matter, a long-sought goal that, if it can be expanded economically, has major implications for providing vehicle fuel and limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
The company, INEOS Bio, a subsidiary of the European oil and chemical company INEOS, said it had produced the fuel at its $130 million Indian River BioEnergy Center in Vero Beach, Fla., which it had hoped to open by the end of last year. The company said it was the first commercial-scale production of ethanol from cellulosic feedstock, but it did not say how much it had produced. Shipments will begin in August, the company said. 
The process begins with wastes -- wood and vegetative matter for now, municipal garbage later -- and cooks it into a gas of carbon monoxide and hydrogen. Bacteria eat the gas and excrete alcohol, which is then distilled. Successful production would eliminate some of the ''food versus fuel'' debate in the manufacturing of ethanol, which comes from corn.
''Biomass gasification has not been done like this before, nor has the fermentation,'' said Peter Williams, chief executive of INEOS Bio.
The plant, which uses methane gas from a nearby landfill, has faced a variety of problems. One was getting the methane, which is a greenhouse gas if released unburned, to the plant's boilers. (The plan is to eventually run the plant on garbage that now goes to landfills.) Another problem was its reliance on the electrical grid.
The plant usually generates more power than it needs -- selling the surplus to the local utility -- and is supposed to be able to operate independently. But when thunderstorms knocked out the power grid, the plant unexpectedly shut down and it took weeks to get it running again, said Mark Niederschulte, the chief operating officer of INEOS Bio.
''We've had some painful do/undo loops,'' he said.
The plant has produced ''truckloads'' of ethanol, said Mr. Williams, but still has work to do to improve its yield. Mr. Niederschulte said, ''Now we want to produce more ethanol from a ton of wood, rather than just making ethanol from a ton of wood.''
The Department of Energy hailed the development as the first of a kind, and said it was made possible by research work the department had sponsored in recent years. The energy secretary, Ernest Moniz, said in a statement, ''Unlocking the potential for the responsible development of all of America's rich energy resources is a critical part of our all-of-the-above energy strategy.''
The Environmental Protection Agency, which grants valuable credits to companies that produce fuel from wastes, confirmed that only a very small volume has been produced so far. Another company, KiOR, has produced some diesel fuel from wood waste at a plant in Columbus, Miss.
Congress laid out a quota for production of biofuels from nonfood sources, but the agency has had to cut it back every year because of lack of production.
INEOS has a goal of eight million gallons a year.
If ethanol can be produced at reasonable cost from abundant nonfood sources, like yard trimmings or household trash, it could displace fuel made from oil, and that oil, and its carbon, could stay in the ground, reducing the amount greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, experts say. Carbon from wood scraps or garbage would enter the atmosphere via cellulosic ethanol, but cutting down a tree or trimming a garden creates space for new growth, which absorbs carbon dioxide from the air.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLS (91%); CHEMICALS (90%); BIOMASS (90%); METHANE (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); LANDFILLS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); CARBON MONOXIDE (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



9 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Bond Purchases by Fed Will Continue, at Least For Another Month

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve issued a 700-word statement on Wednesday, but four words would have sufficed: see you in September.
As expected, the Fed's policy-making committee voted to press ahead for now with its campaign to increase job creation. And its statement said nothing about how much longer it would continue to add $85 billion a month to its holdings of mortgage-backed securities and Treasury securities. But the Fed left its economic outlook basically unchanged, suggesting that the central bank still intended to reduce the volume of its purchases later this year.
The statement, issued after a regular two-day meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, acknowledged the weak pace of growth during the first half of the year, which it described as ''modest'' rather than ''moderate'' -- the words are synonymous in English but distinct in the Fed's carefully calibrated lexicon, suggesting an even more lackluster economic performance. But it maintained the Fed's forecast that ''economic growth will pick up from its recent pace'' in the coming months, driving job creation. 
The statement also repeated language first introduced after the Fed's previous meeting, in June, that ''the committee sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished since the fall,'' when the Fed began this latest push aimed at increasing the pace of growth.
Analysts said they expected the committee to cut back at its next meeting in mid-September. Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays Capital, said the statement was ''on the dovish side'' because of its references to slower growth, rising mortgage rates and low inflation. Nonetheless, he added, ''We continue to expect the F.O.M.C. to taper the asset purchase program in September, provided that the next two employment reports are reasonably strong.''
The committee had little time to grapple with the implications of the latest economic data. The government announced earlier Wednesday that the economy expanded at an annual rate of 1.7 percent in the second quarter, better than economists had expected but below the pace that Fed officials regard as necessary to create enough jobs to bring down the unemployment rate.
The Fed repeated its stark assessment that ''fiscal policy is restraining economic growth.'' It also noted that ''mortgage rates have risen somewhat,'' a new check on the economy that is at least partly of the Fed's own creation.
The average interest rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage rose to 4.37 percent in July from 3.54 percent in May, according to a survey conducted by Freddie Mac. But that increase is only partly the result of investor uneasiness about the Fed's plans; it also reflects an improved economic outlook. And that improved outlook, in turn, is mitigating the impact of the rate increases.
David Hall, president of Shore Mortgage in Troy, Mich., said that the higher rates had cut into demand for refinancing, but that demand for mortgages to buy a home remained strong. ''People understand the historical context, that these are still really low rates, and coupled with all the news about home values rising, there's still a lot of excitement about buying,'' he said. ''That excitement has overshadowed the rate increases a little bit.''
The Fed has also become more concerned about the sluggish pace of inflation. Prices rose at an annual pace of just 0.8 percent in the second quarter, according to the Fed's preferred measuring stick, a measure of inflation compiled by the Bureau of Economic Analysis -- well below the 2 percent annual pace that the Fed considers healthy. Low inflation can cause problems, although Mr. Bernanke recently noted that the reasons were ''hard to explain to your uncle.'' The primary cause for concern is the risk that prices will begin to fall, which can plunge the economy into a debilitating cycle of deflation as prospective buyers wait for prices to fall even further.
James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, chided his fellow officials for underplaying this risk at the committee's June meeting. This time the Fed noted the risk in the statement but maintained its official view that the pace of price increases was likely to rise.
The statement was supported by 11 of the 12 members of the Federal Open Market Committee. The sole dissenter was Esther L. George, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, who has dissented at each meeting this year, citing the risks of financial destabilization and higher inflation.
The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, surprised investors after the committee's June meeting by announcing that the Fed expected to reduce the volume of its monthly asset purchases later this year, and to end the purchases by the middle of next year, so long as economic growth met the Fed's expectations.
Interest rates rose in response, undermining the purpose of the bond-buying program, but Fed officials have not backed away from the timeline. They have been at pains to emphasize that they are not changing their goals. A reduction in purchases, they say, would reflect a judgment that the Fed has begun to achieve those goals. But at the same time, officials have said that if the economy requires more help, they would prefer to use other instruments.
Mr. Bernanke described this as ''a change in the mix of tools'' in testimony before the House Financial Services Committee earlier this month, suggesting that the Fed would prefer to extend its policy of holding short-term interest rates near zero rather than once again expanding its bond portfolio.
The shift appears to reflect a reassessment of the potential costs of asset purchases. A number of Fed officials have expressed concern that the bond buying could destabilize markets by, for example, reducing the supply of low-risk assets, distorting prices or encouraging speculation. Other economists, including Lawrence H. Summers, a leading candidate to succeed Mr. Bernanke, have expressed similar concerns about the purchases, which go under the label ''quantitative easing.''
At the same time, the Fed has faced persistent questions about the benefits of the purchases. Mr. Bernanke and his allies say the bond-buying, by reducing borrowing costs, has contributed to a recent rise in home and auto purchases. Other economists, however, regard its contribution as minor, at best.
Fed officials and supportive economists also have suggested that the central bank's asset purchases were valuable in convincing investors that the Fed was maintaining its long-term commitment to suppressing borrowing costs: so long as the Fed is buying bonds, it is not about to start raising rates. That belief has contributed to the buoyancy of the stock market. But this rationale, too, has its critics. James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, said that in his view the bond-buying was suppressing growth by treating the economy as if it required life support, which was undermining confidence.
''The Fed is perpetuating a crisis environment by remaining on crisis footing,'' Mr. Paulsen said. ''It's time for them to end Q.E. and let the markets see that they can stand on their own.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, at a House committee meeting last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); STATISTICS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (60%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (60%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



10 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Peter M. Flanigan, Banker and Nixon Aide, Dies at 90

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Peter M. Flanigan, a Wall Street investment banker who became one of President Richard M. Nixon's most trusted, influential and well-connected aides on business and economic matters, died on Monday in Salzburg, Austria. He was 90.
His family announced the death. 
Mr. Flanigan, an executive at the venerable investment house Dillon, Read & Company, was an early and strong supporter of Nixon before being appointed principal presidential assistant for financial matters. His facility in advancing business interests in regulatory agencies led Time magazine to label him ''Mr. Fixit.''
His wide-ranging assignments included securities regulation, antitrust matters, and agricultural and environmental policies. Administration officials compared his influence on business issues to Henry A. Kissinger's on foreign affairs.
''He's the guy who people in our industry turn to,'' a steel executive told The New York Times in 1972. ''And we wouldn't turn to him unless he came through.''
Mr. Nixon applauded his contributions to international economic policy and to the country's moving to an all-volunteer Army. But some saw him as the face of an administration that had cozied up to business interests. Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate, acknowledged Mr. Flanigan's influence by calling him a ''mini-president.'' He also called him the ''most evil'' man in Washington.
Mr. Flanigan was sharply criticized in Congress for his role in the Justice Department's decision not to pursue an antitrust case against the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation as an illegal conglomerate. He had arranged for a colleague at Dillon, Read to draft a financial analysis that helped persuade the administration to drop antitrust charges.
At a hearing in 1972, Senator Thomas F. Eagleton, a Missouri Democrat, characterized Mr. Flanigan's interventions on behalf of business as ''the Flanigan factor.'' The senator accused him of holding back enforcement actions by the Environmental Protection Agency against the Anaconda Corporation and the Armco Steel Corporation.
Mr. Eagleton called Mr. Flanigan ''the mastermind, the possessor of the scuttling feet that are heard faintly, retreating into the distance in the wake of a White House ordered cave-in to some giant corporation.''
The White House press secretary, Ronald L. Ziegler, responded that the president wholly supported Mr. Flanigan. He demanded ''concrete evidence that Mr. Flanigan has gained personally in any way.'' Senator Norris Cotton, a New Hampshire Republican, called Mr. Eagleton's charges ''flimsy.''
Mr. Flanigan was unruffled. ''I've gotten, as my wife says, a little leathery,'' he told The Washington Post. ''It's an election year, and I note who's making these charges.''
He left the administration in June 1974, just weeks before the Watergate scandal forced Nixon to resign. Mr. Flanigan himself was not linked to the scandal. President Gerald R. Ford, Nixon's successor, nominated him to be ambassador to Spain, but the Senate did not vote on his appointment before a scheduled recess. Some senators said that Mr. Flanigan had arranged for prestigious ambassadorships to go to big Nixon contributors. Mr. Flanigan asked that his nomination not be resubmitted.
Peter Magnus Flanigan was born on June 21, 1923, in Manhattan and raised there. His father, Horace Flanigan, who was known as Hap, was chairman of the Manufacturers Trust Company, later Manufacturers Hanover. His mother, the former Aimee Magnus, was a granddaughter of Adolphus Busch, co-founder of Anheuser-Busch.
Mr. Flanigan was a Navy carrier pilot in World War II, then graduated summa cum laude from Princeton. He joined Dillon as a statistical analyst. He took a break in 1949-50 to work in London for the Marshall Plan, the initiative to rebuild war-ravaged Europe, then returned to Dillon. He became a vice president in 1954.
Mr. Flanigan became active in New York Republican politics in the mid-1950s and was named chairman of New Yorkers for Nixon in 1959 as Nixon, then vice president, was seeking the 1960 presidential nomination. Mr. Flanigan became national director of Nixon volunteers in 1960.
Nixon wrote in his memoirs in 1978 that Mr. Flanigan was one of a small group of Republicans who had raised money for him to campaign for Republican candidates in the 1966 midterm elections as an early step toward Nixon's seeking the 1968 nomination.
In 1968, he was Nixon's deputy campaign manager. After Nixon's victory, Mr. Flanigan was a talent scout for the transition team. He served as a presidential assistant until 1972, when he was named director of the Council of International Economic Policy.
Mr. Flanigan's first wife, the former Brigid Snow, died in 2006.
Mr. Flanigan is survived by his second wife, Dorothea von Oswald, whom he married five years ago and with whom he lived in Wildenhag, Austria, and Purchase, N.Y. He is also survived by his daughters Sister Louise Marie, Brigid and Megan; his sons Tim and Bob; and 16 grandchildren.
After his White House service, Mr. Flanigan returned to Dillon, where he was managing director until 1992. The passion of his latter years was education, notably starting a program to help inner-city Roman Catholic schools. He was chairman of the Alliance for School Choice. His great love was St. Ann's Roman Catholic School in East Harlem, to which he gave more than $250,000.
His visits there were appreciated. ''I want to make something of myself,'' Lawrence King, a seventh grader, told The Times in 1992. ''It's important to have someone to look up to.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter M. Flanigan in 1990. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON HOGAN CHARLES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (70%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (65%)

COMPANY: DILLON READ & CO INC (84%); WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (91%); RALPH NADER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (73%) AUSTRIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



11 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Shutting Down the Piracy Business

BYLINE: By MICHIEL B. HIJMANS, JOSEPH S. SZYLIOWICZ and SIGURD NEUBAUER

 BODY:
U.S. federal prosecutors are seeking the death penalty for three Somalis convicted of murdering four Americans whose yacht was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean off Oman in 2011. Although nearly two dozen Somali pirates have now been convicted in U.S. courts, these three men are the first to potentially face the death penalty.
Against the backdrop of the U.S. trial, a largely unknown and underreported humanitarian tragedy caused by the brutality of pirates is unfolding: Unlike the Americans killed by pirates after negotiations for their release failed, the crews of many smaller ships, known as dhows, operating in the Indian Ocean often end up as slaves, never to return to their homelands because their Indian, Pakistani or Iranian owners cannot afford to pay their ransom. 
In 2011, ships participating in NATO's Operation Ocean Shield, a counterpiracy action, helped free more than a hundred fishermen and small-ship owners from captivity. Their rescue occurred when NATO disrupted pirate attack groups using captured dhows as mother ships from which to operate. Many of the hostages had spent more than a year in captivity and reported severe maltreatment by the pirates.
Beyond such violations of human rights and opportunistic kidnapping of Western nationals, pirates have also demonstrated a systematic pursuit of human trafficking, arms trading and drug smuggling. The United Nations believes that northern Somalia is a focal point for such trafficking -- with skiffs ferrying migrants across to Yemen and then returning loaded with weapons.
Stopping this trafficking is no easy matter. Although the Gulf of Aden is heavily patrolled by international warships safeguarding the sea lanes, their U.N. mandate only allows them to apprehend traffickers when human lives are in immediate danger. Meanwhile, the traffickers slip through with ease to pursue their criminal activities.
To combat piracy and trafficking, the international community should work with the F.B.I., Europol and Interpol to take on the land-based criminal networks that control the pirates by disrupting their money flows. Arresting and prosecuting the leaders and financiers of piracy groups could severely disrupt their businesses. Often the ringleaders who operate these gangs reside outside of Somalia and so have escaped prosecution. A concerted international effort must be made to identify the individuals involved, shut down their operations and bring them to justice.
The international community should also continue to support initiatives like the European Union's Eucap Nestor, a civilian mission backed by military expertise to help Kenya, Tanzania, Djibouti, the Seychelles and Somalia combat piracy and terrorism. As a complement, the E.U. Training Mission Somalia, operating in Uganda, has provided military instruction for 3,000 Somali soldiers. These troops are already working to enhance their country's security.
Thanks to such efforts, the number of pirate attacks in the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Aden has decreased significantly. But off of West Africa, a region noted for political instability and widespread corruption, pirate attacks have risen sharply. Here, piracy is even more profitable than on the other side of Africa. Ships and their crews are not typically held for ransom; instead the robbers violently seize ships, steal all the valuables they can, and move the precious cargo, like oil, onto smaller vessels.
To deal with this problem, West African nations met in Cameroon in late June and adopted a code of conduct for dealing with piracy. Based on the Djibouti code of conduct established by East African and Arab states in 2009 to fight piracy in the Indian Ocean, the Cameroon code calls on governments to apprehend and prosecute pirates, interdict ships suspected of engaging in piracy and help repatriate fishermen and others who are victims of piracy.
Given the limited maritime capabilities of the littoral states, achieving these goals won't be simple. The international community can help by providing funding and using ''soft power'' to ensure that the code is enforced.
Arab states can and should play a more important role in the fight against piracy in the Indian Ocean. Drawing upon their historical ties to Somalia, members of the Gulf Cooperation Council and the Islamic Development Bank could play a lead role in funding development initiatives while also strengthening partnerships with tribal leaders across Somalia. The G.C.C. and the I.D.B. could also help fund regional initiatives in West Africa to strengthen security there.
If the human costs of piracy are to be reduced, strong leadership will be required from the European Union and the United States, preferably in close coordination with the United Nations and other important stakeholders like China, India and Russia. It is also critical for Washington to support existing U.N., NATO, E.U. and other counterpiracy initiatives and to work closely with these organizations and countries until piracy once again becomes an activity that takes place largely in the movies.
Michiel B. Hijmans is a Dutch commodore and the Netherlands' deputy military representative to NATO-E.U. Joseph S. Szyliowicz is a professor at the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the University of Denver. Sigurd Neubauer is a defense and foreign policy specialist based in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOMALI PIRACY (90%); MARITIME PIRACY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); CORRUPTION (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); TERRORISM (75%); NAVAL VESSELS (75%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (70%); SMUGGLING (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (65%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); ARMED FORCES (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); SOMALIA (94%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); INDIA (79%); YEMEN (79%); SEYCHELLES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UGANDA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



12 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Sending Message to Iran, House Approves Tougher Sanctions

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
The House overwhelmingly approved legislation on Wednesday that would impose the toughest sanctions yet on Iran, calling the measure a critical step to cripple the country's disputed nuclear program and brushing aside calls for restraint by critics who said the Iranian president-elect should first be given a chance to negotiate.
The 400-to-20 vote to approve the legislation, known as the Nuclear Iran Prevention Act, came four days before the inauguration of Iran's President-elect Hassan Rouhani, a moderate cleric who won on a tide of dissatisfaction with the conservative hard-liners who have been in power in Iran for the past eight years. Mr. Rouhani, a former nuclear negotiator, has said he will seek to ease tensions with the United States. 
''Iran may have a new president, but its march toward a nuclear program continues,'' Representative Ed Royce, a California Republican who was a main sponsor of the bipartisan legislation, said after the vote. ''The economic and political pressure on Tehran must be ratcheted up.''
There had been little doubt that the bill, which now goes to the Senate for consideration in September after the Congressional summer recess, would be approved, given the widespread antipathy in Washington for Iran's government since the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
But the timing of the vote had raised alarm among some lawmakers who contended it would be viewed in Iran as a blatantly hostile signal at a delicate time. Experts in Iranian politics said they feared the vote could embolden Iran's hard-liners and weaken Mr. Rouhani's ability to ease the estrangement with the United States.
''They have a strong case to make that they can't trust us,'' said Gary G. Sick, an Iran expert who teaches at Columbia and served on the National Security Council under the Ford, Carter and Reagan administrations, which included the break with Iran. ''What the Congress is trying to do is confirm that.''
Mr. Royce and other supporters of the bill rejected that view, arguing that Mr. Rouhani will have limited power under Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who deeply mistrusts the United States. ''Congressional efforts to impose new sanctions should not be based on the Iranian political calendar,'' Mr. Royce said.
There appeared to be a cold reception to a letter, signed by 16 representatives, that had urged a delay in the vote. ''I hope the recent election makes a difference in Iran, but the only way to ensure it doesn't is to tell the Iranian people, 'We don't care what you do,' '' said Representative Earl Blumenauer, an Oregon Democrat who signed the letter.
The legislation, if enacted and fully enforced, would theoretically devastate what remains of Iran's ability to export oil, its most important product, by threatening customers with heavy penalties if they do not find other suppliers. It would also eliminate Iran's already diminished ability to access money in overseas accounts, and would expand the American sanctions blacklist to include Iran's automotive, mining, construction and engineering industries. Anyone doing business with those industries would be penalized in the American market, effectively ostracizing them internationally.
The National Iranian American Council, a group that has faulted Iran's government but opposes sanctions as a negotiation strategy, said the House vote risked squandering a major chance to engage with Iran.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); RELIGION (70%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); EDWARD R ROYCE (78%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); EARL BLUMENAUER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



13 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: The Hail-Mary-Moon

BYLINE: By CARRIE SEIM

 BODY:
It's a steamy summer day in the middle of vacation season, and the beach, whether on Martha's Vineyard, Cape Cod or Sanibel Island, is packed. Couples -- some a few years past their honeymoon but still sporting its glow, others creased from decades of togetherness -- frolic in the sand, splash in the surf, slather each other with suntan lotion and toast with freshly mixed margaritas.
Which of these pairs are secretly trying to save their marriage?
Couples deal with relationship woes in many ways -- from denial to outright war, and every fraught emotion in between. But for some, egged on by couples' therapists and travel agents, the best way to address a rift in the marriage, and to see whether it can be healed, is to take a last-ditch vacation, maybe a beach getaway or a road trip  deux. 
For the lucky ones, it works.
Just ask Tom Slook, 46, and Suzy Stauffer, 49, from Glen Mills, Pa., just outside of Philadelphia. In an 11th-hour effort to save their 20-year marriage, Mr. Slook booked a five-day cruise to Cozumel, Mexico, last December.
Sparks flew (the good kind). Shortly after returning to shore, they called off the divorce mediator. ''We realized we wanted to come home together,'' he said.
For others, not so much.
The humorist Dan Greenburg insisted on taking his wife, Nora Ephron, on an African photo safari in 1972, even though she said they would probably split. When they returned home, she asked for a divorce.
''But I took you to Africa!'' he said.
Yes, she said, it was a wonderful time. But she still wanted a divorce.
Harriet Lerner, a psychologist and author of ''Marriage Rules: A Manual for the Married and the Coupled Up,'' said she has noticed an increase in patients taking such ''save-cations'' in the last few years. She links the rise of these trips to belt-tightening in the wake of the Great Recession.
''A divorce can be much worse economically than going away for a few days together,'' said Dr. Lerner, who is based in Lawrence, Kan.
With time ticking toward a breakup, troubled couples are planning one final, against-all-odds vacation in a desperate play to snatch romance from the jaws of divorce. Honeymoon? Babymoon? Call it a Hail-Mary-moon.
Jaclyn Sienna India, co-founder of the Sienna Charles Travel Agency, said that more than 10 of her upscale clients approached her in recent months to plan a Hail-Mary-moon, a notable increase for her boutique firm, which has offices in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla.
''If you can't get it together in the Maldives or Bali, then where can you?'' she asked.
Or, for that matter, Iceland. That's where Michelle, a graphic designer from the Upper East Side of Manhattan, and her banker boyfriend, Joey, flew last November on a mission to salvage their four-year relationship. (The couple asked that their last names not be used to maintain their privacy.)
''We were absolutely in a bad place,'' Michelle, 30, said. Their travel agent, Dane Steele Green, suggested Iceland as an active destination where they wouldn't just sit on a beach and bicker for six days. ''I went with a pit in my stomach. But I had a credit card, and I knew if all hell broke loose, I could always hit the road.''
''It's almost like a teenager being dragged by your parents on vacation,'' she added.
The pair spent five days scaling glaciers, an ocean away from the pressures of home. Midway through a trail ride, Michelle, who hadn't realized she was allergic to horses, began wheezing and felt her eyes puff up. Joey, 34, sprang into action, lifting her off the horse, rushing her back to the hotel for a shower and tracking down antihistamines. Michelle said his gallantry, along with a mesmerizing night under the Northern Lights ''and some Champagne to take the edge off,'' rekindled the magic between them. ''We became like magnets -- but right-side-up this time,'' she said, laughing. On the plane back to New York, they recommitted to staying together. (Although, she noted wryly, ''I still don't have a ring on it.'')
A similar rekindling took place for Mr. Slook and Ms. Stauffer, who wooed each other with couples massages, snorkeling larks and plenty of sips in the ship's martini bar. She was ultimately won over on a backcountry ATV excursion, which was similar to a trip they had taken on their honeymoon in Costa Rica. ''It reminded me of us as a couple,'' Ms. Stauffer said.
But the cruise wasn't all margaritas and conga lines, Mr. Slook cautioned. ''You have to go with the expectation that it's not going to be your best vacation ever -- that you're there to work,'' he said.
Finding your own Rikers Island of reconciliation is not as easy as it sounds. Do you pick a place built for passion and sunset walks on the beach? Or a place brimming with enough perilous zip-lines and shark dives to bond you for life?
Dr. Lerner emphasizes that wherever the destination, at least one partner must have a genuine interest in salvaging the relationship. Also: ''No nagging, complaining, criticizing or blaming,'' she said.
Hail-Mary-moons can have downsides, of course. David M. Frost, a psychologist and assistant professor at Columbia University who studies long-term romantic relationships, warns that these trips are often quixotic and can easily backfire. ''It's highly unlikely that a vacation can be a magic cure-all -- it might only be a temporary Band-Aid,'' he said. Even worse, he added, the forced closeness might cause relationships to suffocate and implode.
That might explain the do-or-die vacation that Melissa Evans took to salvage her 12-year marriage in 2011. ''I was doing everything I could possibly do to win him back,'' said Ms. Evans, 41, a corporate marketer from southern Vermont.
The couple checked into a sumptuous hotel in Cancn, Mexico, and spent happy moments paragliding, swimming and beachcombing. But as they lounged on an oversize cabana bed, she gazed at her husband and felt the connection between them evaporate.
''It was one of the saddest moments of my life,'' she said. ''I was trying to be as easy-breezy as I could on the trip, but my heart was shattering.'' They fought on the drive home from the airport. Six months later, they separated. The divorce was finalized last January.
Indeed, these trips might be better labeled sink-or-swim. Karen Schaler, the author of ''Travel Therapy: Where Do You Need to Go,'' took a last-chance vacation herself six years ago, chartering a 45-foot catamaran in the British Virgin Islands.
She and her boyfriend docked at the luxurious Peter Island Resort, surrounded by honeymooning couples and breathtaking ocean vistas, but Ms. Schaler felt herself floundering.
''The more romantic the trip got, the more I was like, 'Oh my God, I am in the right place with the wrong guy,' '' she said. A few weeks later, the pair split for good.
And then there are times when a Hail-Mary-moon is intercepted. Jessica Chafetz, 36, a dietitian from Bellmore, N.Y, is still aghast about a last-resort cruise to the Caribbean she took in 2008 with her husband of seven years.
The cruise was booked a year in advance, but she and her husband decided to forge ahead anyway, in part because their best friends -- a couple who was also having troubles -- were coming.
Big mistake. ''My husband and my best friend kept disappearing together,'' Ms. Chafetz said. She recalls one particularly excruciating evening when the two couples dropped into the ship's nightclub as the steamy song ''Low'' by Flo Rida came on. Ms. Chafetz watched in horror as her best friend ''got all on top of my husband'' on the dance floor.
On the last day at sea, her best friend announced that was she quitting marriage counseling. Two days later, Ms. Chafetz's husband said he wanted a divorce. Before long, the two were openly dating.
But all was not lost. As both divorces were finalized, Ms. Chafetz and the other husband turned to each other for solace. And eventually romance. Two years later in a dramatic swap, the former best friends married each other's spouses. (No, they did not attend each other's weddings.)
Ms. Chafetz looks at the bright side. ''If I didn't have this horrible experience,'' she said, ''then I would never have the most wonderful, caring man that I've ever met.''
''But I never want to go on another cruise again in my life,'' she added. Or at least another Hail-Mary-moon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Suzy Stauffer and Tom Slook, above left, were on the verge of divorce but a cruise to Cozumel, Mexico, saved their marriage. Above right, Melissa Evans tried to salvage her 12-year marriage with a trip to Cancn, but six months later she and her husband separated. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JON GILBERT FOX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY CELINE LOUP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); COUPLE COUNSELING (89%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (87%); CRUISES (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); TRAVEL AGENTS (69%); WRITERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (90%); MALDIVES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



14 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Crowds Return to Las Vegas, but Gamble Less

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- When the last recession battered the nation, the bottom fell out in Las Vegas. One out of every six jobs vanished. Home prices dropped as much as 50 percent. Construction projects stopped in place, and tourist spending on the Las Vegas Strip, the economic driver of this city, went into an alarming slide.
These days, jobs are back, the housing market is bustling and people are moving back. The number of visitors hit a record last year. For anyone seeking evidence that the nation has survived this recession, look no farther than the sidewalks of Las Vegas Boulevard, where people were shoulder to shoulder the other day even as temperatures surged past 110 degrees.
But the recovery in Las Vegas -- much like the one lifting the nation -- is shaping up as fragile and tentative, stirring concern among economists and many of the region's biggest boosters. And it is signaling what appears to be a fundamental reordering of the economy in this closely watched part of the country. 
More than 39.7 million visitors came here in 2012, a record. But those visitors spent notably less money per trip than during the last upturn -- $1,021 per visit last year, compared with $1,318 spent by each of the 39.2 million visitors in 2007, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority -- a sobering asterisk that has led many analysts to conclude that this high-rolling city is entering a less prosperous era.
The total revenue from gambling and entertainment other than gambling was $15.3 billion in 2012, $500 million less than was spent in 2007.
''The Strip is absolutely packed, downtown is packed,'' said David G. Schwartz, the director of the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. ''People are here. But they aren't spending as much as they used to.''
A shift in the structure of the economy that began about a decade ago appears to have accelerated. Gambling is no longer king. A new influx of tourists, younger and less devoted to gambling, are likelier to open their wallets for extravagantly priced nightclubs and day clubs, which have joined concerts and musical shows, high-end restaurants, luxury shopping and some of the more exotic types of entertainment this city is renowned for offering.
From the Mandarin Oriental Hotel's 23rd-floor bar the other evening, with its desert views and $18 specialty cocktails, the new building-size digital billboards that loom over the Strip flashed out advertisements not for the slots, but for Tiesto, the D.J. playing at Hakkasan, a 75,000-square-foot nightclub where reserving a table for the night can cost $10,000 and more.
''Gaming went down more than total visitor spending, by a greater percentage,'' said Stephen P. A. Brown, the director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. ''The visitors who have come back are here for clubs and shopping. They're buying swimsuits to go to the day clubs and evening clothes to go to the nightclubs. That's the big growth.''
''I think what's going on here is we're seeing a shift away from Las Vegas as the only gaming destination in the United States to being one of many gaming destinations,'' Mr. Brown said. ''But it is holding up as a tourist destination.''
In 1984, the city's sprawling casinos accounted for 59 percent of all the money collected on the Strip. Last year, gambling made up just 36 percent of the revenue. Clark County, which includes Las Vegas, took in $9.4 billion in gambling revenue last year, up from the year before but still far short of the $10.8 billion during the peak year of 2007, according to statistics from the Center for Gaming Research.
Beyond tourism, the baseline statistics of economic growth give reasons for both hope and concern, analysts said. Home prices jumped by 15.3 percent in the Las Vegas metropolitan region this year, according to the Case-Shiller home price index, but still remain 56 percent below their peak in 2007. Jobs grew last year at a rate of 2.6 percent, compared with 1.7 nationally, but that is short of the 3.7 percent average growth rate posted during the boom years of 2001 through 2007.
And there are potential problems ahead. Many analysts here argue that the super-hot housing market amounts, yet again, to a bubble, and are girding for another collapse in prices. Some of the biggest casino owners, including MGM and Caesars Palace, are saddled with debt.
Las Vegas has a long history of reinvigorating itself, of finding new ways to bring in new consumers and to entice them to part with large sums of money. Still, the latest lift provided by the exploding nightclub business is troubling to local officials who view it as little more than a flash in the pan and worry that the city is reaping the temporary benefits of, as one worried Las Vegas executive put it, a ''club bubble.''
''I don't know where these young people get the money for that -- it's just amazing to me,'' said Chris Giunchigliani, a member of the Las Vegas County Commission. ''Clubbing is always going to be around. But at some point, it's like how we overbuilt hotel rooms. They're going to look at the market and start to scale back.''
Considering the trauma this region has endured, it is hard to minimize the psychic lift of the turnaround. For a long while, a drive around Clark County meant a blur of for-sale signs, tracts of half-built housing projects and shuttered businesses. Las Vegas became the very symbol of what went wrong with the economy, starting with the collapse of housing and construction.
But the cranes and workers are back. Construction was bustling the other day on the site of the old Sahara Hotel for a renovation of the SLS Las Vegas, a high-end hotel, on what is now the relatively barren north end of the Strip. Billboards promise new nightclubs, restaurants, luxury shopping and 1,600 rooms. Work, which had left off for a while, has picked up at the site of the Sands Hotel, which was also demolished, and some old casinos have closed to make way for smaller, less gaudy boutique hotels.
Unemployment in Las Vegas was 9.6 percent in April, down from 14.6 two years ago. In 2006, it went as low as 3.8 percent.
''Over all, if you look at any of the statistics, the economy has turned,'' said Jeremy A. Aguero, an economic analyst based in Las Vegas. ''We are now in the top six states in terms of population immigration. We are at the top of the pack in terms of new job formation.''
Yet even as Mr. Aguero spoke hopefully about the changes statistics were showing, he was careful, he said, not to suggest there had been the kind of turnaround many people were hoping for. ''Are we better?'' he continued. ''Yes. Are we good? No.''
Kevin Bagger, the director of marketing for the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, said that his agency's latest studies pinpointed the reason for concern. Before the recession, the average consumer coming to Las Vegas put aside $650 to spend on gambling. Now, he said, it is closer to $480.
''People still are cautious with their spending,'' he said. ''That said, we are thrilled to see people here.''
Mr. Brown of the business and economic research center said he did not expect to see a return to the levels of prosperity of just a few years ago. ''The kind of economy that Las Vegas saw in 2006 and 2007?'' he said. ''We probably won't see that again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, crowds filled Las Vegas Boulevard in mid-July. Far left, pedestrians are detoured because of construction. Near left, East Fremont Street. The number of visitors set a record in 2012, but people spent less per capita, signaling a new caution. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); GAMING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); TOURISM (72%); DRINKING PLACES (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (97%) NEVADA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



15 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Fed Support Lifted Wall St. To Best Month Since January

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
After a day of stalled rallies, the stock market closed out July with its best monthly gain since January.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended the month 4.95 percent higher. That was the biggest increase since January, when it rose 5.04 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average also had its best month since January. 
Markets surged in July after the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, assured investors that the central bank would not curb its stimulus program until the economy was strong enough. The Fed is buying $85 billion of bonds a month to keep down interest rates to encourage borrowing and hiring.
On Wednesday, the Fed reaffirmed its commitment to support the economy in a statement released after the end of a two-day meeting. The central bank dropped hints that it might need to maintain its stimulus, and slightly downgraded its assessment of economic growth in the United States from ''moderate'' to ''modest.''
That initially gave stocks a boost, pushing the S.& P. 500 within two points of breaching 1,700 for the first time, in afternoon trading. But the rally faded in the final hour, leaving the S.& P. flat at the end of the day.
Given the market's big gains in July, stocks may struggle to climb further in the coming months, said Philip J. Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors. ''I would not be the least bit surprised to see some modest consolidation,'' he said.
Stocks started higher on Wednesday after the government said that the economy grew at an annual rate of 1.7 percent in the second quarter as businesses spent more and the federal government cut less spending. Economists had expected growth of 1 percent, according to the data provider FactSet.
There was also an encouraging report on hiring ahead of the government's monthly jobs survey due Friday. Businesses created a healthy 200,000 jobs in July, the payroll company Automatic Data Processing said, as companies hired at the fastest pace since December.
The S.& P. 500 ended little changed at 1,685.73. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 21.05 points, or 0.1 percent, at 15,499.54. The Nasdaq composite index rose 9.90 points, or 0.3 percent, to 3,626.37.
In the bond market, investors anticipated that the Fed's slightly weaker assessment of the economy would imply a longer period of bond purchases. The price of the 10-year Treasury note rose 5/32, to 92 26/32, while its yield fell to 2.59 percent from 2.61 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (61%); TALKS & MEETINGS (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (54%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (52%)

TICKER: FII (NYSE) (54%); ADP (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (52%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



16 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Weighing Choice for Fed, Obama Offers His Party a Defense of Summers

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Facing dissent from Congressional Democrats, President Obama on Wednesday offered a strong defense of his potential choice of Lawrence H. Summers to head the Federal Reserve, though he said no final selection had been made.
For the first time, he offered up the names of three possible successors to the current Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke: Mr. Summers, a former senior economic adviser to the president; Janet L. Yellen, the Fed's vice chairwoman; and Donald L. Kohn, a former Fed vice chairman. Mr. Obama said he would probably make the decision this fall.
Speaking to members of the House Democratic caucus on Capitol Hill, Mr. Obama said in answer to a sharp question from Representative Ed Perlmutter of Colorado that he believed Mr. Summers had been maligned in the liberal news media, according to several House Democrats who attended the meeting. 
Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, said the president described Mr. Summers as a rock of stability who deserved credit for helping to steer the American economy back from the financial crisis of 2008 and the ensuing recession. Mr. Obama, Mr. Connolly said, singled out the negative coverage of Mr. Summers in The Huffington Post.
The president, Mr. Connolly said, emphasized that he was ''not even close'' to making a decision on the next Fed chairman. Mr. Obama did not address the criticism of Mr. Summers over his record on women's issues, which has dogged him throughout his career. Mr. Summers, a chief architect of financial deregulation during the Clinton administration, has questioned the benefits of the Fed's recent efforts to stimulate the economy.
Mr. Obama came to know Mr. Summers during the 2008 presidential campaign, relying on his analysis of the financial crisis, aides say. Mr. Summers served as the chief economic adviser in the White House in 2009 and 2010 and continues to talk with the president occasionally.
Mr. Obama and Ms. Yellen do not know each other well.
The president also reassured Congressional Democrats on Wednesday that he would not ''sell out'' his party's principles as the White House tries to negotiate a budget deal with Senate Republicans this fall. He traveled to Capitol Hill to hold separate meetings with House and Senate Democrats amid a rising sense of frustration with the White House, which has spent more time reaching out to Republicans than to Democrats and has angered some liberals with a dogged defense of National Security Agency telephone and Internet surveillance programs.
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Washington could break through the budget impasse and make progress on an overhaul of the tax code if the parties worked together.
''If we have both sides off doing their own thing, no,'' progress will not happen, he said on Monday. ''That's why I've been disappointed at the meetings Republicans have had with the president.''
Emerging from their meeting with the president, House Democrats said Mr. Obama emphasized his shift back to a focus on economics after spending months on immigration, national security and gun control issues. The president said those issues would become easier if middle-class Americans felt more positive about their economic prospects.
''If we remain focused and clear on middle-class bread-and-butter issues, we win the broader public argument because the other side has no solutions on this,'' one senior House Democrat quoted the president as saying.
Perhaps more than anything else, Democrats wanted Mr. Obama to remain resolute against further Republican budget cuts and threats to shut down the government unless the president's health care law is starved of financing.
Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont, pressed the president for his strategy in the face of signals by Republicans that they would demand serious concessions before they voted to raise the government's statutory borrowing limit.
''It's a simple strategy, Peter. We're not negotiating,'' the president responded, according to Mr. Welch. ''I've got nothing in my pocket. The cupboard is bare.''
Representative Steve Israel of New York, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, circulated polling in which 64 percent of voters said House Republicans were doing too little to cooperate with Mr. Obama, and more than a third of Republican voters felt that way.
Mr. Obama made an overture to Republicans on Tuesday when he proposed an overhaul of the business tax code that would lower the corporate tax rate to 28 percent from 35 percent in exchange for new financing for infrastructure, education and other Democratic priorities.
''Now we have a compromise with President Obama's proposal to lower corporate tax rates in exchange for a badly needed investment in our infrastructure,'' Mr. Israel said before the meeting with the president. ''Republicans get their priority: tax cuts for corporations. We get our priority: more jobs for the middle class.''
The president said he would entertain ''reasonable proposals'' to shift some budget cuts from discretionary programs aimed at helping the poor to long-term changes to ''entitlement programs'' more broadly targeted at older Americans. The White House chief of staff, Denis R. McDonough, went to the Capitol shortly after the president's departure to resume talks with a small group of Republican senators trying to find a path forward.
But House Democrats said they were confident that the president would not go too far. ''He was very emphatic on that,'' said Representative George Miller, Democrat of California.
Democratic leaders said they were also assured that Mr. Obama understood the gravity of his decision on the next Fed chairman. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, said there was an ''understanding whoever the president chooses will be received with great respect.''
Mr. Reid stepped up to Mr. Summers's defense.
''Larry Summers is a long-term friend of mine,'' he said. ''I like him a lot. I think he's a very competent man. But that decision is up to the president.''
The White House said Mr. Obama was defending Mr. Summers as he would any other loyal and hardworking member of his staff. The president's comments, officials said, should not be interpreted as a signal on the viability of Mr. Summers's candidacy.
''Larry Summers's service here was extremely helpful to the president as he made decisions and put forth the policies that helped reverse the tragic economic decline that this country faced in the beginning of 2009,'' the press secretary, Jay Carney, said. ''And he is certainly very grateful for Larry's service with him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with Senator Harry Reid on Wednesday. Mr. Obama met with Democrats to reassure them over a budget deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); WOMEN (76%); RECESSION (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TAX LAW (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); LIBERAL MEDIA (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); INTERNET PRIVACY (50%); TAX REFORM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (92%); GERRY CONNOLLY (78%); ED PERLMUTTER (58%); HARRY REID (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



17 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Raskin Would Be First Female Deputy at Treasury

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama nominated Sarah Bloom Raskin on Wednesday to be deputy Treasury secretary. If confirmed by the Senate, Ms. Raskin would be the highest-ranking woman to serve in that department. 
Ms. Raskin is a Federal Reserve governor and a former state banking regulator. At the Treasury, Ms. Raskin would take the position held by Neal S. Wolin since the beginning of the administration.
In a statement about Ms. Raskin, Jacob J. Lew, the Treasury secretary, said, ''Sarah has a deep understanding of banking and financial regulatory issues as well as a firm grasp of how to run large, complex organizations.'' He added, ''Sarah has demonstrated a strong commitment to protecting consumers, and she shares my conviction to do everything possible to increase job creation, accelerate economic growth and strengthen the middle class.''
A person with knowledge of the process, but without permission to speak on the record about personnel policy, said Mr. Lew had put forward Ms. Raskin's name for the job and was particularly interested in her administrative abilities. The deputy secretary takes a large role in running the sprawling department, with tasks as diverse as the minting of currency and the collecting of taxes.
Mr. Lew also appreciated her knowledge of financial markets and regulation given the enormous continuing task of putting into effect the Dodd-Frank regulatory reform law, this person said.
Ms. Raskin is lawyer who was trained at Harvard and who worked as a Maryland state regulatory official before joining the Fed in 2010. She had earlier worked on Capitol Hill and at the Promontory Financial Group, a consultancy.
Ms. Raskin's move to the Treasury would leave yet another vacancy at the central bank. The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is widely expected to leave at the end of his term in January, and Elizabeth A. Duke, a Fed governor, plans to step down in late August.
The search for a new Federal Reserve leader has raised questions about the relative dearth of women in top economic policy-making positions. Janet Yellen, the Fed vice chairwoman, is considered a contender for the top job. Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary and economic adviser to Mr. Obama, is also considered a leading candidate to succeed Mr. Bernanke.
Some Democratic members of Congress and economists have urged Mr. Obama to appoint Ms. Yellen, while several current and former White House aides are said to be pressing for Mr. Summers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); US DODD FRANK ACT (77%); WOMEN (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); COINS & COINAGE (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%)

PERSON: JACK LEW (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



18 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Playing the Stadium Name Game

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and KEVIN SCHAUL

 BODY:
Corporate names are plastered on so many sports stadiums that fans have to scratch hard to find a building that lacks one. Airlines, banks, energy providers and technology companies are among the most willing to spend millions of dollars a year to get their names in front of fans. 
The Dallas Cowboys, along with the Yankees, the Red Sox and the Cubs, were some of the most prominent teams without a naming rights partner. That changed last week when the Cowboys said that their home field would become AT&T Stadium.
Jerry Jones, the team's owner, acknowledged that the Cowboys had not set a record. The deal is believed to be worth as much as $19 million a year, short of the $20 million the Mets and the Nets receive.
The recession dampened the market for naming rights deals, and the fact that the Cowboys -- sometimes called America's Team -- could not garner more money than the Mets and the Nets suggests that the market has a way to go before reaching new heights. Congressional scrutiny of naming rights deals involving banks has hurt, too.
''Companies are certainly backing off,'' said Jim Grinstead, the publisher of Revenues from Sports Venues, an industry newsletter. ''They've watched the scrutiny the financial sector went through for naming rights and they don't want to go through the same thing.''
Still, the Cowboys' deal secures the team a healthy source of revenue, and reinforces the trend of the past 30 years -- that naming rights have become a lucrative and irreversible component of the sports industry.
Some fans have complained that Cowboys Stadium should have been left alone. The Yankees do well without a stadium naming rights deal, the argument goes. But like most things of this sort, the controversy, such as it is, will fade if the team wins a title or two.
''It's important that there be no backlash to the name,'' said Steven Korenblat, a lawyer at Bryan Cave who has worked on naming rights deals, including the one at Citi Field. ''But if the team is successful, in the long run, the name will be accepted.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cowboys, now AT&T Stadium GRAPHICS: Value of current naming rights deals: More than three-quarters of teams in Major League Baseball, the N.B.A. and the N.F.L. play in buildings with corporate naming deals. This chart contains some estimates because exact financial terms are not always disclosed.
The holdouts Major League Baseball has as many stadiums without corporate sponsorships as the N.B.A. and the N.F.L. combined. (Sources: Revenues From Sports Venues, Mediaventures
 media reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); SPORTS FANS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BASEBALL (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (72%)

COMPANY: BRYAN CAVE LLP (83%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); NEW YORK METS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); CHICAGO CUBS (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



19 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Capital, Some Companies Turn to 'Do-It-Yourself I.P.O.'s'

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
Flying back to California, empty-handed, after one last investor pitch in late 2011, Brahm Ahmadi was ready to call it quits. Despite a track record, a clear market opportunity and a loan pledge, he had not been able to attract a single investor. He called his lawyer and told her, ''We hit a wall.''
Mr. Ahmadi , the founder of People's Grocery, a nonprofit focused on food justice issues, hoped to open a commercial grocery store that would offer fresh produce in West Oakland, Calif., a so-called food desert, meaning its 25,000 residents have few healthy food options. A public-private loan fund, California FreshWorks Fund, had issued a letter of intent to lend Mr. Ahmadi two-thirds of the $3.6 million he needed to open the People's Community Market. There was just one condition -- he would first have to raise the remaining $1.2 million from investors. Mr. Ahmadi spent a year pitching to angels, social investors and private equity firms, but most were looking for double-digit returns and a clear exit strategy. 
Mr. Ahmadi's lawyer, however, suggested an alternative, something known as a direct public offering, or D.P.O., which is a way to raise money from the public without the inconvenience and expense of going public on a stock exchange. The term direct public offering does not have a precise legal definition, but it is used to describe a public securities offering similar to an initial public offering, or I.P.O., but with one big difference: There is no need to hire an investment bank. In fact, D.P.O.'s are known as ''do-it-yourself I.P.O.'s.''
Although obscure, they have been around for decades. Most famously, in 1984, two young entrepreneurs raised a first round of capital for their fledgling ice cream company in an intrastate offering. With the slogan ''Get a scoop of the action,'' Ben & Jerry's raised $750,000 from 1,800 ice-cream-loving Vermonters, allowing them to build a new plant and expand, and setting the stage for a $5.8 million initial offering the following year. Annie's Homegrown, the maker of packaged macaroni and cheese, raised $3 million in 1996 through a direct offering, advertising the offering in coupons tucked into each box. And more recently, tight credit markets and the rise of social media have fueled interest in the alternative financing system, especially among companies that have enthusiastic customers who can be converted into shareholders.
In a typical initial public offering, a Wall Street underwriter markets shares to wealthy clients and institutional investors, taking a cut of the proceeds. In a direct offering, shares are marketed directly by the issuing company, typically to customers, supporters and, these days, social media followers. The companies may advertise the offering freely and accept funds from an unlimited number of unaccredited, or nonwealthy, investors. And the companies are not subject to the quarterly reporting requirements and comprehensive registration process that come with an initial offering.
On the downside, business owners must be prepared to invest a substantial amount of time and effort in the process and to deal with hundreds or even thousands of small investors. And most direct offerings require assistance from a knowledgeable lawyer. Not surprisingly, however, cutting out the middleman and streamlining the process lowers the cost considerably. A direct offering might cost around $25,000 in legal fees, while a formal initial public offering can cost $1 million or more. That makes direct offerings an increasingly attractive option for companies that need a substantial amount of capital -- typically between $500,000 and $5 million -- but not enough to justify the cost of an initial public offering.
With traditional sources of capital still out of reach for many small businesses, and with the future of investment-style crowdfunding uncertain, direct offerings can offer a compelling alternative. In recent months, companies including pickle makers, department stores, food cooperatives and service firms have found a ready market. ''There's a huge trend of people wanting to invest locally, and people are looking for ways to make that happen,'' said Jenny Kassan, president of Cutting Edge Capital, an Oakland, Calif., consulting firm that has helped seven companies raise money this way since 2010, including People's Community Market. California has some 150 to 200 direct offerings annually, Ms. Kassan said.
Direct offerings were a hot topic at a Business Alliance for Local Living Economies conference held in Buffalo in June. ''I'm seeing a huge disconnect between the investment products available and the desires and values of investors,'' said Michelle Long, executive director for the organization, a network of 30,000 entrepreneurs and community leaders. ''D.P.O.'s represent an opportunity to put your money into something real and tangible.''
Companies typically qualify for a direct offering under one of three federal securities exemptions, each with its own parameters and considerations. The exemptions include Regulation D Rule 504, for offerings up to $1 million; Regulation A, for offerings up to $5 million (scheduled to be raised to $50 million under the JOBS Act); and the intrastate exemption, for companies that do business primarily in a single state and limit the sale of securities to investors in that state. The offerings are filed with state securities regulators and are subject only to state regulations, which can vary greatly. (In addition to these three main exemptions, there are also exemptions for nonprofits and farmer cooperatives.)
After about eight months of preparatory work, People's Community Market introduced its direct offering campaign last November, offering shares of nonvoting preferred stock with a minimum investment of $1,000. In return, investors were promised an annual 3 percent dividend plus an annual store credit equal to 1 percent of their investment. Because the grocery business is cash-intensive and Mr. Ahmadi wanted to ensure enough operating capital, the deal was structured so that accumulated dividends would be paid to investors in a lump sum after the seven-year term of the loan. Investors have the option to sell their shares back to the company with 60 days' notice.
The offering has yet to close, but People's Market has raised more than $630,000 from more than 150 mostly unaccredited investors -- and potential customers. ''We have a critical following,'' said Mr. Ahmadi, who plans to use the money to build the store, purchase inventory and open by fall 2014 (details are in the prospectus). ''Ultimately,'' he said, ''it's about leveraging social capital and turning it into financial capital.''
Direct offerings seem to be popular among food companies. In addition to People's Market, others that have conducted such offerings recently include Farm Fresh to You, a farm in California's Capay Valley, and Arroyo Food Coop in Pasadena, Calif. Real Pickles, in Greenfield, Mass., recently raised $500,000 in just two months to finance a transition to a worker-owned cooperative. Why food? One reason, Ms. Kassan said, is that ''people are passionate about food, so it's a pretty easy sell.'' But, she added, ''I believe this can work across many industries.'' Her firm, for example, Cutting Edge Capital, recently raised $150,000 through its own direct offering.
Or take GruntWorks, a business based in Portland, Ore., that acts as a concierge for homeowners in need of anything from housekeeping to plumbing to roofing services. GruntWorks solicits bids from its network of 120 or so vetted service providers and guarantees every job.
Since opening last year, GruntWorks has grown quickly. It generated $500,000 in sales its first year and expects to double that this year. To finance its expansion, Scott Fouser, the founder, has applied to Oregon's state authorities for a direct offering. By engaging his customers and turning them into shareholders, Mr. Fouser said he would be free from having to rely on search engines and other marketing.
''I think it's a terrific vehicle to engage the community and bring some profitability back to your supporters,'' he said. ''That's the real juice here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brahm Ahmadi used a direct public offering to raise money to open a grocery store in California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); ICE CREAM (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); FINANCING ROUNDS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FOOD SECURITY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (67%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: CADENCE BANCORP LLC (56%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (52%); ANNIE'S INC (51%)

TICKER: BNNY (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (52%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (51%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



20 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: City Allots $50 Million to Arts Project Tied to Bloomberg Allies

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
When the details of Michael R. Bloomberg's last capital budget as mayor were made final in June, one project stood out in particular: a $50 million appropriation for a nascent arts organization, the Culture Shed.
It is New York City's biggest cultural capital grant this year -- and an unusually generous contribution to an arts group that has yet to hire staff members, stage a performance or set a construction budget.
But the arts institution has emerged as a favored project of the Bloomberg administration and is championed by Kate D. Levin, the city's cultural affairs commissioner, who serves on the Culture Shed's board.
The board's chairman is Daniel L. Doctoroff, the former deputy mayor and chief executive of Bloomberg L.P., the mayor's financial information company. As deputy mayor for economic development Mr. Doctoroff dealt frequently with the Related Companies, whose Far West Side development in Manhattan would be the site of the cultural institution when it is completed around 2017. Related's chairman, Stephen M. Ross, is also on the Culture Shed's board. 
Plans call for a 170,000-square-foot visual and performing arts institution at the southern end of the expansive site. The Bloomberg administration promotes the building as a large-scale column-free space for exhibitions, performances and events like Fashion Week. Other cultural groups will be able to rent the space on a sliding scale, with favorable rates for nonprofits.
''It's a highly flexible facility that allows existing organizations in the city, around the country and around the world to do things that they don't currently have space to do,'' Ms. Levin said. ''It's not meant to compete with other organizations. It's meant to help them fulfill their potential.''
But officials at some cultural groups are questioning the size of the gift to an untested arts organization. And several worry that the Shed will drain philanthropic dollars from established institutions that already face fund-raising challenges. Most of this year's arts grants were in increments of thousands of dollars.
Most of the arts executives interviewed would not publicly voice their concerns for fear of jeopardizing future largess from the city or the from Mr. Bloomberg himself, a major donor to cultural groups.
But a few conceded publicly that they were taken aback by the $50 million allocation.
''I have really mixed feelings about it,'' said Georgiana Pickett, the executive director of the Baryshnikov Arts Center on West 37th Street in Manhattan (which did not apply for capital funds from the city this year). ''It's always exciting to have a new really unique project coming on the landscape, and it's good for us because of where it's located. But I do understand how that can be a number that would make a lot of people wince, when so many are struggling.''
The $50 million will probably cover only a minor portion of the Shed's cost, which has yet to be determined but is expected to run into hundreds of millions of dollars. Plans call for a bold soaring structure designed by Diller Scofidio & Renfro -- the architects responsible for Lincoln Center's renovation and the design of the High Line -- in partnership with the Rockwell Group.
But $50 million is an unusual amount for the city to award in a single year. Other arts organizations have been granted larger infusions of capital dollars over time. For example, Lincoln Center received $240 million from the city for its recently completed renovation, but the sum was disbursed over a 10-year period.
After the Culture Shed, the New York Aquarium is the city's second largest grantee for cultural capital funds this year, with $15 million budgeted for its restoration after Hurricane Sandy and $3 million for its continuing Ocean Wonders project, part of a four-year $108 million grant.
The Shed is to rise west of Penn Station, at 30th Street between 10th and 11th Avenues, as part of the redevelopment of the Hudson Yards, a stretch of the Far West Side where the mayor has long advocated new construction. For nearly four years, Mr. Bloomberg campaigned for a proposed stadium there as a home for the New York Jets and a linchpin of the city's bid to host the 2012 Olympics, but the proposal died for lack of state support.
The building is to include an open-air fourth-floor cafe and a retractable shell that extends outward, more than doubling the first-floor exhibition space. The project is currently moving through the public review process, which is expected to be completed by the end of September; the city would own the lease for the land and building, subleasing it to the arts group.
With its mix of cultural and rental space, the institution aims to be largely self-sustaining. ''We don't have state support for the arts, and philanthropy is very volatile,'' said Elizabeth Diller, one of the project's architects. ''Wouldn't it be great to think beyond the conventional philosophy?''
Yet the Shed could end up competing with other cultural institutions for donations, rental income and audiences, including a planned performing arts center at ground zero, which is expected to cost more than $300 million and for which fund-raising has not yet begun.
Maggie Boepple, president of that performing arts center, said she was not concerned, though, given the fluid nature of the shed's identity. ''It's very different,'' she said of the Shed. ''I don't spend a lot of time thinking about it because I don't have any excess brain time here.''
Ms. Levin said that the performing arts center at the former World Trade Center site was meant to fill a different sort of ''venue void.'' Besides, she said, ''New York has a huge creative appetite.''
Robert J. Benfatto, the district manager of Community Board 4, which oversees the Culture Shed site, said his board had also been assured that the multipurpose institution would not be another Javits Center, which has been faulted as a sprawling eyesore since it opened in 1986 and is undergoing a renovation.
City officials argue that the eye-catching Shed will help the Far West Side become a popular destination. ''They're hoping in the end Hudson Yards will be an economic engine for the city,'' Mr. Benfatto said.
In taking over as host of Fashion Week, the Culture Shed would supplant Lincoln Center, which has found the event a lucrative source of income over the last three years.
''We never thought that this would last forever,'' said Reynold Levy, Lincoln Center's president. ''And so if it moves, it moves. If there's a better place for it, that's terrific. We really wish it well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rendering of the Culture Shed, a proposed 26-acre arts and events space at Hudson Yards on Manhattan's Far West Side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DILLER SCOFIDIO & RENFRO/ROCKWELL GROUP) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CHARITIES (77%); MAJOR GIFTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FASHION SHOWS (71%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



21 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: New Siemens Chief Sees Weakness in China

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- The newly named chief executive of Siemens has promised to restore stability to the company that symbolizes German engineering and electronics prowess. But he also issued a warning that could bode ill for the euro zone economy: Don't count on China.
Only hours after his predecessor was toppled because of operational problems and declining profit at the German industrial giant, Joe Kaeser, a Siemens insider promoted to the top job on Wednesday, warned that China could take longer than expected to resume its rapid growth. China is a crucial market for Siemens and hundreds of other European companies, and a continued slowdown there could delay recovery of the euro zone. 
''The economic reorientation of China will take time,'' Mr. Kaeser said at a news conference at Siemens headquarters in Munich.
The comments by Mr. Kaeser, who has worked at Siemens since 1980 and previously was chief financial officer, came only hours after the Siemens supervisory board named him to replace Peter Lscher, who took the blame for the mixed financial results also announced Wednesday.
The faltering Chinese economy has become a major concern for Europe and especially Germany. While Germany's most important trading partners remain the United States and other European countries, demand from China and other developing nations has in recent years grown much faster and has compensated for weakness in the traditional markets.
''Given Germany's higher dependence on the emerging markets in recent years,'' Ralph Solveen, an economist at Commerzbank, said in a note to clients, ''much lower growth of the economy there would have a marked impact on Germany and could push the long-awaited upswing further into the future.''
The appointment of Mr. Kaeser, 56, is a return to the Siemens's tradition of naming insiders to head the company. He promised to restore the company's reputation for reliability and top-flight engineering, which has suffered recently because of a number of well-publicized fiascos.
Siemens has been late to deliver high-speed trains for the German railroad and had problems connecting a huge offshore wind generation project to the power grid. Those problems contributed to a profit warning last week, and a decline in sales and operating profit that Siemens reported on Wednesday. Those problems led to Mr. Lscher's departure.
Mr. Lscher, 55, who had previously worked in top management at the American drug maker Merck and at General Electric, was brought aboard in 2007 to lead the company, one of Germany's largest employers, during a corruption scandal.
The appointment of an outsider made sense at time when many existing Siemens managers were under a cloud, said Christian Stadler, an associate professor at Warwick Business School in Coventry, England, who has studied Siemens.
But over the long run it is difficult for an outsider lacking extensive internal connections to manage a company as diverse and far-flung as Siemens, Mr. Stadler said. Siemens products include trains, medical scanners and equipment for generating and transmitting electricity, and it operates in almost every country in the world.
''It is really hard for an outsider to get a grip on an organization as large and complex as Siemens,'' Mr. Stadler said. ''Without having the necessary networks, it's almost impossible.''
Mr. Lscher's departure was a foregone conclusion after Siemens said on Saturday that the supervisory board planned to vote on his dismissal at a meeting on Wednesday. In a statement on Wednesday, Siemens said Mr. Lscher was leaving by mutual consent.
''During the past week I came to the conclusion that the foundation of trust necessary for me to remain was lacking,'' Mr. Lscher said in a statement.
An earnings report by Siemens on Wednesday showed an improvement in net profit and new orders during the three months through June, Siemens's fiscal third quarter. But sales declined. In addition, third-quarter operating profit fell at the company's most important divisions, and Siemens said it expected profit for the full year to fall to 4 billion euros, or $5.3 billion, from 4.6 billion in 2012.
Net profit rose 43 percent to 1.1 billion euros, Siemens said, but the gain came largely from the Osram lighting unit, which the company has spun off in an initial public offering.
Among the company's four divisions, operating profit fell 31 percent to 1.3 billion euros, Siemens said, largely because of the cost of a restructuring program. Sales fell 2 percent to 19.25 billion euros, while new orders rose 19 percent, to 21.14 billion euros.
Much of the jump in orders came from a single contract to provide regional trains for the expansion and improvement of rail service in greater London, known as Thameslink.
Mr. Kaeser, who had been Siemens's chief financial officer since 2006, is seen as a steady hand who will help regain the confidence of employees weary of constant restructuring plans.
''The key to success is not the strategy,'' Mr. Kaeser said. ''The key to success is the culture of a company and its values and what it stands for.''
''Our company is certainly not in crisis, nor is it in need of major restructuring,'' Mr. Kaeser said in a statement. ''However, we've been too preoccupied with ourselves lately and have lost some of our profit momentum vis--vis our competitors.''
Mr. Kaeser told reporters that Siemens had expected the Chinese economy to recover quickly after the recent turnover in leadership but now realized there were deep structural problems in that country that need to be addressed first. China country suffers from huge overcapacity in steel, mining and cement production -- industries that Siemens services.
China must restructure those industries, which could fuel unemployment and cause civil unrest, Mr. Kaeser said. ''China clearly needs longer than we originally thought,'' he said.
Mr. Kaeser conceded that, as a close associate of Mr. Lscher throughout his predecessor's tenure, he shared responsibility for decisions that had been made.
''The management board decided the measures,'' Mr. Kaeser said. ''A lot worked out; some things didn't work out and need to be improved.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); PROFIT WARNINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (61%); TRAINS (61%); WIND ENERGY (60%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); CORRUPTION (50%); SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (92%); MERCK & CO INC (62%); COMMERZBANK AG (59%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (92%); SIE (LSE) (92%); SIE (FRA) (92%); SIE (BIT) (92%); SI (NYSE) (92%); MRK (PAR) (62%); MRK (NYSE) (62%); CZB (LSE) (59%); CBK (FRA) (59%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (59%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: PETER LOESCHER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (99%); CHINA (98%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); ENGLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



22 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: G. W. Stocking, 84; Studied Anthropologists

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
George W. Stocking Jr., a historian of science who chronicled the norms, customs and tribal beliefs of modern anthropologists, documenting a history of racial bias and ethnocentrism as well as great insights, died on July 13 in Chicago. He was 84.
His death was confirmed by a daughter, Susan Stocking Baltrushes, who said his health had been declining for several years. 
Professor Stocking, who taught history and anthropology at the University of Chicago, was best known for his studies of anthropology's pioneers, most notably Edward Burnett Tylor, the self-taught 19th-century British theorist who is often called the father of the field, and Franz Boas, the German-American migr who pioneered its practice in the United States.
Colleagues said his work helped produce a culture shift in anthropology during the 1960s and '70s that heralded a growing respect for cultural diversity throughout society. ''He was the in-house social critic,'' said Raymond D. Fogelson, a professor of anthropology at the University of Chicago.
Scholars in the field called Professor Stocking ''anthropology's anthropologist,'' he added.
Professor Stocking's first book, a 1968 collection of essays, ''Race, Culture and Evolution,'' was considered a landmark. Margaret Mead, writing in the journal American Anthropologist, called it ''beautifully and painstakingly'' illuminating.
Professor Stocking described his objective as redefining the accepted view of anthropology's ''origin story,'' one centered on Tylor as a foundational theorist. Tylor is considered to have been the first to define the word ''culture'' in the modern sense: as a set of knowledge, customs and values that all people acquire from their native environments, whether England or Polynesia.
''Race, Culture and Evolution'' profiled Tylor, Boas and others who had professionalized a field that had long been dominated by gentleman amateurs and missionaries. The book traced the ideological fault lines among 19th-century practitioners of anthropology and asserted that Tylor's standing did not bear a close reading of his work.
Though Tylor acknowledged the existence of many human cultures, and refuted early anthropologists who called dark-skinned people savages of another species, he acknowledged only one cultural ideal, believing that ''less civilized'' people should accept guidance from more civilized ones, Professor Stocking wrote.
He quoted Tylor from his canonical 1871 text, ''Primitive Culture,'' ''The civilized man is not only wiser and more capable than the savage, but also better and happier.''
Professor Stocking and others linked the widespread scientific acceptance of such ideas to the brutalities of 19th century colonialism, the annihilation of American Indians and other purported mass ''civilizing'' campaigns.
For Professor Stocking, a genuinely science-based approach to the study of human culture was embodied by Boas, a trained physicist who studied American Indian tribes in the Pacific Northwest and later debunked theories linking race with culture and intelligence. He challenged race's standing as a legitimate scientific concept, calling it ''less a biological fact than a social myth.''
Professor Stocking's essays on Boas, and a book he edited, ''The Shaping of American Anthropology, 1883-1911: A Franz Boas Reader'' (1974), were instrumental in reviving interest in Boas among a generation that had not been born when Boas died in 1942.
''Boas had an agenda: to rid anthropology of racism,'' said Paul A. Erickson, a professor of anthropology at St. Mary's University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, and an author, with Liam D. Murphy, of ''A History of Anthropological Theory,'' a standard text. Professor Stocking's work, he said, had revived interest in that agenda as well.
George Ward Stocking Jr. was born on Dec. 8, 1928, in Berlin to George and Dorothe Reichard Stocking. His father, a professor of economics at the University of Texas at Austin, was conducting research in Germany at the time. George Jr. was raised mainly in Austin. He attended Harvard, where he became active in radical political movements and joined the Communist Party. After graduating in 1949, he was a labor organizer and factory worker.
He left the party in 1956 and received his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania with a degree in American studies. He later acknowledged that with his ties to the Communist Party during those cold war years, he would never have been hired as an instructor at the University of California, Berkeley, if not for his father's prominence as an economist and adviser to presidents.
Besides his daughter Ms. Baltrushes, Professor Stocking is survived by his wife, Carol Ann Bowman; three other daughters, Rebecca and Rachel Stocking and Melissa Stocking Robinson; a son, Thomas; two sisters, Sybil Winterburn and Cynthia Peck; 10 grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
In a semi-autobiography, ''Glimpses Into My Own Black Box,'' published in 2010, Professor Stocking turned on himself the same unblinking gaze he had trained on the history of anthropology. The book, an account of his youth and family ancestry, amounts to an ethno-historical description of upper-middle-class life at the end of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th.
The seven years he spent as a Communist, Professor Stocking wrote, taught him the habit of ''self-criticism,'' which made him ''suspicious of master narratives'' and open to studying, in effect, the narratives of people who study others' narratives.
''I have always felt myself ultimately an outsider to the anthropological tribe,'' he wrote.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prof. George W. Stocking Jr. of the University of Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW GILSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (96%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



23 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: A Day's Strike Seeks to Raise Fast-Food Pay

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE; Jaclyn Trop contributed reporting.

 BODY:
From New York to several Midwestern cities, thousands of fast-food workers have been holding one-day strikes during peak mealtimes, quickly drawing national attention to their demands for much higher wages.
What began in Manhattan eight months ago first spread to Chicago and Washington and this week has hit St. Louis, Kansas City, Detroit and Flint, Mich. On Wednesday alone, workers picketed McDonald's, Taco Bell, Popeye's and Long John Silver's restaurants in those cities with an ambitious agenda: pay of $15 an hour, twice what many now earn.
These strikes, which are planned for Milwaukee on Thursday, carry the flavor of Occupy Wall Street protests and are far different from traditional unionization efforts that generally focus on a single workplace. The national campaign, underwritten with millions of dollars from the Service Employees International Union, aims to mobilize workers -- all at once -- in numerous cities at hundreds of restaurants from two dozen chains.
None of the nation's 200,000-plus fast-food restaurants are unionized. 
The strategists know they want to achieve a $15 wage, but they seem to be ad-libbing on ways to get there. Perhaps they will seek to unionize workers at dozens of restaurants, although some labor leaders scoff at that idea because the turnover rate among fast-food employees is about 75 percent a year. Or the strategists and strikers might press city councils to enact a special ''living wage'' for fast-food restaurants. Or perhaps by continually disrupting the fast-food marketplace from counter to counter across the country, they can get McDonald's, KFC and others to raise wages to end the ruckus. The protests' organizers acknowledge that yet another goal is to push Congress to raise the federal minimum wage and pressure state legislatures to raise the state minimums.
''These companies aren't magically going to make our lives better,'' said Terrance Wise, who earns $9.30 an hour after working for eight years at a Burger King in Kansas City, plus $7.40 an hour at his second job at Pizza Hut. ''We can sit back and stay silent and continue to live in poverty or, on the other hand, we can step out and say something and let it be known that we need help.''
In explaining why her union is pouring dozens of organizers and significant sums into the effort, Mary Kay Henry, the S.E.I.U. president, said, ''Our union's members think that economic inequality is the No. 1 problem our nation needs to solve. We think it's important to back low-wage workers who are willing to stand up and have the courage to strike to make the case that the economy is creating jobs that people can't support their families on.''
The protests in Detroit on Wednesday had a particularly poignant backdrop, given that the city has declared bankruptcy. Dozens of workers, joined by members of various unions and community groups, picketed in front of McDonald's and Taco Bell, shouting chants like, ''Hey, hey, ho, ho, $7.40 has got to go'' -- the amount per hour many of them are paid.
Restaurant industry officials say the strikers' demand for $15 an hour is ludicrous because it amounts to more than twice the federal minimum wage. (The median pay for fast-food workers nationwide is $9.05 an hour.) Industry officials say a $15 wage might drive many restaurants out of business and cause restaurant owners to hire fewer workers and replace some with automation -- perhaps by using more computerized gadgets where customers punch in the orders themselves.
Scott DeFife, executive vice president of the National Restaurant Association, said the one-day walkouts were not really strikes, but rather public-relations-minded protests that have caused very few restaurants to close.
''It is an effort to demonize the entire industry in order to make some organizing and political points,'' he said, adding that only a small percentage of restaurant jobs pay the minimum wage. He said most of those positions were held by workers younger than 25.
Organizers of the protests -- called Fast Food Forward in New York and Fight for 15 in Chicago -- say that it seems to be catching fire. Some fast-food workers in St. Louis, inspired by the strikes in New York and Chicago, held their own one-day walkout.
''Things are going phenomenally. Workers all over the country are taking action in an industry where there had literally been no action or traction a year ago,'' said Jonathan Westin, executive director of New York Communities for Change, which played a crucial role organizing the first fast-food strike in New York last November.
Explaining the focus on fast-food workers, Mr. Westin added, ''In a lot of low-income neighborhoods, probably the largest employer is the fast-food industry, and we're not going to reduce the level of poverty in those neighborhoods unless we try to get that industry to provide jobs that pay a living wage.''
Late Wednesday morning, 100 people protested in front of a Taco Bell on Eight Mile Road in Detroit, with organizers saying that 11 of the restaurant's employees were on strike.
One Taco Bell worker, Sharise Stitt, 27, joined the strike, saying the $8.09 she earns after five years there was insufficient to support her family.
She was evicted from her Detroit apartment and moved her family to her sister's house in Taylor, Mich. That means a 45-minute commute each way and a gas bill of $50 every four days. After taxes, she has about $900 a month to feed and clothe her three children. They receive food stamps.
''Sometimes my phone will go out because that isn't a priority,'' she said. ''Giving my kids a roof over their heads is.''
She would love a $15 minimum wage. ''I wouldn't have to worry about school supplies or things like that,'' she added.
Nelson Lichtenstein, a labor historian at the University of California, Santa Barbara, said he doubted the fast-food strikes would result in unionization. While unions might be excited by the current burst of enthusiasm, he said unions had learned to be cautious, adding, ''You pour in a lot of resources, saying, 'Yes it does work,' and a year later it disintegrates.''
Nonetheless, he said the periodic chaos the one-day walkouts cause could influence the industry to pay more and could nudge lawmakers to raise the minimum wage (which Republicans in Washington strongly oppose).
Dorian T. Warren, who teaches a course on labor organizing at Columbia University, noted that most of the urban workers taking part in the single-day strikes were black and Hispanic, demographic groups that often lean in favor of unions.
''I think a vast majority would vote for unionization,'' he said. ''Many are earning so little they have nothing to lose.''
''Will they get $15 an hour?'' he added. ''I don't know. If they get to $10 or $12, that'd be huge.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of higher wages demonstrated on Wednesday outside a McDonald's in Detroit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (74%); CITIES (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (57%); LONG JOHN SILVER'S INC (57%); PIZZA HUT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



24 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; TOOL KIT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Virtual Currency Gains Ground in Actual World

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
Depending on whom you ask, bitcoins are a goofy geek invention with as much long-term value as Monopoly money -- or a technology development that could transform currency the way e-mail and texting have transformed correspondence.
A type of digital cash, bitcoins were invented in 2009 and can be sent directly to anyone, anywhere in the world. You don't have to go through a financial institution, which means no fees and no one tracking your spending habits. With a current market capitalization of $1 billion, bitcoins are beginning to be more widely accepted. You can use them to pay for a pizza or make speculative bets that could end up financing your child's college education.
But bitcoins, and other digital currencies, have also come under scrutiny. Liberty Reserve, an online payment system, was shuttered in the spring by New York authorities, who said the company used its digital currency, known as LRs, to launder up to $6 billion. And law enforcement officials have voiced concerns that bitcoins could also abet illegal transactions. Bart Chilton, a commissioner on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, suggested that bitcoins might be ripe for regulation.
Moreover, some critics say the bitcoin infrastructure is insecure, as hackable as any other computer-based system. 
''The way the basic bitcoin system works is both incredibly solid and incredibly clever from a technical standpoint,'' said Nicholas Weaver, senior staff researcher at the International Computer Science Institute in Berkeley, which studies and advances a range of emerging technologies. ''The system's security is fragile, however, and the economic model behind bitcoin is, well, crazy stupid.''
Nonetheless, paying with bitcoins can be a weirdly fun way to make transactions. Here is a primer on how to do it.
Like gold, bitcoins, which are both a currency and a commodity, are in limited supply (there is a cap of 21 million total) and have to be ''mined'' before they are put in circulation. Anyone can mine for bitcoins by downloading software, known as the bitcoin client, which algorithmically crunches a bunch of numbers to legitimize or authenticate a sequence or ''block'' of past bitcoin transactions. So bitcoins are basically minted as a reward for contributing to the smooth operation of the system. Validating a block yields 25 bitcoins, which are currently worth $2,675.
The fluctuating price of bitcoins, also like gold, is a function of supply and demand, as well as psychology. ''Bitcoins have value because people say they have value,'' said Andrew White, a former I.T. manager for the Wikipedia Foundation and now a digital currency entrepreneur in San Francisco.
Unlike fiat currencies like the United States dollar and virtual currencies like Facebook credits and the one invented by Liberty Reserve, bitcoins are not created or controlled by a central authority. But with the blistering rate of bitcoin transactions these days, you need a pricey and complex computer rig to effectively run the bitcoin client and procure some bitcoin bounty. An easier way to get bitcoins is to just find someone willing to sell them to you.
Julian Tosh, an I.T. systems administrator in Las Vegas, for example, lets friends and family buy items on his Amazon wish list and pays them back in bitcoins. ''This works well as long as I need stuff,'' said Mr. Tosh, who also presides over a Wednesday ''Bitcoin Lunch Mob'' in Las Vegas, which gathers to discuss and trade bitcoins.
But maybe you don't personally know any bitcoin enthusiasts like Mr. Tosh or the Winklevoss twins, Cameron and Tyler, who own around $11 million worth and have filed papers with the Securities and Exchange Commission to form a bitcoin investment trust. If so, you might try localbitcoins.com, which lists people in your area who are willing to exchange bitcoins for cold hard cash. The market price Tuesday afternoon was $107 for a bitcoin. Be sure to check out sellers' profiles and reviews to make sure they are reputable. And, of course, it's always a good idea to meet in a public place to make the transaction.
Bitcoins can be easily transferred and stored using a digital wallet app on your Android mobile device. Popular wallet apps include BitcoinSpinner and Bitcoin Wallet. There are no iOS bitcoin wallet apps and Apple did not respond to e-mails seeking an explanation. But Blockchain has an online wallet service that you can access using any Internet-connected desktop, laptop, tablet or smartphone.
You can also get bitcoins through Mt.Gox, the largest bitcoin exchange and where the currency is traded as a commodity. But it's a cumbersome and lengthy process, requiring wire transfers and scanning identity documents. The company, which is based in Japan, also charges a 0.6 percent fee for all transactions.
Keep in mind that the United States Department of Homeland Security in May seized Mt.Gox's United States accounts, saying it misrepresented the full extent of its financial operations. The company did not respond to requests for comment but continues to function as before the seizure.
Another option is Coinbase, a bitcoin transaction platform, which recently announced a $5 million infusion of venture capital. While it's still a nascent venture (not even a year old), the service hasn't had any major hiccups yet and is relatively simple to use. You just enter your bank account and routing number, how many bitcoins you want and click ''buy.'' You can also send bitcoins to others through your Coinbase account. Just know you'll be charged a 1 percent transaction fee.
Once you have your bitcoins, the fun part is spending them. Bitcoin. travel, BitcoinsInVegas.com, Spendbitcoins.com and Reddit have directories of businesses that accept bitcoins as payment. And Bitpremier.com lists high-priced luxury items (cars, jets, yachts, etc.) you can buy with bitcoins.
To make a purchase, all you have to do is type the receiver's key code or scan their QR code into your bitcoin wallet and you're done. Like cash transactions, you can't cancel payment later, so be sure it's what you want before you click ''send.''
Brewster Kahle, a founder of the Internet Archive in San Francisco, said he routinely used bitcoins to pay for lunch at a local sushi restaurant. He's interested in the technology and appreciates the libertarian aspect of it. ''Bitcoin used to be just in the land of computer geeks, but not anymore,'' he said.
More businesses are accepting bitcoins lately thanks to Bitpay, which supplies software for processing bitcoin payments. The merchant pays a 0.99 percent fee per transaction versus the 2 to 4 percent fees charged by credit card companies. Bitpay will also immediately convert bitcoins to dollars if the merchant desires.
''Bitcoin users are pretty enthusiastic, so you get instant loyal customers,'' said Adam Penn, owner of Veggie Galaxy, a restaurant in Cambridge, Mass., which began accepting bitcoins through Bitpay in May. ''So far, it's been a no-risk revenue generator.''
Also last month, Bitpay announced a partnership with the mobile gift card app Gyft, which will allow people to use bitcoins to purchase gift cards from hundreds of retailers including Brookstone, Lowe's, Gap, Sephora, GameStop, American Eagle, Nike, Marriott, Burger King and Fandango.
''It's a huge development,'' said Mr. Tosh in Las Vegas, who predicts Gyft's embrace of bitcoins will lead to widespread use of the alternative currency. ''Pandora's box has been smashed.''
Or maybe not. The legal trouble at Mt.Gox sent a shiver through the market as did S.E.C. charges last week that the founder and operator of the lesser-known Bitcoin Savings and Trust in McKinney, Tex., was running a bitcoin Ponzi scheme.
Still, bitcoin advocates point out that, despite some bad actors, the actual system has not had a major security breach. Nevertheless, even the most ardent bitcoin boosters urge caution. Bitcoins have appreciated more than 700 percent since this time last year -- an increase some have compared to a bubble bound to burst.
''It's supervolatile, so I'd tell people to go slow,'' said Peter Vessenes, chairman and executive director of the Bitcoin Foundation, a nonprofit organization that promotes the currency. ''Never hold more bitcoins than you're prepared to lose.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); COINS & COINAGE (77%); FUTURES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); SECURE ONLINE TRANSACTIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); TEXT MESSAGING (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); PERSONAL FINANCE (54%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%); WIKIMEDIA FOUNDATION INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



25 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Deliberations Start in Goldman Trader's Case

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
The federal government's lawsuit against Fabrice Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs trader accused of misleading investors in a mortgage security six years ago, went to a jury Wednesday morning, setting up the end to one of the most prominent cases to arise from the financial crisis. 
After nearly an hour and a half of legal instructions, the presiding judge, Katherine B. Forrest of Federal District Court in Lower Manhattan, formally allowed the nine-member jury to begin deliberations.
It is now up to the jurors, including a former stockbroker, a minister and a graphic designer, to decide whether Mr. Tourre committed fraud as he set up a complex investment tied to mortgages. The Securities and Exchange Commission accused Mr. Tourre of misleading investors about the role of a client, the hedge fund Paulson & Company, which wanted to bet against the security.
He faces seven counts of fraud. Because it is a civil suit, the S.E.C. need only have convinced jurors with a preponderance of evidence, rather than beyond a reasonable doubt, the standard in a criminal trial.
The jurors must agree unanimously on each count. The jury did not reach a verdict on Wednesday and will continue deliberations on Thursday.
While the jury was sequestered, lawyers for both the S.E.C. and the defense talked among themselves, occasionally trying to one up each other on jokes that included financial jargon from the trial. ''I have a virtual office but I now call it my synthetic office,'' one lawyer said, referring to a synthetic collateralized debt obligation, the security Mr. Tourre is accused of deceiving investors on.
Mr. Tourre, 34, kept to himself for the most part, reading The New York Times and The Economist.
The jurors listened to more than two weeks of sometimes combative testimony, including from Mr. Tourre. Much of the trial was laden with complex jargon that both the S.E.C. and the defense team acknowledged was likely to make jurors' eyes glaze over. Several jurors appeared to doze off during the more technically dense parts of the trial.
If the jury finds Mr. Tourre liable, the judge and the S.E.C. will decide what penalties are appropriate. Judge Forrest would have the final say on financial penalties, from the forfeiture of any profits made from the investment to fines.
A forfeiture order would be relatively subjective, depending on the definition of profits. Goldman earned fees for its work in constructing the mortgage security but lost money on its own investment position. Fines, however, could range from $5,000 to about $130,000 for each violation.
Fines could be levied for only six of the seven counts, because one charge is tied to Goldman, which has already settled charges by paying $550 million.
Goldman, which is already paying the bill for Mr. Tourre's legal fees, is permitted to pay for any disgorgement of profits ordered by the court but is not permitted to pay fines, legal specialists say.
If Mr. Tourre is found liable, he also faces a potential ban from the securities industry.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fabrice Tourre, center, and his lawyers at Federal District Court in Manhattan on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); VERDICTS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); JUDGES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); ASSET FORFEITURE (58%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



26 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: Sadly, Too Big to Fail Is Not Over

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: The Dodd-Frank law and other financial reforms represent regulatory progress but failed to go far enough in reining in the biggest banks, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
Writing in Politico earlier this week, former Senator Chris Dodd and former Representative Barney Frank contend that the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation of 2010 ends forever the ability of the United States government to provide support to failing financial companies. "The Dodd-Frank Act is clear: Not only is there no legal authority to use public money to keep a failing entity in business, the law forbids it," they write. 
Mr. Dodd and Mr. Frank worked long and hard on financial reform in 2009-10, and there is much in their bill that is helpful, which is why regulators need to pick up the pace on completing and putting in place genuinely strong rules. But on the bigger picture - whether too-big-to-fail financial institutions still benefit from implicit government subsidies and a high probability of explicit bailouts - I respectfully disagree with them. I'm not alone - in response to recent questioning from Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, confirmed that credit markets still believed the government stands behind big banks.
There are three issues: the powers of the Federal Reserve, the mandate of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the vulnerability of taxpayers when one or more large complex financial institutions fail. We have at least five such companies in the United States, all of which are intensely cross-border in their operations (in order of size, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley).
On the mechanics of what the Fed is allowed to do, Mr. Dodd and Mr. Frank are of course correct that their legislation changed the powers of the Federal Reserve. The precise legal authority that allowed a loan of $85 billion to American International Group in September 2008 no longer exists.

But as Marc Jarsulic and I explained in this space recently, the Federal Reserve still has plenty of other powers that can be invoked to provide support to failing financial companies. For example, the Taunus Corporation (a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank) and perhaps others were saved in 2008 by lending programs that were made available to a broader group of companies or that covered an entire class of assets. Such programs are still legal. 
Lending by the Fed to one specific company is more difficult to justify under current legislation. But the biggest and most leveraged financial companies in the United States today are all now bank-holding companies, with access to the discount window at the Fed, via their commercial banking subsidiaries.
Lending by the Fed to an insolvent company is also harder to justify - or, under some interpretations, not allowed. But you may have noticed that Wall Street executives and their friends now like to say, "No one was insolvent; there were just some liquidity problems." In truth, major companies were insolvent (with their assets worth less than their liabilities), but if you thought the various forms of Federal Reserve support to the economy would work (supported by expansive fiscal policy and other actions), then the price of their assets could recover.
The same was true for many homeowners. They were under water on their mortgages in 2008, but with house prices rising now, were they insolvent or merely illiquid?
In any crisis, the people in power decide what to call a liquidity crisis and where to draw the line on helping those who are "insolvent" - and this remains true under Dodd-Frank. Bank executives do better than ordinary folks when those kinds of determinations are made.
About the mandate of the Federal Reserve, Mr. Dodd and Mr. Frank stress that a failing institution should be taken over by the F.D.I.C. "to begin the process of liquidating the institution." Again, they are correct that this would be likely to involve dismissing the board and perhaps some executives. There is "liquidation" in a legal sense; the company would no longer exist.
But the current plans of the F.D.I.C. do not call for the liquidation of the business as a going concern, although there are encouraging indications that failing institutions would be restructured and downsized. In fact, its approach calls for recapitalizing the holding company (by converting debt to equity) and using that new capital to support existing subsidiaries. The holding company's legal identity would change and holders of bonds issued by that entity would incur losses, but existing contracts with creditors to the operating subsidiaries would remain in place - without any losses for those lenders. 
The rationale is to avoid disruption in financial markets. But the result, as one leading Wall Street lawyer put it recently, is to create an extra level of protection for anyone entering into a swap agreement (or other transaction involving credit, implicitly or explicitly) with an operating subsidiary. 
To be fair, the F.D.I.C.'s James Wigand said in recent Congressional testimony: 
However, creditors at the subsidiary level should not assume that they avoid risk of loss. For example, if the losses at the financial company are so large that the holding company's shareholders and creditors cannot absorb them, then the subsidiaries with the greatest losses will have to be placed into resolution, exposing those subsidiary creditors to loss.
I fully support the work of the F.D.I.C in this area and it was a good idea to put it in charge of resolution, but this is really a difficult task. (I'm a member of the F.D.I.C.'s Systemic Resolution Advisory Committee, an unpaid position. I am not responsible for the F.D.I.C.'s plans and I write here in a purely personal capacity.)
My expectation is that, in this context, crucial employees would be kept on - just as they were at A.I.G. in fall 2008. And yes, if it was thought necessary for the well-functioning of the firm, they would get to keep their bonuses - just as people at A.I.G. Financial Products were allowed to do, even though their part of the company was responsible for the huge losses. 
If you are a creditor, does lending to JPMorgan Chase or Goldman Sachs - in a derivative transaction with an operating subsidiary - look more or less risky with the F.D.I.C. arrangement in place? It looks less risky, hence there is a bigger pricing advantage for the megabanks (you are willing to lend to them at a cheaper rate because you are less likely to lose your money).
In principle, the F.D.I.C., Fed and Treasury have the power to force banks to have realistic self-insurance against losses by requiring a much higher level of equity finance, and to put in place living wills that make it easier to liquidate them under regular bankruptcy proceedings (without any government involvement). They and other regulators can also limit the risks these banks can take, including the Volcker Rule. Top officials could also force the biggest companies to become smaller, if they thought this reduced systemic risk in a significant way. In practice, none of this is really working three years after the passage of Dodd-Frank. 
I share the view of Richard Fisher of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, who, speaking of too-big-to-fail institutions, said he did not "have much faith in the living will process to make any material difference in risks and behaviors - a bank would run out of liquidity (not capital) due to reputational risk quicker than management would work with regulators to execute a living will blueprint." Mr. Fisher's testimony to the House Financial Services Committee in June candidly suggested Dodd-Frank isn't getting the job done. And Mr. Volcker recently said the foot-dragging on implementing his rule was disastrous. 
More broadly, I would suggest it's all pretty scary. Dodd-Frank has some tools that help reduce the problem of too big to fail, but none of this will help unless the supporting regulations are fully in place. 
Mr. Dodd and Mr. Frank stress that it is now much harder for taxpayer or "public money" to be used "to keep a highly indebted institution alive." Perhaps, but the F.D.I.C. can guarantee the debt of distressed companies pretty much as it did in fall 2008. (For the details, again see my post with Mr. Jarsulic.) To be clear, the F.D.I.C. can guarantee the debt of a company that has been put into receivership, but it can no longer guarantee the debt of a company that remains open; that would require an act of Congress.
Additionally, the big potential future losses to taxpayers and to residents of the United States more broadly are from the contraction of credit and crash in the real economy when big banks get into trouble. There is nothing in the legislation that prevents the boom-bust of 2003-7 or mass unemployment on the scale of what happened in 2008 - which has persisted to today.
Responsible policy makers know this. When presented with the alternative of unsavory bailout or unprecedented economic collapse, which would you choose? And what would you like your Congress to do, at the spur of that moment?
George W. Bush and Henry Paulson, his Treasury secretary, were willing to open the public pocket to all of Wall Street, because they feared the alternative. What would any other president and his or her team decide to do? 
Senator Dodd and Representative Frank did a great service with legislation that has the potential to become the basis for meaningful financial reform.
Unfortunately, their current message will encourage regulators to relax and Wall Street lobbyists to break out the Champagne. 
As Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew said recently, we should put all the provisions of the Dodd-Frank law into effect by the end of this year. And "if we get to the end of this year and we cannot, with an honest, straight face, say that we have ended too big to fail, we are going to have to look at other options," he said. 
As Mr. Lew stressed, "It's unacceptable to be in a place where too big to fail has not been ended." Sadly, that is where we are today.

        
Choosing the Next Head of the Federal Reserve
        
The Treasury's Mistaken View on Too Big to Fail
        
Filling a Fed Vacuum in Bank Supervision
        
Bernanke's Credibility on 'Too Big to Fail'
        
Equipping the Fed for a Future Crisis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (92%); US DODD FRANK ACT (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (86%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); WRITERS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd, Christopher J; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Federal Reserve System; Frank, Barney; Lew, Jacob J; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Today's Economist

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BK (NYSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (93%); JACK LEW (88%); BARNEY FRANK (79%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%) Dodd, Christopher J; Frank, Barney; Lew, Jacob J

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



27 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Google's Science Fellows Challenge the Company's Fund-Raising for Senator Inhofe

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Scientists who were once invited to Google to discussion climate science communication now communicate their anger about the company&#8217;s fund-raiser for Senator James Inhofe. 

 BODY:
Ten years ago this week, Senator James M. Inhofe, the Republican from Oklahoma, used a two-hour floor speech to launch his campaign on the credibility of climate science pointing to dangers from the unabated release of greenhouse gases. There was a a touch of lawyerly nuance in that speech - with Inhofe specifying he was asserting that "catastrophic" man-made global warming was a hoax.
It's one thing to have a political debate about the level of danger posed by the building greenhouse effect. "How much is too much" is in fact a societal choice more than a question answerable by science. But it's another to spend a decade, as Inhofe has since, making ever more caricatured attacks on climate scientists in the name of preserving the country's dependence on fossil fuels.
By 2010, digging through the cache of climate scientists' e-mail exchanges revealed in the incident that became best known as Climategate, Inhofe was using Senate committee time and resources to probe the actions of 17 climate scientists who Inhofe said should be investigated as potential criminals.* 
That's why so many scientists and others (me included) were irked last month to learn that Google, a company that in recent years gained a green reputation by investing aggressively in renewable energy projects, was hosting a July 11 fund-raising luncheon for Inhofe.
Big companies have many, and sometimes conflicting, interests, as a spokesperson for Google tried to explain to the environmental blogger Brian Merchant this way: "[W]hile we disagree on climate change policy, we share an interest with Senator Inhofe in the employees and data center we have in Oklahoma."
Now the Web giant is facing fresh criticism, this time in an open letter from 17 scientists and policy researchers who were invited to Google's Silicon Valley headquarters back in 2011 to explore ways to improve climate science communication (I was also invited and gave a talk).
Below you can read an essay by the four lead authors of the letter, which was sent yesterday to Google's executive leadership. The letter is posted here and at Climate Science Watch:
Google's Troubling Alliance with Senator James Inhofe
The company betrays core principles and risks its own business success
Matthew Nisbet, Alan Townsend, Jonathan Koomey, and Julia Cole
Climate change is a grave moral challenge that cannot be addressed without smart government policy, corporate innovation, and public participation. Leaders and citizens must collaborate in ways that transcend differences, and call out those who impede progress by denying the reality of the problem.
Recently, Google Inc. failed in this duty by hosting a July 11, 2013 fund-raiser in support of Oklahoma Senator James Inhofe's re-election campaign. The political gridlock that has derailed efforts to address climate change in the US owes much to Senator Inhofe. His denial of the problem and fact-free assaults on the scientific community are designed to promote political dysfunction, to destroy the reputation of scientists, and to undermine our ability to find common ground.
Such strategies conflict with Google's successful evidence-based, problem-solving culture, and are arguably contrary to its corporate philosophy of "Don't Be Evil."
In 2011, as participants in Google's science communication fellows program, we were inspired by the company's unique culture and investment in climate change education. We left the Mountain View headquarters eager to apply the new tools we learned to our public outreach activities.
But Google's recent support for Senator Inhofe forces us to seriously question the company's commitment to climate change leadership. This week, joined by 13 other distinguished fellows, we released an open letter to Google calling on the company to reconsider its fund-raising efforts on behalf of Senator Inhofe's re-election.
Not only does supporting Senator Inhofe go against Google's core principles, the company also risks its reputation. Increasingly, consumers expect their most admired companies to "walk the walk" on climate issues. According to a recent survey, about a quarter of Americans say that they have used their purchasing power to either reward or punish companies for their climate change track record. An equivalent number say they have discussed what they see as a company's irresponsible environmental behavior with friends or family.
Google's support for Senator Inhofe has already angered consumers and looks especially bad in comparison to the recent actions of a major competitor. In 2009, Apple quit the U.S. Chamber of Commerce over the group's opposition to limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. "We would prefer that the Chamber take a more progressive stance on this critical issue and play a constructive role in addressing the climate crisis," the company wrote in a letter announcing its resignation.
Earlier this year, Apple hired former Environmental Protection Administrator Lisa Jackson to expand the company's environmental and energy initiatives. As Apple CEO Tim Cook declared in a statement, Jackson would make Apple the "top environmental leader in the tech sector," using its influence to "push electric utilities and governments to provide the clean energy that both Apple and America need right now."
Apart from the possible damage to its reputation, Google's support for Senator Inhofe matters in other ways as well. To power its operations, Google has invested heavily in energy efficiency strategies and renewable energy projects. These investments are predicated on the idea that climate change creates business risks, and among the best actions for managing those risks is to reduce emissions.
Yet absent the proposed climate policies that Senator Inhofe and his allies have so effectively blocked, these technologies will remain more costly than they otherwise would be, limiting Google's return on investment. Political paralysis also muddles the ability of Google and other companies to engage in long-term planning, creating further financial risk.
The lack of international cooperation on meaningful actions to address climate change poses an even greater threat to global companies like Google, since their profits are closely tied to the performance of the world economy. Each year we delay acting, the more vulnerable our economies become to potentially catastrophic climate change impacts and the more costly it becomes to transform our global energy system.
Large companies must - and should - work with political leaders on both sides of the aisle. Moreover, vigorous debate over policy options and technological trade-offs will be needed if we are going to identify effective paths forward and build broad support for action.
But when political leaders like Senator Inhofe deny the problem of climate change, they do not make the problem disappear-instead, they compound it by blocking constructive solutions. And when corporations like Google support these same political leaders, they endanger our ability to manage the climate crisis before it exacts even greater costs.
In the face of overwhelming evidence and the growing number of groups working together to address the problem, the politics of climate change are shifting. For both economic and moral reasons, Google needs to stand on the right side of history and stop supporting those who are best known for attacking scientists, denying reality and obstructing government action.
Responsibility, however, also rests with scientists, civil society leaders, and the public. Indeed, this may be the enduring lesson of Google's mistake. By speaking out when our admired companies and political leaders let us down, we are the only ones who can create the conditions where the morally right thing to do is also good for politics and business.
Matthew Nisbet is Associate Professor of Communication at American University, Washington D.C.; Alan Townsend is Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Colorado-Boulder; Jonathan Koomey is Research Fellow at the Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance, Stanford University; and Julia Cole is Professor of Geosciences and Atmospheric Sciences at The University of Arizona.
Updated at asterisk above, 1:43 p.m. | 
Thanks, A.L. Hern, for catching the "whom / who" grammar glitch that my grandmother was always eager to point out.

        
Jim Hansen Presses the Climate Case for Nuclear Energy
        
More Signs of 'Peak Us' in New Study of 'Peak Oil Demand'
        
Kerry Proposes U.S.-India Push on Carbon and Climate
        
Seeking More Presidential Action, Less Rhetoric, on Warming
        
Energy Agency Makes Case for Climate-Wise Energy Steps

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (95%); CLIMATE CHANGE (92%); POLITICS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); WRITERS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Alternative and Renewable Energy; Apple Inc; Computers and the Internet; Cook, Timothy D; Global Warming; Google Inc; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Inhofe, James M; Mountain View (Calif); Oklahoma; Politics and Government; Silicon Valley (Calif); Speeches and Statements; Apple Inc|AAPL|NASDAQ; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Climate Change; politics

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc; Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%) Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%)

PERSON: JIM INHOFE (95%); TIM COOK (74%) Cook, Timothy D; Inhofe, James M

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) OKLAHOMA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) Mountain View (Calif); Oklahoma; Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



28 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: More on Consumer Spending and Growth

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Classic economics textbooks do not provide the support Jared Bernstein is looking for in his argument for Keynesian stimulus, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
Chicago Bears fans like myself eagerly anticipate the beginning of the new Bears season, less than 10 days from now. If you visit any part of Chicago on a Sunday during the season, you readily hear shouts of "the Bears are No. 1!" and "the Packers stink!," or perhaps the same sentiment vividly expressed in more colorful language (the Packers are our archrivals from north of the state line).
When you make your visit, I recommend that you recognize a pep rally for what it is. Don't take those statements literally, and don't play the eccentric fool and try to educate us on the truth about the results of Chicago Bears' games. We are aware that the Bears haven't won the Super Bowl in almost 30 years. We understand that the Packers' quarterback and his predecessor are among the greatest of all time. 
Only an eccentric fool concludes from the pep rally chants that the sports fans are delusional or misinformed enough to actually believe what they're saying.
Despite practicing the Bears-fan ritual for my entire life, I have proven woefully unable to bring that same spirit to economic analysis. I am 100 percent guilty of playing the eccentric fool at the pep rally led by Jared Bernstein by thinking that he might be using the language of scholarship, and that his words ought to be taken literally.
Take the words from Mr. Bernstein's latest chant, "it's standard issue in all the economics textbooks Professor Mulligan cites - that Keynesian stimulus can lead to faster growth than would otherwise occur." Only an eccentric fool would pay close attention to these words and think that they mean that each of the four economic growth books I cited - Barro/Sala-i-Martin, Acemoglu, Aghion/Howitt, and Weil - actually include an extensive treatment of Keynesian stimulus alongside the other growth theories. 
Only an eccentric fool would be startled to learn that in fact Barro and Sala-i-Martin find that they should cover the topic of economic growth without even mentioning Keynesian stimulus. Don't be startled that the three other books don't include Keynesian stimulus either, let alone treat Keynesian stimulus as "standard issue." 
The reality is that economic growth theory treats Keynesian stimulus about the same as it treats U.F.O.'s: they are not considered to be an important part of what creates sustained growth for nations (see also my previous list of growth policies from Aghion and Howitt's economic growth book, and the notable absence of any kind of policy to promote short run consumption).
Only the eccentric fool would also be frustrated by Bernstein's use of "demand-constrained" and "slack" economy chants as an excuse to ignore what has been learned from growth economics. I agree with him that our economy still has a high ratio of unemployed to job vacancies. But lots of countries have experienced high unemployment over the years, and have had too many of their citizens looking desperately but unsuccessfully for good jobs. Those countries have been studied by growth economists, too. (I cited one of the famous empirical studies in my earlier post; see also the empirical studies cited in the aforementioned textbooks, and the chapters in my book that deal with the properties of economies with high ratios of unemployment to vacancies.) Nonetheless, those economists conclude that sustained growth most likely comes from some kind of investment, and not from redistribution toward segments of society with a low propensity to save and invest.
What Mr. Bernstein seems to mean is that he thinks that temporary stimulus is the right policy for now, but "temporary stimulus" sounds better when pronounced as "economic growth policy." Since we're at a pep rally, it doesn't matter that "economic growth" already has another meaning among scholars.
So let's not dwell on the meaning of words, theories and empirical results, and instead just proclaim our words in harmony and with enthusiasm: "Temporary stimulus is economic growth!" "Stimulus is No. 1!"

        
Keynes and Keynesianism
        
Hidden Costs of the Minimum Wage
        
Labs for Testing Fiscal Policy Positions
        
Consumer Spending and Economic Growth
        
The Complex Story of Race and Upward Mobility

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEXTBOOKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); WRITERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SPORTS FANS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); ATHLETES (67%) Bernstein, Jared; Economics (Theory and Philosophy); United States Economy; The Growth Debate; Today's Economist

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (89%) Bernstein, Jared

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



29 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Sun Capital Court Ruling Threatens Structure of Private Equity

BYLINE: VICTOR FLEISCHER


HIGHLIGHT: An appeals court ruling last week will make it harder for private equity funds to walk away from the unfunded pension liabilities of a portfolio company that goes bankrupt. But the case may have implications for tax law. 

 BODY:
Think twice before you bet against the widows and orphans.
Last week, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit issued a ruling that will make it harder for private equity funds to walk away from the unfunded pension liabilities of companies they have bought if the company goes bankrupt.
Specifically, the court ruled that one of Sun Capital's private equity funds was "not merely a 'passive' investor" but actively involved in the operations of Scott Brass Inc., a portfolio company that went bankrupt in 2008. The case was brought by the New England Teamsters and Trucking Industry Pension Fund.
The case is undoubtedly important for private equity deals. Firms must consider the greater risk of unfunded pension liability when valuing targets. Portfolio companies may be grouped together to take advantage of certain pension qualifications. But the implications of the case potentially go beyond pension law. 
 The taxation of private equity funds is built on the premise that the funds are merely investors in portfolio companies and are not engaged in a "trade or business" for tax purposes - in other words, they are not actively involved in the business. But the court found in the Sun Capital case that a private equity fund was engaged in a trade or business for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act, also known as Erisa. It is not a big leap to argue that the fund was engaged in a trade or business for tax purposes. And then it gets really interesting. 
This raises the issue of whether foreign investors in a private equity fund could be taxed as effectively connected with a United States trade or business. (Under current law, those foreign investors are usually untaxed and need not file tax returns in the United States.) Similarly, tax-exempt investors like pension funds and university endowments could face tax liability for unrelated business taxable income on their investments. And if, as Steven M. Rosenthal of the Tax Policy Center has argued, the fund is in the trade or business of developing portfolio companies for sale to customers, the profit share paid to the fund's managers, which is often taxed at lower long-term capital gains rates under current law, may instead be taxed as ordinary income. 
The Sun Capital decision is important because it collapses a legal structure aimed at keeping the activities of the fund manager legally separate from the fund's investors. Typically, a private equity fund is managed by a general partner; a management company that is affiliated with the general partner usually helps to manage the fund's portfolio companies. The general partner puts in a small amount of capital but shares 20 percent of the profits, or carried interest. The limited partner investors, who contribute most of the capital, are usually institutional investors, including many tax-exempt and foreign investors. The limited partners are mostly passive and not engaged in the active management of the fund's portfolio companies. Given the passive nature of the fund's investors, most practitioners agree that the fund itself is not a trade or business.
No one disputes that the general partner (or its affiliated management company) often gets highly involved with the fund's portfolio companies. In Sun Capital, for example, the management company weighed in on the portfolio company's personnel decisions, capital spending and possible acquisitions. The critical question is whether the general partner's activities can be attributed "downward" to the fund - that is, from the partner to the partnership.
In Sun Capital, the appeals court held that the activities of the management company should be attributed to the fund and its investors for Erisa purposes, and thus that the fund, and not just the general partner, was engaged in a trade or business. In a crucial passage, the court noted that Scott Brass Inc. paid fees to the general partner of the fund for the management services it provided. Those fees were then used to offset part of the 2 percent annual management fees that the limited partners normally pay to the general partner. The court explained that these fees thus "provided a direct economic benefit" that "an ordinary, passive investor would not derive: an offset against the management fees it otherwise would have paid its general partner." Such management fee offsets are common but not universal, and some practitioners have noted the increased risk that these fee offsets may result in limited partners being treated as effectively connected with a trade or business. 
Of course, the entire private equity business model is premised on the fund's managers creating value through active management of portfolio companies, which then presumably leads to an increase in the portfolio company's value. The increase in value is then realized through a dividend or sale of the company. This value creation did not happen in the case of the bankrupt Scott Brass, and so the court used the management fee offset to identify an economic benefit to the limited partners. But even without a management fee offset, limited partners generally derive an economic benefit from the activities of the general partner. What else would justify the fees? By looking through the legal fiction separating the fund's managers and investors, the court's reasoning could easily apply in the tax context.
For now, nothing in the Sun Capital decision changes the definition of trade or business for tax purposes. The court's holding is an interpretation of Erisa, not tax law, and unless the Internal Revenue Service decides to make the argument in the tax context, nothing has changed. There are also some other code sections, like the "stock or securities" exception in section 864, that may further protect foreign investors from being treated as effectively connected with a United States trade or business. 
Finally, there were human aspects to the case that, while not discussed by the court, might have made a difference. Sun Capital was co-founded by Marc Leder, a flashy investor who has gotten attention for using the bankruptcy process to shed legacy pension liabilities. (Mr. Leder is also known for being the host of the private fund-raiser where the Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney dismissed 47 percent of Americans as victims who depend on the government to take care of them.) Here, Sun Capital bought a Rhode Island brass and copper manufacturer with obligations to a Teamsters pension fund. Sun Capital was trying to walk away from its pension liabilities. 
The case evokes the 1991 movie "Other People's Money," where Danny DeVito - as Lawrence Garfield (known to his critics as "Larry the Liquidator") - seeks to take over the struggling company New England Wire and Cable. I'm not surprised that the court wanted to write a Hollywood ending for the pensioners of Scott Brass Inc.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]

        
Renewable Energy Industries Push for New Financing Options
        
Detroit Gap Reveals Industry Dispute on Pension Math

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (94%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); TAX LAW (92%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (91%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (77%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CAPITAL CRIMES (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); TRUCKING (70%); INCOME TAX (69%) Bankruptcies; Corporate Taxes; Internal Revenue Service; International Brotherhood of Teamsters; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Financial Services; Private Equity; Standard Deduction; Top Headline 2

ORGANIZATION: Internal Revenue Service; International Brotherhood of Teamsters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



30 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Maybe Most Parents Need to Worry More About College Choice

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Admissions test scores aside, a study finds a huge difference in the completion rate of those who attend a selective college and those who attend an open-access college. 

 BODY:
Here's a novel thought: most American families worry too little about what kind of college their children attend.
Obviously, a substantial number of parents agonize far too much about the fine gradations of college prestige. Research has suggested that whether a child attends an Ivy League college, for instance, has relatively little bearing on his or her future success. 
But whether a child graduates from college has an enormous effect on future success. And many colleges do a notably poor job of turning their freshmen into graduates.
I have addressed this topic in earlier articlesandposts, and a new report from researchers at Georgetown University does a nice job of highlighting the issues through charts.
Comparing students with similar SAT scores, they find a huge difference in the completion rate of those who attend a selective college and those who attend an open-access college. (Their definition of selective includes 468 colleges, based on criteria set by Barron's.)
Perhaps most incredibly, children who score between 1,000 and 1,099 on the SAT and attend a selective college are more likely to graduate than those who scored above 1,200 and attended an open-access college. 
These patterns play a large role in perpetuating inequality, the authors note, because higher-income children are much more likely to attend selective colleges than low-income children. The report emphasizes that the variation in college quality has an especially large effect on minorities.
Over the last decade, the growth in college enrollment among white students has flowed overwhelmingly to selective colleges. White enrollment at open-access colleges remained virtually unchanged between 1995 and 2009, while white enrollment at selective colleges increased substantially. By contrast, enrollment of Latinos and African-Americans increased much more at open-access colleges than at selective colleges.
One major reason for the trend is that many more high-achieving minorities attend open-access colleges than high-achieving whites do.
Ultimately, these differences in college choices matter because of enormous financial return to education in today's economy.

        
A Steeper Climb for Single Parents
        
Snapshots of Upwardly Mobile Areas
        
Bridging the Income Barrier at Top Colleges
        
Mortgaged Diplomas
        
Q. and A. on the 'Shell Game' of College Aid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); PARENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TRENDS (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%) Colleges and Universities; Financial Aid (Education); Georgetown University; Income Inequality; United States

ORGANIZATION: Georgetown University

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



31 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Better Data, but Not Enough for the Fed

BYLINE: PHILLIP SWAGEL


HIGHLIGHT: The question for the Fed is whether a good-but-not-great quarter and months of moderate job gains are sufficient to tighten monetary policy, or simply the best such policy can produce, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Phillip Swagel is a professor at the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland and was assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department from 2006 to 2009. 
As I wrote four weeks ago, the Federal Reserve is trying to figure out when the recovery has become firm enough to reduce its purchases of Treasury bonds and government-backed mortgages made under the quantitative easing program known as QE3. This "taper" would be the first step in what is likely to be a lengthy process of moving back to a normal monetary policy after five years of extraordinary measures in the wake of the financial crisis and Great Recession.
Data released Wednesday provided a hopeful indication of strengthening economic growth, with gross domestic product increasing at an annualized rate of 1.7 percent in the second quarter of this year, against expectations of only 0.5 to 1.0 percent. This is still below the 3 to 3.5 percent that economists saw as the potential growth rate of the economy before the crisis, but constitutes acceleration from economic growth that newly revised data show to have averaged just 1.4 percent in the previous four quarters. 
The Federal Reserve stated on Wednesday afternoon that it would tighten monetary policy if inflation became a problem, but otherwise would continue with its expansionary policy "until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially." This largely mirrors previous language from the Fed's decision-making Federal Open Market Committee. The data on gross domestic product are important for assessing the Fed's intentions, since the pace of growth has a strong influence on job creation, just as consumer spending growth is likewise driven by G.D.P. growth (as explained Wednesday by Casey Mulligan). 
Many Fed watchers have concluded that there has been enough improvement for the Fed to act already, with both strengthening G.D.P. growth and job gains of more than 200,000 per month on average in the first six months of 2013 (employment data for July will be released Friday morning). Under this view, the taper would be announced on Sept. 18, when Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, is set to hold a news conference after the next meeting of the policy committee. The Fed is now buying $85 billion a month of long-term securities. It could dial this back to $60 billion a month and still provide an expansionary monetary policy, even if less so than at present.
Some details of G.D.P. growth for the second quarter support the view that the taper is at hand, notably the modest impact of tighter federal spending on the economy. Mr. Bernanke in recent Congressional testimony expressed the concern that "tight federal fiscal policy will restrain economic growth." So far at least, economic drag from the higher taxes and lower spending that took hold at the start of 2013 appear to have been offset by other factors, including a housing market recovery and a rebound in business spending. It is possible that Congress and President Obama could find themselves at loggerheads over the debt ceiling and federal budget in the fall, and that the resulting game of fiscal chicken could have a negative impact on business and consumer confidence. For now, however, one of Mr. Bernanke's chief worries seems to have been assuaged.
Even so, I am still not so sure that the Fed is ready to dial back its monetary stimulus. The figures for second-quarter G.D.P. were better than expected, but a growth rate below 2 percent is still too modest to lift job creation beyond the 200,000 recent pace or to hasten the painfully slow downward progression of the still-elevated unemployment rate. There is a sense in which seeing the G.D.P. data as good news only highlights the sadly diminished vigor of the economy since the crisis. After all, G.D.P. grew by better than 3 percent over the 15 years before 2008, and the unemployment rate remains uncomfortably high at 7.6 percent, with millions of Americans still out of work for extended periods.
Indeed, continued growth would draw back into the job market people who gave up looking for work over the past years and allow the Fed to maintain its expansionary monetary policy stance. A reversal of the decline in the labor force participation rate would be welcome because it would indicate that the recovery has finally reached those driven onto the sidelines by the recession. But renewed job seekers would keep the unemployment rate higher than otherwise - a person is counted as unemployed only if looking for work. And this continued high unemployment in turn would stave off inflationary pressures that might arise from a heating-up labor market, in that way giving the Fed more room to keep the monetary throttle open.
Moreover, it is possible that the second quarter was not actually as good as the data now indicate. The G.D.P. data released Wednesday will be revised on Aug. 29 and again on Sept. 26, incorporating additional information not yet available (the New York Fed provides a calendar with economic data releases). In particular, the first estimate of G.D.P. released Wednesday is based on figures for inventories and international trade (imports and exports) that are essentially guesses by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, the government agency that constructs the G.D.P. data. The bureau does a good job, and would do an even better one with additional budgetary resources - economic statistics are a vital function for the government. But its figures for inventories and exports were notably better than expected, meaning that downward revisions would not be especially surprising. Indeed, the bureau on Page 18 of its G.D.P. releaseindicates that the average revision of the data is 0.6 percentage points between the first estimate and the third, though this includes revisions both up and down.
The improvement in economic growth in the second quarter augurs well for continued job market gains. But the question for the Fed is whether a good-but-not-great quarter and a string of months with moderate job gains is either good enough or perhaps simply the best that can be gotten from monetary policy. With growth still modest and its future prospects uncertain, the unemployment rate high, and inflation not visible, the Fed could reasonably decide to wait several months to be sure that the recovery continues to strengthen. All eyes then will be on Friday morning's release of jobs data for July.

        
Implications for Monetary Policy
        
Wall Street's Ideal Jobs Gain: Middling
        
Inflationphobia, Part III
        
Inflationphobia, Part II
        
Inflationphobia, Part I

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (77%); STATISTICS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); BONDS (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (69%); CONSUMER SPENDING (69%); TESTIMONY (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%) Federal Reserve System; Gross Domestic Product; Quantitative Easing; United States Economy; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



32 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: It's Easy to Be Happy on a Day Like This

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: How can parents find more to enjoy in their lives with their children? 

 BODY:
The weather where I am today (in rural New Hampshire) is glorious. A smattering of clouds in a blue sky, sunshine, light breeze. This morning, I met the extra requests that my children made (things like another bowl of cereal after I'd put the box and milk away, or a return to the house for a forgotten pair of shoes) with equanimity, grace and acquiescence. "Of course!" I said to the child who asked if we could go back for her shoes (they were off to day camp, and she wanted both sandals and sneakers). 
Even as I said it, I realized that's not usually an "of course!" at all. 
Usually, I meet those extra requests in the morning with a scowl, and a lecture about doing things in a timely manner, not expecting elves to put your sneakers in your backpack, and an added dose of "This is why we never get anywhere on time and I never take you anywhere fun." 
But not today. Today the sun was shining, and neither cereal nor shoes felt like the final straw to break the mama camel's back. How can a relatively small thing, like the weather, make such a big difference? I do not, after all, have to spend the day laboring in the fields rain or shine. But a fantastic day doesn't just bring a burst of happy vitamin D sunshine. It's one less thing - no raincoats, no rushing to close windows, no boots-coats-hats drill. One less thing to worry about at the start of the day. One more thing that's going as planned.
Like many families, we tend to feel like we're right out on the edge all the time, sailing too close to the wind. Any one thing - a dead car battery, a sick child pickup from school or camp, a forgotten appointment - sets off a chain reaction of chaos that shifts the atmosphere into one of stress and storm. Suddenly it's, "I cannot believe you forgot your shoes again! How many times do we have to tell you?" rather than "Of course." It's not the way I hoped to be as a parent. It's not the way I want to be as a parent. But more often than not, it's exactly the way I really am.
Which, in the light of this sunny day, is simply is ridiculous. There are real crises in every life - illness, lost jobs, death. And there are real emergencies - ambulances, dangerous weather, accidents. Forgotten shoes are none of those things. But when the rain is falling and the wind is blowing and the various gods of car maintenance and influenza are not smiling upon you, it's easy to forget that the crisis of the forgotten shoes is really a good thing - it's you, and the child you love, healthy and with shoes and a car and a place to be. 
I know that counting your blessings is not usually the helpful mantra that it's made out to be. I distinctly remember driving my car furiously to some school event, out of sorts, late and with a million other places I'd rather be, when I heard a story on the radio about an explosion at a bakery in a city in the Middle East. Did I experience a rush of happiness that, at the very least, the school event to which I was headed was unlikely to be the target of retaliatory bombing? No. I still felt every bit of my personal worry, coupled with fresh guilt that I wasn't more grateful for my good fortune. 
It's actually only at moments of equilibrium, when everything is going smoothly, that I'm better able to take that step back and realize that, in the absence of real struggle, it really doesn't take much to either set everything right or make everything feel wrong. The weather is out of my control, but so many of those little things are "problems" I could head off at the pass. One more "no" a week to a birthday party or meeting. Cooking what's at home instead of making the last-minute run to the store between work and school pickup. Shrugging off a few things on my to-do list in favor of the things I'll wish I'd done - like walks in the evening, bike rides and baking cookies. Or maybe just taking a deep breath, and letting a few more of those little worries that aren't really worthy of worrying about at all slide right off my back.
As they say in one way or another just about everywhere, if Mama ain't happy, ain't nobody happy - and that goes for Papa, too. Sure, there dozens of things in the world that could change to make our lives easier and probably happier. But taking a look at our own lives and asking, "What one thing could I change today that would help me loosen up a bit" isn't letting the economy, our social mores or anything else off the hook. It's worth taking a moment to try to help ourselves. 

        
After a Divorce, Creeping Around Happiness
        
'Why Does Everyone Have a Grandma and Grandpa Except Me?'
        
The Half-Life of the Divorced Parent
        
$55 Billion: The Cost of Summer 2013
        
5 Secrets of Happy Family Vacations

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); PARENTING (73%); INFLUENZA (62%) Emotions; Families and Family Life; Parenting

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



33 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: New York Investigates Disqualification of Customers by Banks

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: The attorney general sent letters to six banks seeking information about the use of databases that disqualify people seeking to open checking or savings accounts. 

 BODY:
New York's top prosecutor is investigating some of the nation's largest banks in connection with their use of credit-reporting databases that disqualify people seeking to open checking or savings accounts - an inquiry that has gained urgency as the ranks of the unbanked has swelled in the aftermath of the financial crisis.
The New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, sent a batch of letters seeking information to six banks on Thursday, including Bank of America, Citibank and JPMorgan Chase, people briefed on the matter said. 
The inquiry on Thursday is playing out as a growing number of banks and credit unions tap into the vast repositories of information - a record of banking transgressions including bounced checks, overdrawn accounts and fees - to guard against risky customers and protect against fraud.
But consumer advocates and state authorities say the databases are disproportionately affecting lower-income Americans, whose precarious financial footing makes them more likely to end up in the databases for relatively small financial errors like amassing fees or bungling a monthly budget.
Concerned that banks might be "improperly denying or otherwise restricting banking access to New York consumers," Mr. Schneiderman's office is requesting more information about the use of the databases, zeroing in, for example, on how the lenders decide whether to accept a customer, according to copies of the letters reviewed by The New York Times.
Negative reports in the databases have effectively banished more than a million lower-income Americans from the financial system, relegating them to a second-class tier in which they are forced to use costly fringe operations to pay bills or cash a check, according to interviews with financial counselors, consumer lawyers and more than two dozen low-income people in California, Illinois, Florida, New York and Washington.
The ranks of those without bank accounts has ballooned - up more than 10 percent since 2009, according to the most recent estimates from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
The databases, Mr. Schneiderman's office said, could especially harm "African-Americans, Latinos and other minority groups," a potential violation of state and federal laws governing equal access to credit.
Use of the databases and the problems associated with them were the subject of an article in The Times on Wednesday.
JPMorgan said that a single negative mark in ChexSystems, the largest database, would typically not present a hurdle for someone looking to obtain an account. Others, like Bank of America and Citibank, have said that they cull the information in the databases prudently, discerning between people who have willfully committed fraud and those whose records are marred only by small mistakes.
Some banks have introduced second-chance checking accounts for people who may not qualify for traditional bank accounts. The databases, the banks say, are an important tool to root out fraud, a problem that continues to bedevil them. Losses from fraud on new bank accounts doubled from 2011 to 2012, according to Javelin Strategy and Research, surging to $9.8 billion last year.
People ensnared in the databases say it can be tough to correct inaccurate information or obtain a copy of the report, a requirement under a federal law aimed at diminishing the flow of inaccurate consumer information.
Mr. Schneiderman requested that banks detail the processes in place for consumers to dispute inaccurate information, the people said. His office is also requesting ZIP code-level data for every customer denied an account as a result of the databases from Feb. 1 to July 1 of this year, the people said.
The banks have until Tuesday to schedule a time to meet with the attorney general's office to further discuss the matter.

        
Over a Million Are Denied Bank Accounts for Past Errors
        
Regulators Seek Stiffer Bank Rules on Capital

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (91%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CREDIT UNIONS (72%) Bank of America Corporation; Banking and Financial Institutions; ChexSystems Inc; Citigroup Inc; Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Personal Finances; Schneiderman, Eric T; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; ChexSystems Inc; Citigroup Inc; Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; JPMorgan Chase &amp; Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (64%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (64%)

PERSON: Schneiderman, Eric T

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



34 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Flares in Canada at the Thought of Verizon

BYLINE: IAN AUSTEN


HIGHLIGHT: Prominent ads have appeared across the country over the last few weeks denouncing any possible incursion by Verizon. 

 BODY:
OTTAWA - While it remains far from certain that Verizon will enter the Canadian wireless market, just the idea has set off a near panic in Canada's wireless industry.
Prominent ads have appeared across the country over the last few weeks denouncing any incursion by Verizon as a threat to Canada's sovereignty and economic well being.
"How does losing thousands of jobs in the cellphone industry help Canada? It doesn't," one ad said. 
In an "open letter to all Canadians," George Cope, the president and chief executive of Bell Canada, one of the three major wireless carriers in the country, wrote that "we would like to ensure Canadians clearly understand a critical situation impacting their world-leading wireless industry."
The loud actions from Bell Canada and the country's two other major carriers, Telus and Rogers Communications, might suggest that Verizon is hoping to buy one them. But that would be prohibited under foreign ownership laws. Instead, there are rumblings that Verizon may enter Canada by buying two start-up carriers, one of which is nearly insolvent and the other is already Russian-owned and also struggling.
"We're having a national battle about an American company buying a Russian company that was once an Egyptian company," said Iain Grant, an analyst with the Seaboard Group, a telecommunications consulting firm based in Montreal. "Where else can that happen?"
Verizon has declined to comment about the Canadian industry reaction. But when asked about the company's plans for Canada during a conference call with analysts on July 18, Francis J. Shammo, the company's chief financial officer, appeared far from committed to a northern expansion.
"Let me emphasize this is really an exploratory exercise for us," he said. "Obviously some of the cautions here are the regulatory environment, a foreign investor coming into the Canadian market and what does that mean?"
Perhaps tellingly, the Canadian government's index of lobbyists does not include anyone representing Verizon, although it can take up to 60 days for new listings to appear.
If Verizon does decide to purchase Wind Mobile, which is owned by VimpelCom, a Russian company based in the Netherlands, and Mobilicity, which is mired in debt and losing about $30 million a month, it can expect a warm reception from Prime Minister Stephen Harper. His Conservative government has sided with a widespread sentiment among Canadians that wireless service is excessively expensive and has introduced a series of measures meant to create a strong fourth national carrier. 
The idea that Canadians pay too much and get too little was initially stoked by a 2009 report from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development that ranked Canada the third most expensive country in the developed world for "medium usage" cellphone plans, after the United States and Spain. Rates have dropped substantially since then. But a study released this year by Canada's telecommunications regulator concluded that prices in two of the three categories into which it divides wireless services "fall on the high side of the average" in an international comparison.
Aside from posting a petition demanding better cellphone service terms on his Facebook page, Mr. Harper has introduced measures to help turn start-up carriers from also-rans into market leaders. First, he has barred the three big carriers from buying Wind or Mobilicity. The big three companies must also sell service on their networks at wholesale rates to start-ups to enable them to offer nationwide roaming. And start-ups can acquire more radio spectrum at a government auction scheduled for January than the established players can buy.
Although Verizon had $75.9 billion in revenue last year, Canada would treat it as a start-up if it bought Wind or Mobilicity. And that treatment, said Mirko Bibic, the chief legal and regulatory officer at Bell Canada, is behind the complaints from the established carriers.
"We have absolutely no issues with competition or more competition or vigorous competition," Mr. Bibic said. "But it has to be a level playing field."
Telus, which is based in British Columbia, has asked the Federal Court of Canada for a judicial review of some of the government's concessions to start-ups. So far, the government has been unmoved. James Moore, the industry minister, said on Wednesday that it would not change its policies.
It is unclear whether Verizon would be a force for lower cellphone prices in Canada. But the company could conceivably deal with one major complaint from Canadians: even brief trips to the United States with a Canadian smartphone can produce hundreds of dollars in data roaming charges. 
Dvai Ghose, a telecommunications analyst with Canaccord Genuity, cautions that coming to Canada might not make sense for Verizon. Both Wind and Mobility are "subprime assets," he said, with customers that Verizon probably would not want to retain. And buying the two companies along with the radio spectrum and other investments would most likely involve at least $3 billion, by his estimate. 
While that is a relatively small amount for Verizon, Mr. Ghose noted that Canada has only 26.8 million wireless subscribers compared with Verizon's 100 million subscribers. Mr. Ghose estimates that Verizon would attract about five million Canadian customers.
"I think Verizon is going to come," Mr. Ghose said. "But I also think it's going to be tougher than Verizon expects."

        
T-Mobile to Pay $308 Million for More Spectrum
        
Apple Urges Trade Agency to Stop Product Ban
        
Windows Phones Gain Some Traction on Verizon Wireless
        
A Best-Selling Phone? It's Not Just a Good Phone
        
A Ruling Could Support F.C.C.'s Net Neutrality Defense

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (93%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LOBBYING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%) Canada; Telephones and Telecommunications; Verizon Communications Inc; Verizon Communications Inc|VZ|NYSE; Devices; Mobile

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); VIMPELCOM LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Verizon Communications Inc

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); RCI.A (TSX) (58%); RCI (NYSE) (58%); VIP (NYSE) (58%) Verizon Communications Inc; VZ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (58%) QUEBEC, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



35 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Chaos Looms

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The biggest issue. 

 BODY:
Is economic/political commentary like writing detective stories? In some ways, I think, it is; certainly I have always taken to heart some passages in Raymond Chandler's The Simple Art of Murder, especially the passage in which he distinguishes between the inherent importance of themes and the extent to which they are a good subject for writers: 
Other things being equal, which they never are, a more powerful theme will provoke a more powerful performance. Yet some very dull books have been written about God, and some very fine ones about how to make a living and stay fairly honest.
Right now, if inherent importance were all that mattered, I wouldn't be writing about the effects of sprawl, or the Fed succession, or even, probably, about China's brick-wall problem. I would instead be writing all the time about the looming chaos in U.S. governance.
In the short run the point is that Republican leaders are about to reap the whirlwind, because they haven't had the courage to tell the base that Obamacare is here to stay, that the sequester is in fact intolerable, and that in general they have at least for now lost the war over the shape of American society. As a result, we're looking at many drama-filled months, with a high probability of government shutdowns and even debt defaults.
Over the longer run the point is that one of America's two major political parties has basically gone off the deep end; policy content aside, a sane party doesn't hold dozens of votes declaring its intention to repeal a law that everyone knows will stay on the books regardless. And since that party continues to hold substantial blocking power, we are looking at a country that's increasingly ungovernable.
The trouble is that it's hard to give this issue anything like the amount of coverage it deserves on substantive grounds without repeating oneself. So I do try to mix it up. But neither you nor I should forget that the madness of the GOP is the central issue of our time.
While I'm at it, a note to loyal readers: I know that my output has been a bit low this week; that's because of family matters that among other things have me on the road. My guess is no posts at all tomorrow, unless traffic is a lot less severe than I expect. Normalcy should return next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



36 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: U.S. May Move Against Bank Over Jumbo Loan Securities

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Regulators are investigating Bank of America and Merrill Lynch as both companies try to move past the problems of the financial crisis. 

 BODY:
Bank of America disclosed on Thursday that the Justice Department was weighing whether to bring a civil complaint against it over claims that the bank had improperly handled securities backed by jumbo loans. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission is also considering whether to file a civil action over how Merrill Lynch, the brokerage house owned by Bank of America, handled its securities, the bank said in a filing.
 The potential actions would be the latest mortgage woes for the bank, which is based in Charlotte, N.C., just as it is trying to move beyond the problems of the financial crisis.
In the filing on Thursday, Bank of America said it was "in active discussions" related to the investigations. As part of those discussions, the bank will seek to argue why bringing a civil charge would be a mistake.
"We have made progress resolving many issues and will continue to work to address any outstanding matters," said Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America.
In addition, the New York attorney general may also move against Merrill Lynch over the residential mortgages the bank packaged and sold.
Bank of America was pummeled by a glut of bad mortgages it inherited after acquiring a troubled mortgage lender, Countrywide Financial, in the financial crisis.
And like some of its Wall Street rivals, Bank of America is still grappling with mistakes it made during the housing boom.
In October, federal prosecutors in New York accused Bank of America of churning out loans through its Countrywide unit at such a rapid clip that quality controls were largely ignored.
The bank also is facing a high-stakes lawsuit in federal court that could further crimp profits. In that case, the Federal Housing Finance Authority, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, sued Bank of America and 17 other banks, claiming that the lenders had duped the agencies into buying shaky securities.
As part of its efforts to move beyond the mortgage turmoil, Bank of America reached a $1.7 billion settlement in May to resolve a drawn-out battle with MBIA, the bond insurer, over mortgage-backed securities.

        
After Years of Battling, Bank of America and MBIA Settle Mortgage Dispute
        
U.S. Accuses Bank of America of a 'Brazen' Mortgage Fraud

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); BANK FAILURES (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BONDS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); MORTGAGE FRAUD (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%) Bank of America Corporation; Banking and Financial Institutions; Justice Department; Merrill Lynch & Co; Securities and Exchange Commission; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Justice Department; Merrill Lynch &amp; Co; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



37 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Contenders: A Reading List

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: A survey of what has been written about, and by, the two leading candidates to be the next head of the Federal Reserve, Lawrence H. Summers and Janet L. Yellen. 

 BODY:
We know, you can't get enough. So here are some suggestions for further reading about Lawrence H. Summers and Janet L. Yellen, the leading candidates to replace Ben S. Bernanke as chairman of the Federal Reserve. President Obama has said that a third candidate, Donald L. Kohn, a former vice chairman, is also under consideration.
 Lawrence Summers 
The list of essential reading about Mr. Summers begins with Ryan Lizza's 2009 New Yorker profile of Mr. Summers as President Obama's chief economic adviser. The article is dense with telling anecdotes and amusing quotes. And this: "It was Summers's instinctive skepticism and ability to penetrate to the heart of an issue that had initially impressed Obama," Mr. Lizza wrote. The president "wanted Larry's brain." But there was a problem, too: "How to exploit Summers's intellectual energy while avoiding his managerial weaknesses." 
Lots of people like Larry's brain. "You can bring him up to speed on anything in 15 minutes," Brad DeLong, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, who has known Mr. Summers for decades, wrote in 2008. "And if you can be interesting enough to keep his attention for half an hour, he will start throwing out hypotheses and what-ifs and suggesting connections you would never have thought of."
There's no need to rely on secondhand accounts. Mr. Summers's talent for rendering summary judgment on complex economic questions is on display in the columns he has written for Reuters and The Financial Times in recent years. One memorable example began, "The central irony of financial crisis is that while it is caused by too much confidence, too much borrowing and lending and too much spending, it can only be resolved with more confidence, more borrowing and lending, and more spending." 
Indeed, some economists regard this as Mr. Summers's primary talent, according to a 2009 Vanity Fair profile by William Cohan. "Some rival economists questioned the depth and breadth of Summers's insights into economics - some think him best at taking the ideas of others and articulating them with more aplomb," Mr. Cohan wrote.
At the same time, the president is not the only one with questions about Mr. Summers's interpersonal skills. The critiques usually center on his unsuccessful tenure as Harvard's president, including his controversial 2005 remarks about women in science. But his terms in government, including his most recent tour of duty, have produced a fair share of anecdotes about similar problems.
David Leonhardt offered a nuanced take on the merits and demerits of these tendencies in a 2007 profile for The New York Times Magazine. "At faculty seminars, he would sometimes interrupt another professor a few minutes into a presentation, succinctly summarize the undelivered portion, poke holes in the argument and offer suggestions about how to make the same points in more compelling fashion," Mr. Leonhardt wrote. "To the great amusement of his colleagues at Treasury, he occasionally did the same thing to officials from foreign governments who had come to call on him. But the notion that Summers can be a bully misses one thing: he likes it when people fight back. As a result of this intellectual playfulness, many people find it thrilling to talk with him. He loves to examine an idea from every possible angle, searching out the weaknesses in order to arrive at a better conclusion. Henry Kissinger has said that Summers should be given a permanent White House job, a sort of fixer of flabby policy ideas."
 Janet Yellen 
I profiled Ms. Yellen in April, noting that "no Fed chairman has been as deeply steeped in both the theory and practice of central banking." The article also described her successful advocacy in the 1990s for the view that some inflation was a good thing. Ms. Yellen's critics, however, have long questioned whether she is sufficiently committed to preventing too much inflation.
Ms. Yellen, the Fed's vice chairwoman, received relatively little media attention before this year, but it's worth reading a 1997 BusinessWeek profile. Among other things, it quotes the Yale economist and Nobel laureate James Tobin as saying that Ms. Yellen "has a genius for expressing complicated arguments simply and clearly." 
Ms. Yellen's lucidity is on display in her speeches, notably her November 2012 account of why central banks increasingly try to explain what they are doing and why.
The theme: "A growing body of research and experience demonstrates that clear communication is itself a vital tool for increasing the efficacy and reliability of monetary policy."
The Princeton University economist Alan Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman, has praised Ms. Yellen for repeatedly demonstrating "superb judgment" in her evaluation of economic conditions and her policy prescriptions. A recent Wall Street Journal analysis found that Ms. Yellen's economic forecasts since 2009 have been the most accurate of any Fed official. 
Professor Blinder also offered an endorsement of her leadership skills. "Perhaps the most important, but least understood, asset Janet Yellen would bring to the table is an ability to manage the fractious F.O.M.C.," he wrote, referring to the Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee. "If the F.O.M.C. erupts into open warfare, it will shake the markets to their boots and imperil the economy. That would not happen under a Chairman Yellen."
 Monetary Policy 
There are indications that Mr. Summers and Ms. Yellen "disagree about the central issue confronting the central bank: how much longer and how much harder to push for economic growth." They share a conviction that the Fed can and should seek to stimulate the economy during periods of slack demand. But Mr. Summers appears to have less confidence in the tools available to the Fed at the moment, and greater concern about the potential consequences.
Mr. Summers has largely avoided talking about monetary policy in recent years, at least in public settings, but there are plenty of breadcrumbs. At a private investment conference in April, he said the Fed's bond-buying campaign probably wasn't doing much good. He added that it also wasn't likely to cause inflation, but in a 2012 paper he worried that the Fed's stimulus campaign could destabilize financial markets. Ms. Yellen, by contrast, has regularly defended the Fed's policies as both safe and effective.
Both Mr. Summers (in a column for The Financial Times) and Ms. Yellen (not least by voting for it) have publicly endorsed the Fed's other effort to suppress interest rates, by declaring its intention to hold short-term rates near zero at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent. (Mr. Summers endorsed the idea but not the specific threshold.) But Mr. Summers has a history of skepticism about the Fed's move toward predictable policy-making, beginning with his 1991 declaration that "monetary rules should be avoided." Support for such rules has strengthened over the last two decades, but the Stanford economist John Taylor, a leading proponent, wrote last week that Mr. Summers appears to have retained his skepticism.
 Financial Regulation 
Ms. Yellen has received mixed reviews for her work as a financial regulator, a role she played most prominently as the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco between 2004 and 2010. "The picture that emerges," wrote the author of the most detailed examination, Alison Fitzgerald of the Center for Public Integrity, "is of an overseer who tried to point out dangers in the banking system before the situation came to a crisis in 2008, but who didn't act forcefully against banks that she saw taking excessive risk because she didn't believe she had adequate authority."
Ms. Yellen was among the first Fed officials to worry about problems in the mortgage market - a low bar, to be sure - and she told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission that she was proud that Countrywide Financial had found the San Francisco Fed's scrutiny so uncomfortable that it chose to be regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision instead. In 2010, however, she pressed to reduce the demands that the Fed was placing on Wells Fargo, the largest bank in her district.
Since the crisis, she has not only supported the administration's overhaul of financial regulation, but suggested that further steps were necessary in some areas. She singled out derivatives trading in a January speech, drawing the ire of industry groups.
Mr. Summers was a leading figure in the Clinton administration's push to reduce regulation of the banking industry and to limit or forgo entirely the regulation of newer kinds of financial activity like derivatives trading. President Clinton in 2010 said that he was mistaken in heeding Mr. Summers and other advisers by leaving derivatives unregulated. "Summers, as far as I am aware, has never publicly acknowledged his intellectual and policy errors," John Cassidy wrote on The New Yorker's Web site.
More recently, of course, Mr. Summers was again a central figure inthe Obama administration's effort to strengthen financial regulation in the wake of the 2008 crisis, supporting measures including stronger bank capital requirements and increased oversight of a wider range of financial activities. At the same time, he argued successfully for the administration to reject stronger reforms sought by many liberals, such as restrictions on the participation of retail banks in financial markets. He also fought against some changes the administration eventually embraced, including the "Volcker Rule" that seeks to limit speculative investment by banks.

        
The Gorilla and the Maginot Line
        
Hawks and Doves at the Fed
        
Better Data, but Not Enough for the Fed
        
Sadly, Too Big to Fail Is Not Over
        
Inflationphobia, Part III

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); WOMEN (70%); SUMMARY JUDGMENT (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%) Federal Reserve System; Summers, Lawrence H; Yellen, Janet L

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (95%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); BEN BERNANKE (72%) Summers, Lawrence H; Yellen, Janet L

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



38 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Saboteurs in the Potato Salad

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Republican lawmakers have a bold plan for summer recess: staging fake meetings with prescreened, softball questions. 

 BODY:
Just now, a cell of several hundred people has been dispatched into the American summer, to picnics, town halls, radio stations, hospitals and Little League playing fields, with a mission to derail the economic recovery and drum up support for sabotaging federal law. They're not terrorists, nor are they agents of a foreign government. This is your United States Congress, the Republican House, on recess for the next five weeks.
They even have a master plan, a 31-page kit put together by the House Republican Conference, for every member to follow while back home with the folks. It's called "Fighting Washington for all Americans," and includes a prototype op-ed piece, with a political version of the line usually reserved for dumping lovers: "This isn't about me. It's about you."

Here's a sample suggestion, from Page 28, of how to stage a phony public meeting with business owners: 
"Confirm the theme(s) prior to the event and make sure the participants will be 100 percent on message. (Note: while they do not have to be Republicans, they need to be able to discuss the negative effects of Obamacare on their employees.)"
And what if I have a child with cancer, and the insurance company plans to dump him if Republicans stop Obamacare in its tracks? Can I attend? Or what if I'm counting on buying into the new health care exchanges in my state, saving hundreds of dollars on my insurance bill? 
The kit has an answer: planting supporters, with prescreened softball questions, will ensure that such things never get asked. More important, this tactic will assure that any meeting with the dreaded public will go "in the direction that is most beneficial to the member," as the blueprint states. 
I thought this wasn't about you.
Oh, and Republicans should be sure to "engage with all demographics," the memo insists. It's very specific about what that means: Asians, Latinos and women. Blacks aren't mentioned. Lost cause. But millennials are included, because nothing works with young people like inauthenticity.
The planning kit's instructions on how Republicans are to talk about the economy call to mind old Soviet bromides about record wheat harvests. The most loathed Congress in the history of polling has this message: "We're working to spur economic growth and create more jobs."
They're not, of course. Not by any measure. Just the opposite. Their brinkmanship on the budget will probably cost 750,000 jobs this year, and about 900,000 next year, by the estimate of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.
In truth, the biggest drag on a recovering economy is this Congress. The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke, his candor increasing as his term winds down, said as much in his last appearances on the Hill. He faulted members for austerity and inaction. 
But those obstructions were cotton candy in the spokes of a trike compared to what Republicans are planning when they return from five weeks of Potemkin politics. Unable to stop the Affordable Care Act by the normal rules of a democracy - e.g., the Supreme Court, or winning a national election - a core group of leading Republicans now plan to sabotage the law. 
If the president doesn't agree to halt operating funds for his signature achievement on the eve of its implementation, Republicans may shut down the government, throwing thousands of people out of work and disrupting a huge part of the economy. This could leave millions of the uninsured in the dark, and create chaos at hospitals and businesses.
As a further blackmailing tactic, Republicans are also threatening to stop paying the bills on things that they already agreed to pay for - the basic services of government. They would shutter national parks, defund federal law enforcement, slow Social Security payments. Fun stuff.
You won't hear it from the saboteurs, but this economy is truly getting better. Over seven million new jobs have been created in the last 40 months, and this year is shaping up to be the best one for private-sector job growth since 1999. The stock market is at a record high. The housing market is robust again. The federal deficit is falling at the fastest rate in 60 years. And in June, the government actually ran a $116 billion surplus - that is, took in that much more than it spent.
But there are at least four million long-term unemployed Americans. The Great Recession did permanent damage to their lives and their families. Wages are stagnant; the cost of living is not. The price of college, the best elevator to the middle class, is cruelly high, forcing a generation of young people to carry oppressive debt for the first decade or so of their adult lives. 
If there was even a modest effort by Republicans to meet the president halfway on helping people with the big things in life, this Congress would not be polling at a level reserved for disbarred lawyers. Instead, those barren lawmakers have chosen to stage fake meetings with fake citizens, all to keep the government from performing any meaningful duties. How low can they go? Watch. But keep a safe distance.

        
Has the G.O.P. Gone Off the Deep End?
        
The Decline of Black Power in the South
        
The New Economic Risk: Complacency
        
A Republican Left Turn?
        
The Republican Autopsy Report

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); YOUTH SPORTS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); WHEAT FARMING (64%); TERRORISM (57%) Republican Party; United States Politics and Government; Timothy Egan

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



39 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1766 words

HEADLINE: Former Trader Is Found Liable in Fraud Case

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Fabrice Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs trader at the center of a toxic mortgage deal sold to investors on the eve of the financial crisis, was found liable on six of the seven civil charges against him. 

 BODY:
Updated, 10:03 p.m. | A former Goldman Sachs trader at the center of a toxic mortgage deal lost a closely watched legal battle on Thursday, giving Wall Street's top regulator its first significant courtroom victory in a case stemming from the financial crisis.
A federal jury found the trader, Fabrice Tourre, liable on six counts of civil securities fraud after a three-week trial in Lower Manhattan. The case had given both sides - the government and Mr. Tourre - a chance to repair their reputations.
 For the Securities and Exchange Commission, a regulator dogged by its failure to thwart the crisis, the case offered a shot at redemption following one courtroom disappointment after another, including two similar mortgage-related cases that crumbled last year.
For Mr. Tourre, 34, who abandoned his trading career to pursue a doctorate in economics and become a teacher, the threat of being barred from Wall Street came second to the black mark on his name. 
Five years after Wall Street risk-taking nearly toppled the economy, the S.E.C. has taken only a handful of employees to court in connection with the crisis; most cases have been settled. The agency has not leveled fraud charges against one top executive at a big bank.
"He was the one that didn't get away," one of the nine jurors, Beverly Rhett, said after the verdict. "The decision-making was a slow and arduous process," said Ms. Rhett, a retired teacher who was juror No. 2. "We went over each item with a fine-tooth comb. We looked into the semantics and tried to understand them as best as we could."
"We never felt there was anything that was cut and dry," she added.
The S.E.C. threw innumerable resources at Mr. Tourre's case, underscoring its importance to the agency. The onslaught began when the S.E.C. opened an investigation into Goldman after the 2008 crisis.
Lorin Reisner, then the No. 2 enforcement official at the agency, conducted all the pretrial depositions, a task typically assigned to lower-level investigators. When it came time for trial, the S.E.C. assigned Matthew T. Martens to lead the case, although he typically oversees the agency's trial lawyers without acting as one.
"There is no denying the importance of this to the S.E.C. because it is a financial crisis case," said Stephen J. Crimmins, a partner at the law firm K&L Gates and former deputy chief litigation counsel in the S.E.C. enforcement division, who was not involved in this case.
Yet even with the triumph over Mr. Tourre, the S.E.C. could still face scrutiny.
Some critics have questioned why the agency chose to make Mr. Tourre - a midlevel employee who was stationed in the bowels of Goldman's mortgage machine - the face of the crisis. Rather than aim at a high-flying executive, the agency pursued someone barely known on Wall Street.
Those concerns also arose in another S.E.C. crisis-era case, in which a jury cleared a midlevel Citigroup employee, questioning why the agency had declined to charge more senior executives. Even Ms. Rhett, the juror, after reflecting on Mr. Tourre's case, said, "I could characterize him as somewhat of a scapegoat."
"There are bigger fish out there swimming fat and free, and they made a lot more money from the mess than Tourre ever dreamed of making," said Erik Gordon, a professor of law and of business at the University of Michigan.
For its part, the S.E.C. notes that it has won about 80 percent of its trials under Mr. Martens and has sued 66 chief executives and other senior officers in cases related to the financial crisis. S.E.C. officials also note that the agency files cases only where they can be proved, even if that means not pursuing top executives insulated from the bad acts of their employees.
Andrew Ceresney, co-director of the S.E.C.'s division of enforcement, said in a statement: "We are gratified by the jury's verdict finding Mr. Tourre liable for fraud. We will continue to vigorously seek to hold accountable, and bring to trial when necessary, those who commit fraud on Wall Street."
It is unclear whether Mr. Tourre will appeal the verdict. A spokesman for Mr. Tourre declined to comment.
But a friend who dined with Mr. Tourre this week at Walker's Restaurant, a pub near the courthouse, said he appeared upbeat while discussing his doctoral program at the University of Chicago. "He doesn't really care and finds the entire thing politically motivated," the friend, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said about the S.E.C.'s case.
After two days of deliberation, the nine-person jury concluded that Mr. Tourre had misled investors about the mortgage deal at the heart of the case. Of the seven charges against Mr. Tourre, the jury found him liable on six. He was found not liable of perhaps the most specific fraud charge, which contended he had knowingly made an untrue or misleading statement.
Juror No. 9, Leonel Lopez, 27, who works in advertising, said, "I found Mr. Tourre's testimony to be genuine and the defense's case solid, but the evidence suggested that a number of S.E.C. violations had occurred."
As the verdict was read on Thursday, Mr. Tourre sat emotionless, briefly glancing at the jury before fixing his stare elsewhere. When the jury shuffled from the courtroom, few made eye contact with him. Minutes later, he departed the building, carrying a copy of "The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire" by Edward Gibbon.
Judge Katherine B. Forrest has the final say on the penalty Mr. Tourre must pay, be it forfeiture of profits or a fine. The fine could range from $5,000 to $130,000 for each violation.
Mr. Tourre could also be barred from the securities industry, but that decision lies solely with the S.E.C.
The S.E.C.'s victory reopens some wounds for Goldman, which is paying for Mr. Tourre's defense. Inside the bank, employees had been quietly cheering for Mr. Tourre, whom one executive called "the poor kid." Viewing the S.E.C.'s case as thin, the executives saw Mr. Tourre as a proxy for the fight they wanted to wage with regulators.
Goldman settled with the S.E.C. in 2010, paying what was at the time a record $550 million fine. The bank conceded that it had made a "mistake."
On Thursday, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs said, "As a firm, we remain focused on being more transparent, more accountable and more responsive to the needs of our clients."
The verdict comes three years after the S.E.C. thrust Mr. Tourre into the spotlight with civil charges and a series of embarrassing e-mails. Those e-mails, in which Mr. Tourre referred to a friend's nicknaming him the "Fabulous Fab," a moniker that has come to define Mr. Tourre's persona, transformed him from an obscure trader into a symbol of Wall Street hubris.
The S.E.C.'s case against Mr. Tourre hinged on the contention that he and Goldman sold investors a mortgage security in 2007 without disclosing a crucial conflict of interest: a hedge fund that helped construct the deal, Paulson & Company, also bet that it would fail. In his opening argument to the jury, Mr. Martens, the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer, depicted the commission's case as an assault on "Wall Street greed," arguing that Mr. Tourre created a deal "to maximize the potential it would fail."
Mr. Tourre was living in a "Goldman Sachs land of make-believe" where deceiving investors is not fraudulent, Mr. Martens declared on Tuesday.
Throughout the trial, Mr. Martens invoked documents that Goldman had submitted to investors - including a term sheet and a 66-page marketing book - in which the bank said that the deal was "selected by ACA," an independent company, without reference to Paulson & Company. Mr. Martens also cited an e-mail in which Mr. Tourre stated that the riskiest slice of the mortgage trade - a piece typically bought by someone betting that the deal would succeed - was "precommitted," when in fact it was not even going to be offered.
The S.E.C. also used some of Mr. Tourre's love notes to a girlfriend who worked at Goldman to impugn his credibility. In one e-mail, he joked about selling toxic real estate bonds to "widows and orphans."
On the witness stand, Mr. Tourre acknowledged that the e-mail had been "in poor taste."
But he was confident that he did nothing wrong. "I am here to tell the truth and clear my name," Mr. Tourre, whose fresh face and diminutive stature suggest he is much younger than his age of 34.
His lawyers portrayed him as a scapegoat who was 28 at the time of the crisis. The lawyers also noted that senior Goldman executives had approved the deal.
"The idea that Fabrice Tourre, a 28-year-old vice president, was conjuring up a $1 billion fraud, or conspiring with others, is just not supported by the evidence," Sean Coffey, one of his lawyers, said during his closing arguments.
Mr. Tourre's lawyers have argued that what Paulson & Company was doing should not have mattered to investors. The trade in question had to have an investor who was betting it would fail, and another betting it would rise - a fact each side knew.
The verdict calls into question the decision by Mr. Tourre's lawyers not to call a single witness, a show of confidence that failed to impress a jury that also included a minister, a graphic designer and a former stockbroker. Some jurors appeared to nod off as the case became bogged down in financial minutiae.
On Thursday, as they emerged from the courthouse, several jurors appeared troubled. "It was intense," one said. "Exhausting," said another.
The mood was upbeat at a Starbucks down the street, where the S.E.C.'s legal team took shelter from the rain after the trial. They stood in a group near the doorway, tapping on their smartphones as they arranged train tickets home to Washington.
Mr. Tourre returned to the same place he had started each day: a cramped conference room in an apartment building next to the courthouse. Mr. Tourre, said one person in the room, was the only one there who was upbeat.
The war room, as his lawyers called it, was typically full of tinfoil containers from nearby fast food restaurants. A white board listed names of witnesses. Mr. Tourre often camped out in a smaller room littered with empty Diet Coke cans.
"It's home right now," he said recently, shrugging his shoulders.
 William Alden, Michael J. de la Merced and Alexandra Stevenson contributed reporting. 
An article on Friday about the civil trial of Fabrice Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs trader, misstated the surname of one of the jurors in two references. As the article correctly noted elsewhere, she is Beverly Rhett, not Rhetts.

        
In Tourre Trial, S.E.C. Wages Battle Against Its Own Witness
        
Deliberations Start in Goldman Trader's Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); DEPOSITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (59%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Collateralized Debt Obligations; Forrest, Katherine B; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Hedge Funds; Martens, Matthew T; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Paulson & Co; Paulson, John A; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Tourre, Fabrice P; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Paulson &amp; Co; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (91%) Forrest, Katherine B; Martens, Matthew T; Paulson, John A; Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



40 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Irritated? He Knows How You Feel

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
AS a tennis player, John McEnroe was known as much for his on-court irritability as for his Wimbledon titles, and now a brand has hired him for a campaign about irritation of another sort.
Dove Men+Care, the Unilever brand, promotes its deodorant line, which contains moisturizers, with the tagline ''Tough on sweat, not on skin.'' To help promote its sponsorship of the New York City Marathon in November, Dove is rolling out three tongue-in-cheek Web videos in which Mr. McEnroe offers what the brand calls ''anti-irritation tips'' for runners.
''I'm John McEnroe and I know a thing or two about irritation,'' he says at the beginning of the videos, in which he addresses irritating situations, like fans ringing cowbells or other runners wearing silly costumes, along with chafing. 
The videos are what marketers call branded content, which aims to entertain consumers more than to promote products. The product is not sold overtly, but rather highlighted in an opening ''brought to you by'' message and a closing product shot accompanied by the text ''Running has its irritations -- your deodorant shouldn't be one of them.''
Dove is sponsoring New York's marathon for the first time. Matthew McCarthy, senior director of deodorants and antiperspirants at Unilever, said marathons were ''a huge passion point'' for men over 35, to whom the brand is primarily promoted.
The original Dove brand celebrates naturally beautiful women rather than airbrushed, stick-figure supermodels in its long-running ''Real Beauty'' campaigns. In the same way, Dove Men+Care, which was introduced in 2010, promotes traits like men's parenting skills over hypermasculine images of men with bulging muscles surrounded by women.
''The Dove Men+Care brand is about bringing real care for real men, and the marathon is a sporting event that real people run in,'' Mr. McCarthy said.
A contest promoting the sponsorship will award two coveted spots to run in the marathon -- an atypical strategy for brands, which usually provide tickets to be a spectator (like at the Super Bowl) rather than a participant.
Gift bags with samples of the deodorant will be distributed to marathon registrants.
The videos, which are by Davie Brown Entertainment, will be introduced on Aug. 8. Digital ads, by Ryan Partnership, will be introduced in early September.
Mr. McEnroe said that although he had never run a marathon, casting him in the videos was logical.
''With me being the irritable type, the product we're working with made sense,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''If they can calm me down, they can calm anyone down.''
Mr. McEnroe, 54, now a tennis analyst on television, is remembered as a player for his sometimes profane outbursts at court officials, as in the 1981 match in which he first yelled ''You cannot be serious'' at a chair umpire. He has often made light of his short fuse in advertisements, including an American Express commercial from 2007. To highlight the credit card's dispute-resolution services, Mr. McEnroe knocks on the door of an umpire with whom he had disputed a call at the 1985 United States Open -- and gives him a hug.
While 43 percent of Americans say they would describe Mr. McEnroe as aggressive and 28 percent as emotional, only 1 percent describe him as either warm or compassionate, according to E-Poll Market Research, a brand and celebrity research firm.
Gerry Philpott, chief executive of E-Poll, lauded Mr. McEnroe for ''being very comfortable playing off the bad boy image'' in commercials, adding that in the case of the Dove Men+Care videos, some of the negative perceptions of Mr. McEnroe could actually make the videos more memorable.
''People will get a chuckle out of this because they know he's making fun of himself,'' Mr. Philpott said. ''It will help to get this message to stick in people's heads.''
Dove Men+Care, which declined to reveal projected expenditures for the campaign, in 2012 spent $42.3 million on advertising for its range of products, which include body wash, shampoo and shave gel, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP.
Antiperspirants showed no strain during the recession, with revenue in the category growing by 14 percent from 2007 through 2012, according to Mintel, a market research firm. Unit sales were flat or declined for some of those years, but consumers paid more for newer offerings like so-called clinical strength products, which have higher concentrations of active ingredients and which can cost more than twice as much as standard deodorants.
Research commissioned by Unilever found that 62 percent of men have experienced some irritation from deodorant, and that when it came to choosing a deodorant, a nonirritating formula was the third most important attribute, behind efficacy and scent.
Brian Morrissey, the editor in chief of Digiday, an online publication that covers digital marketing and media, competes in marathons and in 56-mile ultramarathons, so he is no stranger to irritation.
While he said that videos about irritation would resonate with long-distance runners, he doubted that the New York City Marathon competitors who got the deodorant in their swag bags would be applying it on race day.
''Before a marathon, I wouldn't put on deodorant,'' Mr. Morrissey said. ''And judging from what I smell out there, I don't think that many people do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John McEnroe, known as much for his short temper as his long list of tennis titles, will appear in a series of videos for runners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA BARISONZI)
 An ad from the campaign for Dove Men+Care deodorant. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); MARATHONS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); RUNNING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MEN (77%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (77%); WOMEN (77%); BRANDING (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); PARENTING (51%)

COMPANY: UNILEVER PLC/NV (58%)

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (58%); UNA (BIT) (58%); UNA (AMS) (58%); UN (NYSE) (58%); ULVR (LSE) (58%); UL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



41 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: ArcelorMittal Reports 2nd Quarter Net Loss of $780 Million

BYLINE: By STANLEY REED

 BODY:
LONDON -- ArcelorMittal, the world's largest steel company, reported on Thursday a net loss of $780 million for the second quarter, compared with net income of about $1 billion in the same period a year earlier. The company also reported $1.7 billion in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the commonly used metric in the steel industry, a figure that was in line with analysts' consensus forecasts. 
The company cut its Ebitda forecast for 2013 to $6.5 billion, from the ''above $7.1 billion'' figure given at the time it released its previous results in May.
The earnings were hurt by continued losses in Europe, where the company took $212 million in write-offs after closing plants at Florange in France. Production suffered in the United States as a result of labor problems and operational issues at plants at Burns Harbor and Indiana Harbor on Lake Michigan in Indiana.
The company's shares were down about 3 percent in Amsterdam.
The operating environment, especially in Europe, where ArcelorMittal has a large proportion of its production and employees, remains difficult. While steel shipments for the company, which is based in Luxembourg, rose 1.7 percent to 21.3 million tons, compared with the first quarter of 2013, the overall operating margin for the first half of 2013 was 1.9 percent, compared with 4.5 percent for the first half of 2012.
The main European unit, Flat Carbon Europe, which supplies flat steel for making cars and other products, posted an operating loss of $198 million for the quarter. The company says it averaged a loss of $28 on each metric ton of production at the unit, which has been highly unprofitable in recent years.
The company did say that the second half of 2012 had marked the lowest point in what has been a very trying few years since the financial crisis. The company forecasts that a 1 percent to 2 percent rise in steel shipments this year, coupled with cost-cutting, will lift profit. ''We still expect the underlying performance of the company to improve compared to 2012,'' Lakshmi N. Mittal, the chief executive, told reporters Thursday.
It appears that the company, which Mr. Mittal built through acquisitions before the financial crisis, continues to face a long, hard journey. The company has closed plants in France and Spain and has idled others in Belgium and elsewhere, but the question is whether that will be sufficient. Other European steel executives say they believe that there is still substantial overcapacity in Europe, where only about 10 percent of the blast furnaces that were operating before the financial crisis have been clsoed, while demand for steel has fallen about 30 percent.
Robrecht Himpe, chief of European flat steel for ArcelorMittal, said in a statement that the unit's production was up 2.8 percent compared with the first quarter, despite ''the continued drop in European steel demand.''
Jeff Largey, an analyst at Macquarie in London, wrote in a research note that ArcelorMittal's results showed ''some encouraging signs of improvement in performance" in its Europe flat steel business. But he added that weak results in North America demonstrated that the company was ''still subject to the volatility of the structurally challenged steel industry.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); EBITDA (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (89%); CLOSINGS (88%); SHIPMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (94%)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (94%); MT (PAR) (94%); MT (NYSE) (94%); MT (AMS) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (94%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (94%)

PERSON: LAKSHMI N MITTAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (56%) INDIANA, USA (87%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%) FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (87%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); BELGIUM (79%); SPAIN (79%); NETHERLANDS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



42 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 6269 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'Bill Traylor: Drawings From the Collections of the High Museum of Art and the Montgomery Museum of Fine Arts' and 'Traylor in Motion: Wonders From New York Collections' (through Sept. 22) The achievement of this great American artist -- a former slave and sharecropper -- unfolds in exceptional side-by-side exhibitions. The hundreds of drawings Traylor made starting in 1939, at 85, while living on the streets of Montgomery, Ala., reveal a natural stylist and a born storyteller who pushed stories of everyday life toward abstraction with no loss of vivacity. At once modern and archaic, Traylor's indelible vision is rich both in its formal invention and its witnessing of the South before the civil rights movement. American Folk Art Museum, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith) 
&#x2605; Bronx Museum of the Arts: 'State of Mind: New California Art Circa 1970' (through Sept. 8) California in the 1960s and '70s was one of the weirder places on the planet, home to radical strains of both right- and left-wing politics, a hub of the national defense industry and a breeding ground for alternative cultures from Beat to hippie. It also produced its own strain of Conceptualism, the international art style that valued ideas and actions over things. This Bronx Museum show gives a vivid sense of the West Coast version, with its gawky rawness, sense of moral purpose, humor, and dovetailing of braininess and zaniness. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, the Bronx, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
Brooklyn Museum: 'The Bruce High Quality Foundation: Ode to Joy, 2001-2013' (through Sept. 22) The New York collective of anonymous young artists known as the Bruce High Quality Foundation has generated much buzz and some puzzlement since emerging in 2004. This messy retrospective answers few questions, but brings enough together for provisional assessment. Mostly there are not very provocative parodies of works by famous artists like Picasso and Warhol. The group's best efforts are videos, including a short zombie movie called ''Isle of the Dead'' that exudes an affecting, generational pathos. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)
Brooklyn Museum: 'Divine Felines: Cats of Ancient Egypt' (through Dec. 2014) If your dream of heaven is eternity spent with the pets you love, ''Divine Felines: Cats of Ancient Egypt'' is a show for you. All of its 30 objects, sifted from the museum's renowned Egyptian collection, are of cats, big and little, feral and tame, celestial and not. Whether cast in bronze or carved in stone, their forms and personalities were meant to outlast time, and so they have. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
Brooklyn Museum: 'LaToya Ruby Frazier: A Haunted Capital' (through Aug. 11) This preternaturally mature body of work by a 31-year-old photographer connects bedrooms and streetscapes, the suffering of loved ones and the afflictions of a ''distressed municipality'' (the state's official term for Ms. Frazier's hometown, Braddock, Pa.). Simultaneously introspective and extroverted, it's composed of arresting black-and-white photographs that sometimes look like studio portraits or social documentaries but aren't fully at home in either category. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 18) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria, where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabriclike sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and it is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; The Cloisters: 'Search for the Unicorn: An Exhibition in Honor of The Cloisters' 75th Anniversary' (through Aug. 18) The lonely subject of the ''Unicorn Tapestries'' is united with others of its species in ''Search for the Unicorn,'' honoring the 75th anniversary of the Cloisters. Drawn from the Met's holdings and from other public and private collections, it includes manuscripts, paintings, decorative objects and ''unicorn horns'' (actually the tapered, spiral-patterned tusks of the narwhal). The show is a gateway to various fantasy worlds, some of them beyond the scope of medieval Western Europe; a page from the ''Shahnama,'' the Persian ''Book of Kings,'' shows the monarch Iskandar (otherwise known as Alexander the Great) fighting off the one-horned, equine Monster of Habash. 99 Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 923-3700, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'James Turrell' (through Sept. 25) At once ravishing and hokey, ''Aten Reign,'' the show's centerpiece, turns the museum's famed rotunda into the bliss-out environmental art hit of the summer: an immense, elliptical, nearly hallucinatory play of light and color achieved with elaborate scrims and computerized lighting that might oxymoronically be called a meditative spectacle. Four other installation works from the 1960s and '70s outline the single-minded trajectory of this leading proponent of the Light and Space movement and also provide a simpler, more direct, more mindful experience of, in his words, ''seeing yourself see.'' 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; International Center of Photography: 'A Different Kind of Order: The ICP Triennial' (through Sept. 22) The fourth, and best, edition of the International Center of Photography's triennial turns out to be that extremely rare thing in New York City these days, an exhibition of contemporary art for adults. The up-to-the-minute emphasis is on the continuing and enveloping impact of digital technology on photography. The results, as seen here, couldn't be more varied and gripping in content. This is a show that's in touch with the big, live, real world out there beyond Frieze New York. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'Jack Goldstein x 10,000' (through Sept. 29) The first American museum retrospective of this brilliant but elusive artist, organized by the Orange County Museum of Art, is both a celebration and a cautionary tale. It revels in Goldstein's posthumous influence as it reveals the tragic disconnect of his life and his art, the desire to disappear complicated by an intense careerist drive. This exhibition offers (in addition to paintings, sculptures and Goldstein's signature films of the late 1970s) a rare look at the early, performance-based films: works like ''Milk,'' in which the persistent banging of a fist on a table finally topples a glass, or ''Spotlight,'' in which a beam chases the artist around an empty room. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Civil War and American Art' (through Sept. 2) If you've seen ''Photography and the American Civil War'' at the Met, you might suppose that viewing another exhibition about the war would be redundant. It's not. With outstanding works by Frederic Edwin Church, Sanford Robinson Gifford and Winslow Homer, this gripping show sheds expansive light on the nation's experience of its own fratricidal conflict. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Photography and the American Civil War' (through Sept. 2) As intellectually fascinating as it is emotionally wrenching, this exhibition is sure to be remembered as one of the great museum photography shows ever. Its more than 200 photographs include expansive images of battlefields and war-ruined towns; wallet-size portraits of soldiers; preciously framed daguerreotypes; political campaign buttons; a doctor's documents of horrifically wounded soldiers; portraits of loved ones in lockets; and a series depicting the hanging of five co-conspirators in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by the photographer Alexander Gardner. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Ken Price: A Retrospective' (through Sept. 22) Tableware? Toys? Genetic accidents? Objets d'art? The ceramic sculptures of Ken Price suggest all these possibilities. To the market's old, divide-and-label query ''Is this art or craft?,'' Price offered one, finessing answer: ''Yes.'' And right he was. You see the rightness instantly in the Met retrospective, which is one of those ideal shows: perfect size, great design (by Frank Gehry), pretty near faultless art. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. Ideal, too, in a plainer way, is a concurrent survey of the artist's works on paper, ''Ken Price: Slow and Steady Wins the Race,'' running through Aug. 18 at the Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Cotter)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Punk: Chaos to Couture' (through Aug. 14) This entertaining exhibition proves that high fashion rarely looks quite as frivolous and cluelessly 1 percent-ish as when it upgrades aspects of the obstreperous punk sartorial mode, adding gold-plated safety pins, careful rips and holes, and a feigned DIY look that can involve materials like garbage bags or cellophane. Cleverness abounds. A few designers absorb and transform punk attributes, but most garments simplistically scream punk. Not for nothing do they call the show's organizing department the Costume Institute. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Roof Garden Commission: Imran Qureshi' (through Nov. 3) Visitors to the Met's rooftop will discover something shocking: the stone terrace is splattered with paint the color of dried blood so that it resembles the scene of some terrible crime. Looking closer at the areas of spillage, viewers will find they have been delicately altered. With deft white and red brush strokes, the Pakistani artist Imran Qureshi has worked into the raw paint a pattern suggestive of leafy shrubbery and flower petals, turning the whole into a politically fraught, allegorical mix symbolizing dualities of life and death and hope and despair. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Expo 1: New York' (through Sept. 2) A sprawling, multisite extravaganza including a multitude of installations, shows-within-shows and events, ''Expo 1: New York'' offers few answers but raises many provocative questions about the current and future state of our planet's unsettled human and natural ecology. Attractions at PS1 range from a beautiful show of pictures by the beloved nature photographer Ansel Adams to a refrigerated room containing chunks from an Icelandic glacier by Olafur Eliasson. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Illuminating Faith: The Eucharist in Medieval Life and Art' (through Sept. 15) Spring-into-summer was the season for open-air processions in medieval Europe. The one staged annually for the feast of Corpus Christi, celebrating the bodily presence of Jesus Christ in the bread and wine of the Mass, was among the most ardent, elaborate and politically loaded of all. And it retains all those qualities in this ravishing, superbly documented survey of sacramental imagery, mostly in the form of exquisitely painted books. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
Morgan Library & Museum: 'Old Masters, Newly Acquired' (through Oct. 6) This celebration of new acquisitions includes about a hundred pre-1900 drawings, all donated, bequeathed or purchased from 2009 to 2012. Dispensing with themes and chronology, the show groups works by patron: Astor, von Blow and so on. The late-19th-century selections are especially strong; here are not one but two early Degas self-portraits in black chalk; prismatic watercolors by Czanne and Renoir; a vibrant Gauguin pastel of two Breton girls; and a Seurat horse and landscape in his mossy shadings of cont. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street; (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Subliming Vessel: The Drawings of Matthew Barney' (through Sept. 2) With its Gospels and reliquaries, the Morgan Library is at the right place for the first survey of graphic work by the most medievalizing of American contemporary artists. Encased in thick, pale, plastic frames, Mr. Barney's drawings of the past two decades have the look of precious pages from sacred books displayed on iPads. His images, with their emphasis on redemption through fleshly mortification, suggest sources in heroic epics and penitential religion, filtered through Sade and extreme sports. A display of collagelike storyboards for his films confirms the occult glamour of the personal cosmology he has developed, which feels as artificial and addictive as a video game. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; El Museo del Barrio: 'La Bienal 2013: Here Is Where We Jump' (through Jan. 4) Much of the work by the 37 artists in the seventh edition of El Museo's Bienal is budget-conscious in its materials and modest in size, scaled to small studios. Maybe exactly because of such restrictions, the show is thoughtful and personal, uneven in parts, solid as a whole. It's also a product of that old-fashioned thing, the ethnically specific museum. Even with definitions of ethnicity stretched all kinds of ways -- what does ''Latino'' really mean anymore, anyway? -- the issue of identity remains at the core of such institutions and informs much of the work in this show. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Arts and Design: 'Against the Grain: Wood in Contemporary Art, Craft and Design' (through Sept. 15) This sixth show in the museum's Materials and Process series is a big improvement on its predecessors, mostly because it feels more artist- and designer-driven. Representing the Chelsea gallery contingent are Alison Elizabeth Taylor, with marquetry installations; Phoebe Washburn and Leonardo Drew, with scrap-wood sculptures; and Roy McMakin, with slyly repurposed found furniture. From the design-fair circuit come functional works like Mark Moskovitz's ''Facecord,'' a sideboard that looks like a stack of firewood when the drawers are closed, and Maarten Baas's knife block in the shape of a head (which seems destined for the MoMA design store). 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Bill Brandt: Shadow and Light' (through Aug. 12) With nearly 160 works ranging from photographs of London in the 1930s and during World War II to nearly abstract Surrealist nudes from the 1950s and '60s, this impeccable survey makes a strong if slightly over-edited argument for Brandt as one of the founders of modern photography. It sticks to vintage prints and brings a wonderful lucidity to a persistent balance of art and humanity that is, as it is frequently described: strange, mysterious and irresistible. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Ellsworth Kelly: Chatham Series' (through Sept. 8) Together again for the first time in 40 years, the 14 two-panel Chatham paintings from 1971 offer giddy instruction in the weights, measures and balances of strong color -- red, blue, green, yellow, black and white. The works -- abutting rectangles that form an inverted L -- seem to expand or contract as you move around the gallery. An adjoining display of 40 small collages from 1951 shows Mr. Kelly laying out some of the stringent abstract vocabulary that he has mined ever since. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Walker Evans: American Photographs' (through Jan. 26) In 1938, the Museum of Modern Art mounted its first one-person photography exhibition: ''American Photographs,'' by Walker Evans. This gripping, 75th-anniversary reprisal of that show presents more than 50 images from that body of work. It is accompanied by a reissue of the original catalog, which includes a wonderfully insightful essay by Evans's friend and supporter Lincoln Kirstein. Together, the show and the book reverberate now in a time when the idea of America is subject to debates as fractious and far-reaching as at any time since the Civil War. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
National Academy Museum: 'Jeffrey Gibson: Said the Pigeon to the Squirrel' (through Sept. 8) The work of Mr. Gibson, an abstract painter who often works on animal hides in homage to his American Indian heritage (he is a member of the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians and is half Cherokee), embodies two sweeping trends in contemporary art: feverishly bright geometric abstraction and the creative reuse of found objects. The animal hides are stretched over antique mirrors and ironing boards, and even wrapped around fluorescent light tubes in a nod to Dan Flavin. His works have plenty of visual pizazz but can be weak conceptually; the better ones evoke performance of various kinds, from raves to traditional American Indian dances. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Neue Galerie: 'Koloman Moser: Designing Modern Vienna 1897-1907' (through Sept. 2) Along with his better-known colleague, Josef Hoffmann, Moser was a founder of the Wiener Werksttte, the consortium of designers and artisans that produced some of the 20th century's most beautiful objects. Focusing on Moser's most productive years, this gorgeous exhibition presents more than 200 exquisitely elegant works, including books, glassware, metal pieces, ceramics, jewelry and furniture. 1048 Fifth Avenue at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)
New Museum: 'Ellen Gallagher: Don't Axe Me' (through Sept. 15) Ellen Gallagher emerged in the early 1990s with memorable paintings that yoked Minimalism to minstrelsy by scattering tiny caricatures of eyes and mouths across creamy expanses of paper and canvas. More recently she has branched out from painting and collage to film, and from pop-culture imagery to literary and science-fiction references. For ''Osedax'' (2010), made with her partner, Edgar Cleijne, visitors crouch to enter a black-box theater and settle in to view two simultaneous projections: one of glass slides hand-painted with watery abstractions, the other a 16-millimeter film incorporating footage of a shipwreck off Rhode Island. It's the most interesting part of a piecemeal, sometimes arbitrary-feeling show that coincides with a larger retrospective at Tate Modern. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
New Museum: 'Llyn Foulkes' (through Sept. 1) Although poorly organized, this exhibition devoted to a great American original contains several one-of-a-kind masterpieces. Displayed in a small, dark corner room where it glows uncannily, partly by virtue of real lights built into it, ''Pop'' (1985-1991) is a 10-foot-wide marvel of comic magic realism and meticulous craftsmanship. In a homey, wood-paneled living room, the main character, a portrait of the middle-aged artist, sits in a paisley-patterned armchair, staring with bugged-out eyes, evidently driven to catatonic paralysis by what he's seeing on the television. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
New-York Historical Society: 'Swing Time: Reginald Marsh and Thirties New York' (through Sept. 1) A Social Realist with satiric leanings, Marsh (1898-1954) painted the seamy side of life in New York during the Great Depression. Using egg tempera with a skittery touch, he made flickering, cartoonish images in a palette ranging from sooty to garishly bright; he painted burlesque performers, people on busy sidewalks and crowded subway stations, Coney Island amusement seekers and the homeless and destitute. His voyeuristic eye for fiercely self-assertive, full-figured young women adds an intriguing, creepy psychology. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Johnson)
Rubin Museum of Art: 'Fiercely Modern: Art of the Naga Warrior' (through Sept. 16) The Naga were a diverse collection of peoples speaking similar languages and residing in a mountainous area in northeastern India. Headhunting was one of their most prized pursuits until they were almost entirely Christianized in the early 20th century. They also created extraordinarily beautiful textiles, jewelry and ceremonial objects, as this intriguing, introductory show demonstrates. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Hopper Drawing' (through Oct. 6) With more than 200 drawings, two dozen sketchbook pages and an essential bonus of 21 paintings, this landmark exhibition takes us behind the curtain of stillness that makes Hopper's art so riveting to reveal as never before how he used preparatory studies to synthesize reality, memory and imagination. Some of his greatest paintings -- ''New York Movie,'' ''Nighthawks'' -- and other gems are here. An overview indicates how the young Hopper shaped and toughened his versatile gifts into a singular vision. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Robert Irwin: Scrim Veil -- Black Rectangle -- Natural Light' (through Sept. 1) Before handing its Breuer building over to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Whitney installs one of the masterpieces of Light and Space, if not all Minimalism: an eye-filling yet barely-there low-tech mirage from 1977 that is spectacular in size, but not in its means. Overseen by the chief curator Donna Salvo, it uses a bit of black paint and some polyester scrim anchored by a gallery-long black aluminum beam; it illuminates the very act of perception by simply riffing on the architecture. 945 Madison Avenue at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'I, YOU, WE' (through Sept. 1) The Whitney's latest collection show (and the last one for the Breuer building before the museum decamps to the meatpacking district) finds artists reacting to AIDS, Reagan-era social policies, urban blight and gentrification, and a stock market boom and bust. Everything here dates from the 1980s and early '90s, otherwise known as the era of identity politics. Included are numerous self-portraits, a room of AIDS-related artworks, and Nan Goldin's 45-minute slide installation ''The Ballad of Sexual Dependency.'' (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Uptown
Luis Molina-Pantin: 'Modus Operandi' (through Aug. 17) Luis Molina-Pantin's photographs of Disneyesque drug-baron mansions in Colombia are standouts in the International Center of Photography's terrific 2013 triennial. In a solo show at Henrique Faria Fine Art we are given a larger context for an artist, based in Caracas, Venezuela, who specializes in images that simultaneously project and undercut illusions of confident social and political power. 35 East 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 517-4609, henriquefaria.com. (Cotter)
'Salvaging the Past: Georges Hoentschel and French Decorative Arts From the Metropolitan Museum of Art' (through Aug. 11) This sometimes arcane but highly effective assemblage of rare furnishings, artifacts and a smattering of art and printed matter resurrects a once-renowned French interior designer whose collections -- and displays -- of 18th-century French decorative material and medieval art were purchased en bloc by J.P. Morgan and given to the Met. They formed the nuclei of the museum's holdings in these areas, helped shape its departmental structure and influenced the arrangement of its galleries. Bard Graduate Center: Decorative Arts, Design History, Material Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3023, bgc.bard.edu. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
Eliot Porter (through Aug. 16) Trained in medicine, the photographer Eliot Porter (1901-90) brought a quiet naturalism to the dye-transfer print, a technique more closely associated with in-your-face colorists like William Eggleston. His muted shots, which have been published in photography books alongside Thoreau's writings, seem to flatten out the landscape without reducing its meditative complexity. (In that, they have much in common with the paintings of his brother, Fairfield Porter). This exhibition of vintage prints, organized by Jack Macrae and Kristoffer Haynes, includes some lush, accomplished and wonderfully unobtrusive images of nesting birds and unruly thickets of foliage. Paula Cooper, 521 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-1105, paulacoopergallery.com. (Rosenberg)
'Reinventing Abstraction: New York Painting in the 1980s' (through Aug. 30) This worthy show reconsiders 15 painters who did not fit into fashionable categories in the 1980s. It includes humorously updated Surrealism by Carroll Dunham and Elizabeth Murray; canny play with Modernist devices by Thomas Nozkowski, Jonathan Lasker, Mary Heilmann and David Reed; botanical imagery by Bill Jensen and Terry Winters; gesture and process by Louise Fishman and Pat Steir; abstracted landscapes by Joan Snyder and Stanley Whitney; and enigmatic symbolism by Gary Stephan, Jack Whitten and Stephen Mueller. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street, (212) 242-7727, cheimread.com. (Johnson)
Galleries: Other
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info/nyevents. (Smith)
'Lat. 41 7' N., Long. 72 19' W' (through Sept. 2) The annual campground-casual show organized by the independent curator Bob Nickas in the Bridgehampton summer home of Jose Martos, an art dealer, and Servane Mary, an artist, was always an odd fit for the fussy, privet-hedged Hamptons. Fortunately, this seasonal event (now in its fourth year) has found a more suitable home on the North Fork, in East Marion, where the couple bought a late-19th-century Victorian on 10 acres abutting the idyllic Dam Pond Maritime Reserve. The show includes many outdoor projects that call attention to the beauty of the landscape. Aaron Suggs's ''Untitled (Transparent Dinghy),'' an almost invisible vessel made of clear acrylic, floats on the pond; nearby, G. William Webb's thin steel hoop frames the water view. Martos Gallery, 12395 Main Road, East Marion, N.Y., (212) 560-0670, martosgallery.com. (Rosenberg)
Public Art
&#x2605; Thomas Hirschhorn: 'Gramsci Monument' (through Sept. 15) With the paid help of local residents, Mr. Hirschhorn has built a scruffy, ramshackle complex out of plywood, two-by-fours, blue tarps, brown tape and plexiglass on the grass outside the Forest Houses apartment complex. Resembling a home for postapocalyptic survivors, it has a library stocked with books of political and social theory; a radio station; a space for producing a daily newspaper; a snack bar; a computer room; and a stage for musical and theatrical performances. Improbably, it is all dedicated to the Italian communist and Marxist philosopher Antonio Gramsci. On the grounds of Forest Houses, Tinton Avenue between 163rd and 165th Streets, Morissania, Bronx; gramsci-monument.com. (Ken Johnson)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
Last Chance
&#x2605; Francis Cape: 'Utopian Benches' (closes next Friday) An artist long preoccupied with the physical and the spiritual aspects of craft and design offers a fascinating excursion into faith-based furniture: 17 meticulous poplar copies of benches built and used in communal, mostly religious societies in North America from the 18th century to the present. Such ''shared seating'' encouraged both community and equality. Here it also forms an illuminating study of joinery, scale, detailing, proportion and comfort -- comprehended almost as much by sitting as by looking. Murray Guy, 453 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-7372, murrayguy.com. (Smith)
'Ecce Homo: Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt and the Art of Rebellion' (closes next Friday) Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt's 2012 career retrospective at MoMA PS1 was a plenitudinous affair, and now, happily, there's more of him at Pavel Zoubok, along with work by several younger gay artists he has, directly or indirectly, influenced, including Nayland Blake, Arch Connelly (1950-93), Tony Feher, Oliver Herring, Christian Holstad, Greer Lankton (1958-96), Hunter Reynolds and Christopher Tanner. Pavel Zoubok Gallery, 531 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 675-7490, pavelzoubok.com. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'As it were ... So to speak: A Museum Collection in Dialogue With Barbara Bloom' (closes on Sunday) Ms. Bloom, invited to organize a show from elements of the museum's collection, has turned to the Talmud for inspiration. Weaving together real and fictional narratives, historical and literary sources, she creates new and often ambiguous contexts for ceremonial and decorative objects like Torah pointers, Kiddush cups and spice containers. Somehow she manages to quote Nietzsche, Freud, Leonard Cohen, Joan Didion, the Bible and various Wikipedia entries, all without losing her own probing, skeptical voice. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Paul McCarthy: 'WS' (closes on Sunday) Paul McCarthy's Swiftian film on (among many other things) Walt Disney's ''Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs'' and the American psyche is nasty, funny, X-rated and seven hours long. The jungle-and-ranch-house set in which it was shot is intact in the Armory's drill hall. No one under 18 will be admitted. Park Avenue Armory, 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street, (212) 616-3930, armoryonpark.org. (Cotter)
Beverly McIver (closes next Friday) Beverly McIver's self-portraiture, her signature mode, is sometimes disarming, other times wearyingly theatrical. In ''Pre-Breast Surgery,'' her most powerful painting, she sits up in a hospital bed naked to the waist, looking down at her large, pendulous breasts, which bear markings for an impending operation. In two more cheerful works, both called ''My New Breasts,'' she smilingly displays her reduced bosom. Betty Cuningham, 541 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-2772, bettycuninghamgallery.com. (Johnson)
'Mind Is Outer Space' (closes on Friday) Starting with a useful (video) lesson in looking at art, this outstanding group show of diverse works by 17 young and youngish artists is full of conundrums: mysterious presences, strange objects and inexplicable juxtapositions as well as abrupt shifts in scale or implication. It moves between mental space and the intergalactic kind, implying that both are equally infinite and unknown, if not continuous, and hangs together beautifully. Casey Kaplan, 525 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 645-6335, caseykaplangallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Claes Oldenburg: The Street and the Store' and 'Claes Oldenburg: Mouse Museum, Ray Gun Wing' (closes on Monday) Pop Art is based on two things: ordinariness and eating. It's about daily consumption; the democratic appetite, ravenous for meat, sweets, life on the street, and getting more of everything, cheap. No artist cooked up a tastier version of the primal Pop recipe than Claes Oldenburg did in New York in the late 1950s and early '60s. The art he made in that brief, fecund time is the focus of a two-meals-for-the-price-of-one MoMA feast. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (closes on Monday) An awareness of the uprisings, protests and revolutions around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
&#x2605; Richard Pettibone: 'Paintings and Sculpture: 1964-2003' (closes next Friday) Mr. Pettibone has devoted his career to making small copies of works by Brancusi, Warhol, Lichtenstein, Stella and other artists whose fame far exceeded his. There is a comical asymmetry between his efforts and theirs, but also something mysterious, as if his were made for a voodoo dollhouse. This excellent show presents about 45 pieces dating from 1964 to 2003. David Nolan, 527 West 29th Street, (212) 925-6190, davidnolangallery.com. (Johnson)
Lucien Samaha: 'The Flight Attendant Years: 1978-1986' (closes on Friday) Lucien Samaha is a founding member of the Arab Image Foundation, a vast photographic repository in Beirut, Lebanon, and the creator of his own one-man database of hundreds of thousands of pictures recording some 30 years of his own life. For his New York solo debut, he has skimmed off pictures from early years of that history when he was a flight attendant for Trans World Airlines. Specimens of social anthropology and period nostalgia, they are relics of an oddly innocent-looking pre-airport-security age. Lombard Freid Projects, 518 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 967-8040, lombard-freid.com. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Rosalind Solomon: 'Portraits in the Time of AIDS, 1988' (closes on Friday) Rosalind Solomon took some critical heat when her exhibition ''Portraits in the Time of AIDS'' opened at New York University's Grey Art Gallery in 1988. Critics viewed her images of people disfigured by Kaposi's sarcoma, or wasting away in hospitals, as opportunistically negative at a time when groups like ACT UP (AIDS Coalition to Release Power) were trying to alter public perception of the disease by exchanging an image of abjection for one of agency. ACT UP's campaign worked brilliantly. But if you want to know what spurred that activism and see what a lot of people in homes and hospitals saw every day in those years, Ms. Solomon's unflinching pictures are where to look. Bruce Silverstein, 535 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-3930, brucesilverstein.com. (Cotter)
'Ten Years' (closes on Friday) This show of 76 artists virtually strains at the seams with artworks and high spirits. Its standouts are too numerous to mention; its resemblance to a diminutive Whitney Biennial is hard to miss. It celebrates the first decade of a gallery that has been consistently fresh and ecumenical. May there be many more. Wallspace, 619 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 594-9478, wallspacegallery.com. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND BROOKLYN MUSEUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CATS (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); CIVIL RIGHTS (52%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



43 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Carmakers in U.S. Report Strongest July Sales Since 2006

BYLINE: By JACLYN TROP

 BODY:
American automakers, buoyed this year by robust sales in pickups, said on Thursday that smaller cars and midsize sedans were helping to spur growth in the industry to levels not seen since before the recession.
General Motors, the nation's largest automaker, posted the largest overall increase, of 16 percent, with double-digit sales growth for all four of its brands -- Chevrolet, Cadillac, G.M.C. and Buick. The Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Group each said sales rose 11 percent last month on the strength of pickups and smaller, more fuel-efficient cars.
Over all, it was the strongest July since 2006 for the industry, with sales rising 14 percent, to 1.3 million vehicles. At that rate, 2013 sales for the industry would be 15.7 million vehicles, up from 14.1 million last year. 
''For G.M., July was the most well-balanced month of the year from a retail sales standpoint; trucks were hot, but so were small cars and family vehicles,'' said Kurt McNeil, vice president for G.M.'s United States sales operations. ''Our experience shows that the difference between good sales and great sales in a slow-growth economy is how many new products you have to offer, and we are starting to hit our sweet spot.''
G.M. reported healthy sales of both 2013 models and 2014 models, especially of the newly redesigned Chevrolet Silverado pickup and the Impala midsize sedan.
With new styling and the chance to get a lower price on an older model, ''you're really attracting a broad range of customers into the showroom,'' said Donald Johnson, G.M.'s vice president for Chevrolet sales and service.
Sales of the Impala rose 38 percent, helped by its No. 1 ranking last week in Consumer Reports. It was the first time in 20 years that the magazine had given an American sedan the top spot.
''This is the segment I love to watch,'' said Michelle Krebs of Edmunds.com. ''It is such a vicious battlefield, and an important one, as it is the biggest single segment in the business.''
Toyota said its sales rose 17 percent, while Honda reported an increase of 21 percent and Nissan 11 percent. Volkswagen was the only brand to report a drop in sales, of 3.3 percent.
As in recent months, pickups were especially popular in July as a recovery in housing and energy, coupled with pent-up demand, drew shoppers into dealerships, the automakers said.
Sales for G.M.'s trucks rose 44 percent. Ford said its F-Series sales rose 23 percent, and Chrysler's Ram brand reported a 31 percent sales increase.
Shoppers also sought out small cars as they downsized and put more emphasis on fuel efficiency, said Erich Merkle, Ford's United States sales analyst.
Sales of Ford's small cars, including the Focus, the Fiesta and the C-Max, rose 32 percent for the best month since 2000. G.M. said that sales of the Cruze compact rose 70 percent, and Chrysler said that the Dodge Dart, with 6,064 sold, was a bright spot for the company.
''Baby boomers are becoming empty nesters and their need for size isn't quite what it used to be,'' Mr. Merkle said.
He added that younger customers who were looking to buy their first new car were opting for smaller models.
Ford would have sold more of its midsize Fusion sedan and Escape utility vehicle if not for an inventory shortage. The automaker is increasing capacity at its plants in the fall.
Though sales for the midsize segment were expected to be up over all for the year, the industry had some mixed results, said Alec Gutierrez, senior analyst at Kelley Blue Book.
''The Honda Accord, Nissan Altima and Toyota Camry each enjoyed solid growth this month, while the Chevrolet Malibu, Ford Fusion and Chrysler 200 saw year-over-year declines,'' Mr. Gutierrez said. ''The Fusion has been limited by low inventory, while the Malibu and 200 are each awaiting updates that should help to drive additional demand.''
The Chrysler Group said that sales of its Fiat and Jeep brands held steady at 2 percent as it prepared to unveil the new Jeep Cherokee later this year. Dodge sales rose 18 percent, led by the Durango utility vehicle and the Dart, while sales for the Chrysler brand fell 4 percent last month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chevrolet Cruze
Ford Fusion CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SEDANS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



44 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: New York Scrutinizes Bank Account Blacklists

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
New York's top prosecutor is investigating some of the nation's largest banks in connection with their use of credit-reporting databases that disqualify people seeking to open checking or savings accounts -- an inquiry that has gained urgency as the ranks of the unbanked has swelled in the aftermath of the financial crisis.
The New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, sent a batch of letters seeking information to six banks on Thursday, including Bank of America, Citibank and JPMorgan Chase, people briefed on the matter said. 
The inquiry on Thursday is playing out as a growing number of banks and credit unions tap into the vast repositories of information -- a record of banking transgressions including bounced checks, overdrawn accounts and fees -- to guard against risky customers and protect against fraud.
But consumer advocates and state authorities say the databases are disproportionately affecting lower-income Americans, whose precarious financial footing makes them more likely to end up in the databases for relatively small financial errors like amassing fees or bungling a monthly budget.
Concerned that banks might be ''improperly denying or otherwise restricting banking access to New York consumers,'' Mr. Schneiderman's office is requesting more information about the use of the databases, zeroing in, for example, on how the lenders decide whether to accept a customer, according to copies of the letters reviewed by The New York Times.
Negative reports in the databases have effectively banished more than a million lower-income Americans from the financial system, relegating them to a second-class tier in which they are forced to use costly fringe operations to pay bills or cash a check, according to interviews with financial counselors, consumer lawyers and more than two dozen low-income people in California, Illinois, Florida, New York and Washington.
The ranks of those without bank accounts has ballooned -- up more than 10 percent since 2009, according to the most recent estimates from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
The databases, Mr. Schneiderman's office said, could especially harm ''African-Americans, Latinos and other minority groups,'' a potential violation of state and federal laws governing equal access to credit.
Use of the databases and the problems associated with them were the subject of an article in The Times on Wednesday.
JPMorgan said that a single negative mark in ChexSystems, the largest database, would typically not present a hurdle for someone looking to obtain an account. Others, like Bank of America and Citibank, have said that they cull the information in the databases prudently, discerning between people who have willfully committed fraud and those whose records are marred only by small mistakes.
Some banks have introduced second-chance checking accounts for people who may not qualify for traditional bank accounts. The databases, the banks say, are an important tool to root out fraud, a problem that continues to bedevil them. Losses from fraud on new bank accounts doubled from 2011 to 2012, according to Javelin Strategy and Research, surging to $9.8 billion last year.
People ensnared in the databases say it can be tough to correct inaccurate information or obtain a copy of the report, a requirement under a federal law aimed at diminishing the flow of inaccurate consumer information.
Mr. Schneiderman requested that banks detail the processes in place for consumers to dispute inaccurate information, the people said. His office is also requesting ZIP code-level data for every customer denied an account as a result of the databases from Feb. 1 to July 1 of this year, the people said.
The banks have until Tuesday to schedule a time to meet with the attorney general's office to further discuss the matter.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); BUDGETS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CREDIT UNIONS (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (64%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (64%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



45 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: The Neocon Revival

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
They say you can define what kind of conservative a person is by what year they want to go back to. Some conservatives, apparently including some in Senator Rand Paul's office, want to go back to the 1850s. They believe that Abraham Lincoln helped put us on the path to the leviathan state. Many other conservatives want to go back to the 1890s. They think Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson and the other Progressives set us on that course.
But, in the 1980s, when conservatism was at its most politically and intellectually vibrant, the dominant voices in the movement celebrated Lincoln, the Progressive Era and even the New Deal. 
The kind of conservatism that Irving Kristol embodied was cheerful and at peace with modern America. The political heroes for this kind of conservatism, Kristol wrote, ''tend to be T.R., F.D.R. and Ronald Reagan. Such Republican and conservative worthies as Calvin Coolidge, Herbert Hoover, Dwight Eisenhower and Barry Goldwater are politely overlooked.''
These conservatives, Kristol continued, reject the idea that the United States is on the road to serfdom. They ''do not feel that kind of alarm or anxiety about the growth of the state in the past century, seeing it as natural, indeed inevitable. ... People have always preferred strong government to weak government, though they certainly have no liking for anything that smacks of intrusive government.''
The conservatism that Kristol was referring to is neoconservatism. Neocons came in for a lot of criticism during the Iraq war, but neoconservatism was primarily a domestic policy movement. Conservatism was at its peak when the neocons were dominant and nearly every problem with the Republican Party today could be cured by a neocon revival.
Kristol and others argued that the G.O.P. floundered because it never accepted the welfare state. ''The idea of a welfare state is in itself perfectly consistent with conservative political philosophy,'' he argued. In a capitalist society, people need government aid. ''They need such assistance; they demand it; they will get it. The only interesting political question is: How will they get it.''
As Richard John Neuhaus and Peter Berger wrote in a famous essay on mediating structures and public policy, ''The modern welfare state is here to stay, indeed ... it ought to expand the benefits it provides.''
Neuhaus and Berger were arguing for the mobilization of more religious and community groups. Others wanted structural reforms. ''Such reforms,'' Kristol added, ''would include, of course, Social Security, unemployment insurance, some form of national health insurance, some kind of family assistance plan, etc.''
The crucial issue for the health of the nation, in this view, is not the size of government; it is the character of the people. Neocons opposed government programs that undermined personal responsibility and community cohesion, but they supported those programs that reinforced them or which had no effect.
Neocons put values at the center of their governing philosophy, but their social policy was neither morally laissez-faire like the libertarians nor explicitly religious like some social conservatives. Neocons mostly sought policies that would encourage self-discipline. ''In almost every area of public concern, we are seeking to induce persons to act virtuously, whether as schoolchildren, applicants for public assistance, would-be lawbreakers, or voters and public officials,'' James Q. Wilson wrote.
How would they know if programs induced virtue? Empirically. ''Neoconservatives, accordingly, place a lot of stock in applied social science research, especially the sort that evaluates old programs and tests new ones,'' Wilson added.
Nobody would call George F. Will a neocon, but, in 1983, he published a superb book called ''Statecraft as Soulcraft.'' It championed the sort of governing conservatism that was common then and is impermissible now. ''It is generally considered obvious that government should not, indeed cannot, legislate morality. But, in fact, it does so, frequently; it should do so more often,'' Will wrote.
He was not calling for a theocracy. He was calling for ''strong government conservatism,'' for a limited but energetic government that could cultivate the best in persons by educating the passions. ''American conservatives are caught in the web of their careless antigovernment rhetoric,'' he concluded.
In recent years, people like Kristol, Wilson and Reagan have been celebrated even though many of their ideas could no longer get a hearing in many conservative precincts. The Republican Party is drifting back to a place where it appears hostile to the basic pillars of the welfare state: to food stamps, for example. This will make the party what it was before the neocon infusion, a 43 percent party in national elections, rejected by minorities and the economically insecure.
The solution is not to go back to 1980. It's to imagine what kind of values Americans should have, and what kind of limited but energetic government can reinforce those values.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (96%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); RELIGION (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); RAND PAUL (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



46 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Kidnapper in Cleveland Is Sentenced by Judge And Condemned by Victim

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL; Timothy Williams and Emma G. Fitzsimmons contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
CLEVELAND -- Three months after her rescue from a quiet house where she had been held captive for a decade along with two other women, Michelle Knight, 31, confronted her abductor, Ariel Castro, 53, in a courtroom here on Thursday, offering an emotional last act to a traumatizing story.
''I cried every night, I was so alone,'' said Ms. Knight, who was 21 when Mr. Castro enticed her into his home in 2002 with the offer of a puppy for her young son. ''Days never got shorter. Days turned into nights, nights turned into days. The years turned into eternity.'' 
Ms. Knight, who was held longer than the other women and was the only one who offered a statement at Mr. Castro's sentencing, told him: ''You took 11 years of my life away. I spent 11 years in hell. Now your hell is just beginning.''
A tiny woman with auburn hair, Ms. Knight let tears run freely while speaking of how her bonds with the other kidnapped women, Amanda Berry and Gina DeJesus, gave her a sliver of hope. ''We said we would someday make it out alive, and we did,'' Ms. Knight said.
Mr. Castro, an unemployed bus driver, looked on without expression. Judge Michael J. Russo of Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court sentenced him to life in prison without possibility of parole, and 1,000 years. The punishment was the result of a plea deal between Mr. Castro and prosecutors that allowed him to avoid a possible death sentence.
In a rambling statement of his own, Mr. Castro denied that he was violent or had ever raped or beaten Ms. Knight or the other women. ''People are trying to portray me as a monster and I'm not a monster, I'm just sick,'' he said.
The Cuyahoga County prosecutor, Timothy J. McGinty, told the court that experts had found no indication that Mr. Castro was mentally ill, adding that his effort to blame others, including the victims, was evidence of a lack of remorse that merited the maximum prison sentence.
New details of how the women were abducted, imprisoned and managed to endure emerged in a sentencing memo, and at the four-hour hearing on Thursday, which was shown live by cable television, reflecting the worldwide attention the case has drawn.
All three victims were acquaintances of Mr. Castro's children. He attended vigils on the anniversaries of the women's disappearances, brought home a ''missing'' poster as a trophy and showed the women television coverage of their grieving families.
He kidnapped Ms. Knight when he overheard her asking for directions at a Family Dollar store and offered her a ride, which she said she accepted because she knew his daughter. Once inside his home on Seymour Avenue on Cleveland's West Side, he tied her with an extension cord and dragged her to the basement, where he forced a motorcycle helmet over her head before raping her, said Detective Andy Harasimchuk of the Cleveland police's sex crimes unit.
Eight months later, in April 2003, Mr. Castro abducted Ms. Berry, then 16. He offered her a ride to his house with the promise of meeting his daughter, whom she knew. He chained her to a pole in the basement.
Ms. DeJesus, his third victim, was 14 when Mr. Castro enticed her into his car in 2004 by asking for her help in finding his daughter, who was a friend of Ms. DeJesus'.
Sheriff's deputies displayed a model of Mr. Castro's home that from one angle looked as innocent as a doll house. But turned around, it was used to illustrate a chamber of horrors. Mr. Castro sealed windows with closet doors and heavy drapes. The women were locked in two rooms on the second floor, sometimes restrained by chains. Mr. Castro fed them a single meal a day and forced them to use plastic toilets in their rooms, according to the sentencing report.
He kept them ''in a state of powerlessness,'' prosecutors said, ''through a program of prolonged physical, sexual and psychological violence.'' As punishment he would confine them in the cold basement or the sweltering attic.
A psychiatrist, Dr. Frank Ochberg, testified that the women suffered post-traumatic stress disorder, ''the kind of trauma that you don't escape for years and sometimes for a lifetime.''
Ms. DeJesus and Ms. Berry, who did not appear in court, were represented by family members who read statements on their behalf. Ms. Berry's sister, Beth Serrano, asked for privacy so that the 6-year-old daughter Ms. Berry delivered in captivity, fathered by Mr. Castro, would not learn of the circumstances of her birth in the news media.
''Amanda could not control a lot of things for a long time,'' Ms. Serrano said. ''Please let her control this.''
Craig Weintraub, one of Mr. Castro's lawyers, said that his client had lived a ''double life'' for 10 years and had accepted responsibility for his crimes. Mr. Weintraub also said that Mr. Castro has a mental illness, although that condition had not interfered with Mr. Castro's ability to understand the plea agreement he signed.
For years, Mr. Castro was able to present to friends and family an outward appearance of normalcy. He insisted that he was neither evil nor violent but that he had been a victim of childhood sexual abuse and had become addicted to pornography.
''Most of the sex that went on in the house, and probably all of it, was consensual,'' he claimed.
Twice he said, ''There was harmony in our home.''
But Judge Russo offered a sharp rebuke: ''I'm not sure there's anyone in America who will agree with you.''
Ms. Knight, whose disappearance was not publicized because she was partly estranged from her family, said Mr. Castro tormented her by telling her no one cared she was missing. ''After 11 years, I am finally being heard and it's liberating,'' she said.
She told him she wanted him to endure a life sentence in prison rather than face the death penalty. ''I will live on,'' she said. ''You will die a little every day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michelle Knight, speaking Thursday at the sentencing of her kidnapper, Ariel Castro, said: ''You took 11 years of my life away. I spent 11 years in hell.'' He was sentenced to life in prison and 1,000 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON JOSEFCZYK/REUTERS) (A10)
 The women were restrained to a pole in the basement in the early stages of captivity. A ''significant amount'' of cash was found in the laundry machine. (PHOTOGRAPH OF THE MODEL BY AP) (A11) GRAPHIC: Inside the House of Captivity: Prosecutors on Thursday used a model of Ariel Castro's house to illustrate how he held three women captive for 10 years. Special Agent Andrew Burke of the F.B.I. testified that modifications had been made to ''fortify certain areas.'' (Source: F.B.I.) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (92%); SENTENCING (92%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); PRISONS (86%); TESTIMONY (77%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (74%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (73%); FAMILY (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); CAPITAL CRIMES (73%); PAROLE (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); MENTAL ILLNESS (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



47 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Increased Factory Activity May Bolster U.S. Recovery

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- American factories revved up production, hired more workers and received a surge of new orders in July, helping them expand at the fastest pace in two years. The gains suggest that manufacturing is rebounding and could provide a spark to economic growth. 
The Institute for Supply Management said on Thursday that its index of factory activity jumped to 55.4 percent in July from 50.9 percent in June. A reading above 50 percent indicates growth. The I.S.M. is a trade group of purchasing managers.
A gauge of production soared 11.6 points to 65 percent, the highest reading since May 2004. And a measure of hiring at factories rose to its best level in a year -- the latest of several encouraging signs ahead of the July employment report, which will be released on Friday.
''The report builds the case for a second-half speedup in U.S. industrial production,'' said Jonathan Basile, an economist at Credit Suisse.
Stronger growth at American factories could aid a sluggish economy that has registered tepid growth over the last three quarters. And it could provide crucial support to a job market that has begun to accelerate but has added mostly lower-paying service jobs.
Businesses are placing more orders that are likely to be filled in the next few months. Steady gains in new-home sales and construction are supporting strong growth in industries like wood products, furniture and electrical equipment and appliances. And healthy auto sales are lifting growth in the production of metal parts and components.
Bradley Holcomb, chairman of the institute's survey committee, said production would probably fall back a bit after its big jump in July. Some of the gain reflects a reduction in backlogged orders, he said.
Still, the big increase in new orders suggests that output growth will remain steady.
The Federal Reserve is likely to take note of the manufacturing gains. It downgraded slightly its assessment of the economy after its policy meeting this week. That led to speculation that the Fed might continue its bond purchases longer than anticipated.
But Fed officials say they are hopeful that growth will pick up in the second half of the year. And if factories continue to strengthen and add more high-paying jobs, the Fed might become convinced that the economy is on the right track. If so, it could reduce the pace of its bond-buying program later this year. The bond purchases have helped keep long-term interest rates low to encourage more borrowing and spending.
The health of the job market is crucial to the Fed's decision. Other reports this week have been encouraging.
The Labor Department said the number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits fell last week to a five-and-a-half-year low. Applications are a proxy for layoffs. When layoffs decline, it suggests companies are confident in their staffing levels and may add more workers.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



48 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: A Republican Case for Climate Action

BYLINE: By WILLIAM D. RUCKELSHAUS, LEE M. THOMAS, WILLIAM K. REILLY and CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN. 
The writers are former administrators of the Environmental Protection Agency: William D. Ruckelshaus, from its founding in 1970 to 1973, and again from 1983 to 1985; Lee M. Thomas, from 1985 to 1989; William K. Reilly, from 1989 to 1993; and Christine Todd Whitman, from 2001 to 2003.

 BODY:
EACH of us took turns over the past 43 years running the Environmental Protection Agency. We served Republican presidents, but we have a message that transcends political affiliation: the United States must move now on substantive steps to curb climate change, at home and internationally.
There is no longer any credible scientific debate about the basic facts: our world continues to warm, with the last decade the hottest in modern records, and the deep ocean warming faster than the earth's atmosphere. Sea level is rising. Arctic Sea ice is melting years faster than projected. 
The costs of inaction are undeniable. The lines of scientific evidence grow only stronger and more numerous. And the window of time remaining to act is growing smaller: delay could mean that warming becomes ''locked in.''
A market-based approach, like a carbon tax, would be the best path to reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, but that is unachievable in the current political gridlock in Washington. Dealing with this political reality, President Obama's June climate action plan lays out achievable actions that would deliver real progress. He will use his executive powers to require reductions in the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by the nation's power plants and spur increased investment in clean energy technology, which is inarguably the path we must follow to ensure a strong economy along with a livable climate.
The president also plans to use his regulatory power to limit the powerful warming chemicals known as hydrofluorocarbons and encourage the United States to join with other nations to amend the Montreal Protocol to phase out these chemicals. The landmark international treaty, which took effect in 1989, already has been hugely successful in solving the ozone problem.
Rather than argue against his proposals, our leaders in Congress should endorse them and start the overdue debate about what bigger steps are needed and how to achieve them -- domestically and internationally.
As administrators of the E.P.A under Presidents Richard M. Nixon, Ronald Reagan, George Bush and George W. Bush, we held fast to common-sense conservative principles -- protecting the health of the American people, working with the best technology available and trusting in the innovation of American business and in the market to find the best solutions for the least cost.
That approach helped us tackle major environmental challenges to our nation and the world: the pollution of our rivers, dramatized when the Cuyahoga River in Cleveland caught fire in 1969; the hole in the ozone layer; and the devastation wrought by acid rain.
The solutions we supported worked, although more must be done. Our rivers no longer burn, and their health continues to improve. The United States led the world when nations came together to phase out ozone-depleting chemicals. Acid rain diminishes each year, thanks to a pioneering, market-based emissions-trading system adopted under the first President Bush in 1990. And despite critics' warnings, our economy has continued to grow.
Climate change puts all our progress and our successes at risk. If we could articulate one framework for successful governance, perhaps it should be this: When confronted by a problem, deal with it. Look at the facts, cut through the extraneous, devise a workable solution and get it done.
We can have both a strong economy and a livable climate. All parties know that we need both. The rest of the discussion is either detail, which we can resolve, or purposeful delay, which we should not tolerate.
Mr. Obama's plan is just a start. More will be required. But we must continue efforts to reduce the climate-altering pollutants that threaten our planet. The only uncertainty about our warming world is how bad the changes will get, and how soon. What is most clear is that there is no time to waste.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OZONE DEPLETION (89%); ACID RAIN (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); POWER PLANTS (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); RIVERS (63%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



49 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg. 

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Push to Slash Food Stamps Puts Farm Bill in Jeopardy

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A plan by House leaders to cut $40 billion from the food stamp program -- twice the amount of cuts proposed in a House bill that failed in June -- threatens to derail efforts by the House and Senate to work together to complete a farm bill before agriculture programs expire on Sept. 30. 
The bill that would double cuts previously sought by House Republicans was announced Thursday by Representative Frank D. Lucas, Republican of Oklahoma and chairman of House Agriculture Committee, during a lunch with lobbyists, and first reported by Reuters.
Representative Eric Cantor Republican of Virginia, the House majority leader, said a vote on the deeper food stamp cuts would take place before meeting with senators to iron out the differences between the House and Senate farm bills.
The Senate passed its version in May. The House approved its bill last month but did not include the food stamps program, after a vote on a comprehensive farm bill failed in June.
The June bill included $20.5 billion in proposed cuts to the food stamp program, plus amendments calling for mandatory drugs tests for recipients and employment requirements. Democrats protested the food stamp cuts, while many Republicans said the cuts did not go deep enough.
Mr. Lucas said the new proposal, which was drafted by a Republican work group, would include the drug test and work requirements.
In a conference call with reporters on Thursday, Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan and the chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, blasted the deeper cuts and what she called roadblocks to getting a farm bill passed before programs expire in September.
''It makes no sense to continue to see political gamesmanship that is going on that is blocking us from getting a farm bill,'' Ms. Stabenow said, specifically mentioning Mr. Cantor.
''There is not a lot of time left,'' she said.
The announcement about deeper cuts to the food stamp program came a day after the Health Impact Project, a Washington research group, found that 5.1 million people would lose their benefits under the previously proposed cuts in the House bill including nearly a half million food stamp recipients who already struggle to get enough food, the group said.
Even without the proposed cuts, food stamp beneficiaries are facing cuts.
A report released Thursday by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, which studies federal spending, found that the 47 million people who currently receive food stamps will see their benefits reduced in November because of an expiring provision in the stimulus bill passed in 2009 by a Democratic-controlled Congress.
The stimulus law provided a slight boost in benefits for all food stamp recipients as part of a bill to strengthen the economy and ease hardship on millions of unemployed workers.
According to the center's report, beginning Nov. 1, a family of three will see a reduction of about $29 a month -- $319 for the remaining 11 months of the next fiscal year. The report said the cut would result in an average of less than $1.40 per person, per meal.
''These cuts will be particularly painful for the many families who struggle to have enough to eat at the end of each month even with SNAP assistance,'' said Stacy Dean, vice president for food assistance policy at the center and an author of the report, referring to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (91%)

PERSON: DEBBIE STABENOW (77%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); FRANK D LUCAS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



50 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Obama Narrows Field for Fed Chairman to 3

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY; Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- This week, in a closed-door meeting of Congressional Democrats with President Obama, Representative Ed Perlmutter of Colorado bluntly said what has been on many politicians' minds: ''Larry Summers. Bad choice.''
Mr. Obama was visibly annoyed and mounted a defense of Mr. Summers, his former economic policy adviser who also served as Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton. Mr. Summers, who the president said had become something of a ''progressive whipping boy,'' appears to be a strong contender to succeed Ben S. Bernanke as chairman of the Federal Reserve.
With the vigorous attacks on Mr. Summers that have erupted in recent days, now his supporters are engaged in a more public campaign to smooth his knotty reputation as being not just brilliant but also bullheaded and brusque.
''It's my experience, and the experience of a lot of people, that he's a great person to work with,'' said Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, who worked with Mr. Summers at the Treasury Department and the World Bank. 
Mr. Obama is now in the process of interviewing three candidates for the position at the helm of the central bank: Mr. Summers; Janet L. Yellen, the vice chairwoman at the Federal Reserve, who had generally been considered the front-runner for the job; and a dark horse for the post, Donald L. Kohn, a former Fed vice chairman.
In his meeting on Capitol Hill, Mr. Obama stressed that he had not yet made up his mind. People close to the process said the White House is trying to tamp down on the feverish speculation that the race had come down to Mr. Summers and Ms. Yellen and deflect some of the attacks on Mr. Summers.
One early candidate for Fed chairman was Timothy F. Geithner, the former Treasury secretary and Obama confidante, insiders said. The White House approached Mr. Geithner to ask if he would be considered for the job, but he declined.
Amy Brundage, a White House spokeswoman, declined to comment about the administration's personnel policy.
Perhaps no economic official in recent years has a more divergent reputation within the White House and outside of it than Mr. Summers. And it is his reputation among economic policy staff members that might ultimately secure him Mr. Obama's nod.
''You can't find a member of the economic team who is for anyone but Larry,'' said a person close to the administration who declined to talk on the record before Mr. Obama makes his decision. ''That's true at Treasury, that's true at the White House. The reason is, Larry has been through this. Larry brings the right skills to bear here.''
By contrast, Mr. Summers's detractors have expressed abject shock that he might be considered for the position. They describe him as an abrasive interlocutor who can be dismissive of ideas, and people, he considers not up to snuff. They also note his arguments for deregulation of parts of the financial industry in the 1990s, and ties to and paychecks from Wall Street today.
Sheila C. Bair, the former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, publicly argued in a recent commentary on CNN/Money that Mr. Obama should pick Ms. Yellen, because ''unlike Larry Summers, Tim Geithner and other Bob Rubin minions frequently mentioned in the financial press as potential Bernanke successors, she was not part of the deregulatory cabal that got us into the 2008 financial crisis.'' Dozens of Democratic members of Congress have publicly thrown their weight behind Ms. Yellen, including House minority leader Nancy Pelosi of California and the Senate's second-ranking Democrat, Richard Durbin of Illinois.
But Mr. Summers's supporters, many of whom are in or have the ear of the White House, have pushed back on those objections.
Mr. Summers has long wanted the Fed position, and smarted after being passed over in favor of Mr. Bernanke, who was renominated for a second four-year term in 2009. He was also floated as a potential World Bank president in 2012, but the administration ultimately chose the physician Jim Yong Kim.
Several former colleagues said they felt that Mr. Summers's reputation as being difficult to work with has been overblown. During his time in the White House, Mr. Summers openly clashed with a few colleagues, including Christina Romer, the chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Peter Orszag, the budget director.
But many officials who enjoyed working with Mr. Summers remain in prominent positions within the White House. Those include Gene Sperling, the current head of the National Economic Council, the position Mr. Summers occupied for the first years of the Obama administration; Brian Deese, deputy director of the budget office; and Jason Furman, who won Senate confirmation on Thursday to become chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
Others agreed that Mr. Summers could at times be brusque, but that he also welcomed being challenged.
''His favorite line is 'Tell me why I'm wrong,' '' said Stuart E. Eizenstat, a former deputy Treasury secretary. Ms. Sandberg echoed that anecdote, recalling how Mr. Summers would ask his colleagues at Treasury to come up with the strongest argument against their own ideas.
People close to White House officials said that many of them considered Mr. Summers perhaps the most brilliant economic policy mind of his generation. One former member of the White House economic team has even taken to using a certain shorthand to denote someone of truly superior intellect: ''Larry-smart.''
His deep understanding of the economy, concern with unemployment and ability to manage complexity and crisis would make him a stellar Fed chairman, they argue, also noting how much Mr. Obama likes how Mr. Summers's mind works.
''There's going to be an international crisis at some point, and he's the guy you want in the room,'' said an economic policy expert who declined to comment on the record.
Mr. Summers set himself apart as an economic thinker among Mr. Obama's advisers and staff members during the 2008 campaign, former colleagues said.
''Larry had a very good way of synthesizing information, boiling it down to what it all meant and what the consequences were for the economy,'' said Stephanie Cutter, who worked on both Obama campaigns. ''Larry was the only one who had been through a financial crisis before,'' she added. ''He was speaking from a place of authority.''
White House insiders said that Mr. Summers's firsthand management of the Asian financial crises, and the influence of his ideas managing the downturn in 2009, made them more confident at his ability to handle problems that might confront the American economy in the next few years.
''If I were confident that we were going to get a smooth recovery that is faster than it has been in the past few years, Janet, with her ability to manage consensus, would be a better choice,'' said J. Bradford DeLong, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who worked with Mr. Summers in the Treasury Department in the 1990s and has written academic papers with him.
''But it's a strange and complicated world, in which creativity and the ability to think outside of the box might be more necessary and a Fed headed by Larry might be more successful than one headed by Janet,'' Mr. DeLong said.
Among academics, Mr. Summers was already considered one of the finest economists of his generation before joining public life. He is an ''economist's economist,'' said Lawrence Katz, a Harvard professor who has written several papers with Mr. Summers.
''There wasn't one idea or one subject where he spent 20 years thinking about it to write one great paper or one great book,'' he added. ''He has 55 really good ideas, on monetary economics, on tax, on savings, on investment, on unemployment. Those papers stood the test of time; we still teach them even though he hasn't written an academic paper for 20 years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lawrence H. Summers, President Obama's former economic policy adviser, is on the interview list. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
Donald L. Kohn (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS)
 Janet L. Yellen (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE HOSHIKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (66%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); SHERYL SANDBERG (76%); ED PERLMUTTER (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



51 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Jobs and Taxes

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Job creation and tax reform are two major challenges that have gone unmet as Congressional Republicans have serially obstructed the Obama administration's agenda.
On Tuesday, President Obama attempted to break the logjam on both fronts. In a nod to Republican wishes, he said he would agree to a stand-alone package of corporate tax reforms. In exchange, he wants to use temporary proceeds from the reform for job-creation programs. The offer is a change from his previous stance that corporate tax reform should be part of a larger plan to reduce the deficit by raising taxes on high-income individuals.
A spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner quickly dismissed the offer as ''the opposite of a concession.'' 
It is, in fact, a real compromise -- and a potentially dangerous one. If Congress takes him up on it, Mr. Obama will have to be remarkably adept to avoid pitfalls in the proposal. The immediate danger is that he will be tempted to position his proposal as a trade-off for Republican cooperation on raising the nation's debt limit later this year. But upfront overtures would only encourage Republicans to engage in a fiscal showdown over the debt limit -- and to demand even more in terms of tax and spending cuts to call off their hostage-taking.
The other danger is that while the proposal would raise money for useful purposes in the short run, it would amount to an unjustified corporate giveaway in the longer term. The plan correctly acknowledges that many corporate tax reforms -- including changes in the accounting for inventory -- raise revenue only temporarily, as businesses transition to the new system. Mr. Obama did not say how much revenue he expected to raise, but roughly $90 billion would be required to pay for his job-creation programs over time -- a modest sum compared with corporate profits, infrastructure needs and the costs of high unemployment.
Over time, however, the proposal is meant to be ''revenue neutral'' -- that is, to raise no more in corporate taxes than is raised under current law. Yet what the nation needs, going forward, is more revenue -- to care for the aged, improve education and infrastructure, develop clean energy and tackle the deficit. If corporate tax increases are off the table, those needs will go unmet or a disproportionate share of needed revenue will have to come from individual taxpayers.
Mr. Obama also proposes to reduce the top corporate rate from 35 percent to 28 percent, to be paid for by reducing or ending corporate tax breaks. That is fine in theory but difficult in practice, and especially so because neither the president nor anyone in Congress has specified which tax breaks would be curbed to pay for lower rates.
Similarly, the proposal calls for a minimum corporate tax on foreign earnings of American companies, which could be a step toward greater fairness but stops short of ending the damaging practice whereby companies defer tax on foreign profits until the cash is repatriated to the United States. The proposal does not say what the minimum tax would be. Any repatriation at less than the proposed top rate of 28 percent would encourage companies to keep stashing profits abroad.
The president's proposal would indeed pay for some important job-creation programs. The hard part is ensuring that meeting near-term needs does not foreclose fair and adequate taxation in the future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX REFORM (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); FUNDRAISING (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



52 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Italian Court Upholds Berlusconi Sentence, Setting Stage for Crisis

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO; Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting from Rome, and Gaia Pianigiani from Siena, Italy.

 BODY:
ROME -- For years, former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi deftly navigated the labyrinth of Italian justice, always finding an exit -- until Thursday, when Italy's highest court handed him his first definitive sentence, upholding a prison term for tax fraud and sending Italy's fragile government on the road to crisis.
The court called for a re-examination of a ban on Mr. Berlusconi's holding public office, but did not reject the ban. This staved off the imminent collapse of the right-left coalition of Prime Minister Enrico Letta, which was formed to tackle Italy's dire economy -- but probably only bought it more time. 
Parts of Mr. Letta's center-left Democratic Party are reluctant to share power with a now-convicted criminal. Meanwhile, the center-right People of Liberty party looked poised to split between Berlusconi loyalists and those seeking more independence from the former prime minister in a future bloc.
''The barometer signals a very strong storm,'' said Giovanni Orsina, professor of contemporary history at LUISS Guido Carli and author of ''Understanding Berlusconi.'' ''I expect a lot of quake tremors in the next few days, but I think that the government will survive.''
The Court of Cassation confirmed Mr. Berlusconi's four-year prison sentence, which had already been reduced to one year under a law aimed at combating prison overcrowding.
Two lower courts had convicted Mr. Berlusconi and other defendants on charges of buying the rights to broadcast American movies on his Mediaset networks through a series of offshore companies and falsely declaring how much they paid to avoid taxes.
In other cases over the past 20 years, Mr. Berlusconi, a three-time prime minister, has been convicted of tax evasion, buying judges and embezzlement, but was either acquitted on appeal or the statute of limitations had run out. (A trial in which Mr. Berlusconi is accused of paying for sex with a minor is continuing.)
Thursday's ruling, like everything about Mr. Berlusconi, polarized Italy. Some of the former prime minister's loyalists called it the equivalent of a judicial coup d'tat, while his critics called it tantamount to Al Capone being convicted of tax evasion.
After the ruling, a furious, saddened and uncharacteristically unsmiling Mr. Berlusconi took to the airwaves of Rete4, one of the channels in his Mediaset empire, and declared his innocence, attacking the magistrates who he said had tormented him for 20 years and become an antidemocratic force within Italy.
''The sentence is absolutely groundless and violates my personal liberty and my rights,'' Mr. Berlusconi said.
The man who once called himself ''the politician most persecuted by prosecutors in the entire history of the world throughout the ages,'' added that he would once again create Forza Italia, the party he founded in 1994. He had dissolved that party to form People of Liberty with another right-wing party. ''Long live Italy, long live Forza Italia,'' he concluded.
Mr. Berlusconi is widely seen as wanting to stay in public office in the hope of wielding the political influence he needs to protect his business interests.
Thursday's ruling did not automatically send Mr. Berlusconi to prison or house arrest. It is up to the same appeals court in Milan that convicted him to formally request his arrest. Mr. Berlusconi's lawyers can also request a suspended sentence.
Experts said that considering his age, 76, Mr. Berlusconi would more likely face house arrest or community service than prison.
Opposition politicians immediately called for Mr. Berlusconi to resign from Parliament.
Vito Crimi, a member of Parliament from the Five Star Movement of Beppe Grillo, called it ''shameful'' that Mr. Berlusconi would stay in public office.
In other circumstances, the ruling might have dealt a final blow to Mr. Berlusconi's role in politics. But today Mr. Berlusconi, who came back from the dead in national elections in February, is an element of stability in the coalition government.
The government was formed to help put Italy's economy back on track. Unemployment is 12 percent, rising to 39 percent for young people, and the national debt is close to 130 percent of gross domestic product, the second highest in the euro zone after Greece. But the government has chosen to delay a series of decisions on hot-button issues like taxes.
Even as political analysts said they did not expect the government to fall, if only because of a lack of clear political alternatives, they also said the coalition would not escape unscathed. ''It's very hard that the broad coalition government can go ahead as if nothing happened,'' said Stefano Folli, a political columnist for the business newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore.
President Giorgio Napolitano, who would have to decide whether to call new elections if the coalition unraveled, urged calm. ''The country needs to rediscover serenity and cohesion on vitally important institutional matters which have for too long seen it divided and unable to enact reforms,'' he said in a statement.
Paolo Flores d'Arcais, the editor of the left-wing monthly magazine MicroMega, said that the Democratic Party would ''pretend nothing happened,'' because its leaders had already chosen to govern with Mr. Berlusconi, even if its base had not.
''For the left it doesn't mean anything because the left doesn't exist,'' he said. ''If Italy were a normal country, it would obviously be a new chapter. But if Italy were a normal country this would never have happened because Berlusconi wasn't electable.''
Many Italians were unsurprised by the ruling.
''After dozens of trials, it was probable that he must have done something,'' said Massimo Dolce, a restaurant owner in Rome.
But Mr. Dolce did not think the government would fall. ''When you have a broad coalition, the ruling has less of an impact,'' he said. ''It won't be an epochal shift because the conditions for that don't exist in this country.''
He added, ''It's all very gray in this country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters demanding prison for former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi gathered on Thursday in front of Italy's high court in Rome. The court's decision upheld a prison term for tax fraud. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSANDRO BIANCHI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); MAGISTRATES (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); APPEALS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (77%); PRISONS (77%); EMBEZZLEMENT (77%); ACQUITTAL (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HISTORY (66%); CHILD ABUSE (61%); FILM (50%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



53 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Finance Minister Retracts Statement on Nazis

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Japan's finance minister on Thursday publicly retracted comments he made this week that appeared to call on Japan's current conservative government to emulate Hitler's takeover of prewar Germany. The gaffe underscored the potential for disputes over Japan's own wartime history to derail its popular prime minister, Shinzo Abe.
The finance minister, Taro Aso, insisted that his comments on Monday, in which he seemed to say that Japan should learn how the Nazi party quietly rewrote Germany's Constitution, were taken out of context. Faced with growing criticism in Japan and abroad, he countered that he had never meant to praise the Nazis. He said he had hoped to prompt debate in Japan over whether to change its current pacifist Constitution to allow a full-fledged military, as many conservatives now seek. 
Still, the uproar over the comments by Mr. Aso, an outspoken nationalist who is also known for slips of the tongue, seemed to confirm the fears of some Japanese and other Asians that members of Mr. Abe's government want to revise current views of World War II to present Imperial Japan, an ally of Nazi Germany, in a more positive light. The gaffe was also the latest in a string of recent events, including nationalistic displays by South Korean and Japanese fans at a soccer game, that have raised concerns that disagreements over interpreting the war could isolate Japan from the rest of Asia, where there are still bitter memories of Japan's early 20th-century empire building.
The comments come at a time when there has been intense attention on where Mr. Abe, who has long been a leading figure on Japan's far right, might lead his long-rudderless nation after his governing Liberal Democratic Party's decisive victory in upper house elections last month. Critics have speculated that he may adopt a nationalistic agenda like the one he pursued during his first term as prime minister seven years ago, when he drew outrage in South Korea and even the United States for denying that Koreans and women from other conquered nations had been forced to serve as prostitutes for Japanese soldiers during the war.
However, Mr. Abe has so far appeared to steer clear of such historical controversies, focusing his second term on policies to revive Japan's stagnant economy. The question, analysts say, is whether Mr. Abe and members of his government, who have spoken of restoring not only Japan's economy but also its pride, can keep adhering to the politically successful moderate line.
''Mr. Abe knows that with one wrong word he can undo all that he has accomplished,'' said Harumi Arima, an independent political commentator. ''The stock market is up, and so are his approval ratings, so he is being very careful not to say the wrong things that bring this all crashing down again.''
Mr. Arima said that the Liberal Democrats had learned from the missteps this year of another vocal nationalist, the once-popular mayor of the western city of Osaka, Toru Hashimoto, who alienated mainstream voters with comments that seemed to justify the system of wartime brothels. Analysts say Mr. Abe also learned a similar lesson during his own failed first stint as prime minister, when he lost public support for trying to rewrite textbooks and the Constitution instead of focusing on pocketbook issues.
This time Mr. Abe has sought to avoid appearing too extreme. He has said his government would adhere to official apologies made in the mid-1990s to the victims of Japanese aggression and also the so-called comfort women who were forced to serve in the wartime brothels -- a reversal of his earlier stance.
The uproar this week over his finance minister's comments highlight how emotions over events more than 70 years ago remain potent enough to damage Mr. Abe politically and hurt ties with not only Asian neighbors but also, potentially, the United States, the postwar guarantor of Japan's military security.
The episode began on Monday when Mr. Aso was discussing with a conservative study group how to achieve the long-held rightist goal of revising the Constitution, which was written by American occupiers after the war. Mr. Aso, who served as prime minister five years ago, said they should look at how Hitler's Nazi party had changed the Constitution of the prewar Weimar Republic ''without anyone noticing.''
''Maybe we should learn from their techniques,'' Mr. Aso said.
It was unclear what Mr. Aso meant, since he had earlier in the same talk criticized the Nazis for usurping the Weimar Constitution, which he praised as the most progressive in Europe at the time. Still, the later comment brought an outpouring of criticism for appearing to point to the Nazis as a model, as well as presenting what historians called an incorrect view of what was actually a violent takeover by the Nazis.
The comments created an immediate uproar in Asia, where the South Korean and Chinese news media portrayed them as yet more evidence that Mr. Abe has been leading his nation to the nationalistic right. The comments also drew criticism from some in the United States, a more worrisome development for Mr. Abe, who has vowed to maintain close ties as Japan faces tension with China over disputed islands.
On Tuesday, the Simon Wiesenthal Center, a Jewish human rights group based in Los Angeles, posted a statement on its Web site demanding that Mr. Aso explain himself.
''What 'techniques' from the Nazis' governance are worth learning -- how to stealthily cripple democracy?'' the statement asked.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Taro Aso, the finance minister, said his remarks were intended to start a debate on whether to change Japan's Constitution. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU YAMANAKA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); SOCCER (50%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (88%); SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (97%); GERMANY (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



54 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 2212 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Full reviews of recent jazz performances: nytimes.com/jazz. A searchable guide to these and other shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Ahmed Abdullah's Diaspora (Monday) Mr. Abdullah is a trumpeter and jazz educator with a history of impassioned work in the avant-garde. Diaspora is his tribute to a range of inspirations -- including Sun Ra, the visionary keyboardist and composer in whose band he served -- and its lineup on this occasion includes the poet and vocalist Monique Ngozi Nri, the baritone saxophonist Alex Harding, the bassist Radu, the pianist D.D. Jackson and the drummer Reggie Nicholson. At 7 and 9 p.m., For My Sweet, 1103 Fulton Street, near Classon Avenue, Bedford Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, (917) 757-0170; $10. (Nate Chinen)
Ron Carter Big Band (Friday through Sunday) As on ''Ron Carter's Great Big Band'' (Sunnyside) -- a first-time big-band album by Mr. Carter, the eminent bassist, from 2011 -- this return engagement will feature veteran section players, and arrangements by Bob Freedman. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $30. (Chinen) 
&#x2605; Paquito D'Rivera and Panamericana (Tuesday through Aug. 11) The clarinetist, alto saxophonist and longtime Cuban exile Paquito D'Rivera favors bright extroversion in his music, which usually incorporates Latin rhythm. As on ''Panamericana Suite'' (MCG Jazz), which won a Latin Grammy a few years ago, he leads a group that includes Oscar Stagnaro on electric bass and Pernell Saturnino on percussion. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 at tables, $20 at bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
Al Foster Quartet (Friday through Sunday) The veteran drummer Al Foster has a rhythmic signature that's both assertive and relaxed. He's likely to propel this band -- with Dayna Stephens on tenor saxophone, Bob Albanese on piano and Doug Weiss on bass -- in that slippery fashion, while leaving plenty of room for solo exhortation. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
Mark Gross Quintet (Friday and Saturday) A well-traveled alto and soprano saxophonist from Baltimore, perhaps best recognized for his tenure in the Dave Holland Big Band, Mark Gross has a new album, ''Blackside'' (Jazz Legacy Productions), that features Freddie Hendrix on trumpet and Dezron Douglas on bass. Those partners rejoin him here, in a quintet that also includes the pianist Benito Gonzalez and the drummer Corey Rawls. At 7, 9 and 10:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; $38 cover. (Chinen)
Eddie Henderson Quartet (Wednesday) The trumpeter Eddie Henderson has acres of experience in a hard-bop vein, working with small groups not unlike this one, which includes the pianist John di Martino, the bassist Ed Howard and a celebrated young Japanese drummer, Tiger Onitsuka. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; $10 cover, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)
&#x2605; Derrick Hodge (Tuesday) A bassist equally admired by observers of modern jazz and contemporary R&B, Derrick Hodge is kicking off a tour to support his first album as a leader, ''Live Today'' (Blue Note), which features the rapper Common, the singer-songwriter Alan Hampton and the pianist Robert Glasper, among others. The album, which will be released on the day of this performance, is a sturdy showcase for Mr. Hodge's gift for accessible melody and offhandedly deep grooves. At 8:30 p.m., the Cutting Room, 44 East 32nd Street, Manhattan, thecuttingroomnyc.com; $20 in advance, $25 day of show, with a $20 minimum. (Chinen)
&#x2605; Vijay Iyer at the Stone (Friday through Sunday) The ever-productive pianist Vijay Iyer has been in residence this week at the Stone, and he concludes this weekend with three strikingly different trios. On Friday he presents Trioing, with the bassist Harish Raghavan and the drummer Justin Brown, who have been working together in a sharp band led by the trumpeter Ambrose Akinmusire. Saturday's sets will feature the ensemble from a recent album, ''Tirtha'' (ACT), with Mr. Iyer, Prasanna on guitar and Nitin Mitta on tabla. And on Sunday an electro-acoustic group will feature the violinist Mari Kimura and the bassist William Parker. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; $15 for each set, $10 for students. (Chinen)
Ali Jackson Quintet (Monday through Thursday) Ali Jackson, a spirited drummer best known for his affiliation with Wynton Marsalis, leads a Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra subunit of sorts, with a front line of Sherman Irby on alto saxophone and Vincent Gardner on trombone. The run is said to feature ''surprise special guests,'' which could mean a number of things (but one in particular). At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 cover, with a $10 minimum; $15 for students. (Chinen)
Earl Klugh (Friday through Sunday) With ''HandPicked'' (Heads Up International), the impeccable acoustic guitarist Earl Klugh pares down to a solo format, except on the few tracks that feature a duet partner. Mr. Klugh is performing some solo pieces during this engagement; on others, he's using a band that includes Tom Braxton on saxophone and flute and David Lee Spradley on keyboards. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 cover at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
Marcus Miller (Friday) Mr. Miller, an electric bass virtuoso and an always poised composer-bandleader, draws from his funk-infused recent album, ''Renaissance'' (Concord Jazz), with a young working band that includes the alto saxophonist Alex Han. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $40. (Chinen)
Sam Newsome Trio (Tuesday) Sam Newsome has made a specialty of the soprano saxophone solo recital, working with original material as well as music by the titan of that format, Steve Lacy. But he still knows how to connect with a rhythm section, as he does here, in the first installment of a Summer Garden Concert Series presented by the National Jazz Museum in Harlem. At 7 p.m., El Sitio Feliz Garden at Union Settlement, 203 East 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 348-8300, jazzmuseuminharlem.org; suggested donation, $10. (Chinen)
Next Collective (Wednesday through Aug. 11) As heard on a recent album, ''Cover Art'' (Concord Jazz), Next Collective is an assembled whole, a product of good corporate design. The group features young (or youngish) musicians recasting tunes by the likes of D'Angelo and Bon Iver, with a little less substance than style. But there is reason to get excited about the talent involved -- like the saxophonists Logan Richardson and Walter Smith III, the guitarist Matt Stevens and the pianist Gerald Clayton, who all surface here. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set next Friday and Saturday, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $25 and $30. (Chinen)
Clarence Penn: Monk, the Lost Files (Saturday) An alert and dynamic drummer who has worked in a range of postbop settings, Clarence Penn reinterprets some of Thelonious Monk's songs with this project, featuring Grgoire Maret on harmonica, Chad Lefkowitz-Brown on saxophone, Gerald Clayton on piano and Yasushi Nakamura on bass. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery at Salt Space, 1160 Broadway, fifth floor, at West 27th Street, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20, free for members. (Chinen)
Chris Speed Trio (Friday and Saturday) The tenor saxophonist and clarinetist Chris Speed can often be found in sonically restive settings, at least a couple of steps to the left of any established idiom. But he brushes against the glorious tradition of tenor-sax trios with this band featuring the bassist Chris Tordini and the drummer David King, which hunkers down here in preparation for the recording studio. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Caf, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $20 cover, which includes one drink. (Chinen)
Stranahan/Zaleski/Rosato & Lund (Friday) The drummer Colin Stranahan, the pianist Glenn Zaleski and the bassist Rick Rosato make up a smart and determinedly modern young cooperative, which recently released its second album, ''Limitless'' (Capri). Joining them here is a guitarist of similar fluidity, Lage Lund. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery at Salt Space, 1160 Broadway, fifth floor, at West 27th Street, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20, free for members. (Chinen)
E.J. Strickland Quintet (Wednesday) While still better known as a drummer than as a bandleader, E. J. Strickland is beginning to make an impact with his own groups, which usually feature his twin brother, the tenor and soprano saxophonist Marcus Strickland. This one also includes the alto saxophonist Jaleel Shaw, the pianist Luis Perdomo and the bassist Linda Oh. At 7, 9 and 10:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; no cover for early shows, $20 minimum for the late show. (Chinen)
&#x2605; Craig Taborn and Gust Burns (Saturday) Craig Taborn, who has proven himself a pianist of nearly boundless imagination, teams up here with Gust Burns, a Seattle native who approaches pianism, and improvisation, from a complementary angle. They recently played a brief duo set as part of the one-year anniversary celebration for the Sound It Out series; returning to the series here, they'll have more space to stretch out. At 8 p.m., Greenwich House Music School, 46 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 242-4770, greenwichhouse.org; $15, $12 for students. (Chinen)
&#x2605; Trio 3 Featuring Vijay Iyer (Tuesday through Aug. 10) The alto saxophonist Oliver Lake, the bassist Reggie Workman and the drummer Andrew Cyrille hail from the same broad-minded jazz generation, and share an agenda of rugged epiphany. Trio 3 is the name of their superhero collective, which has occasionally expanded its ranks to include a pianist: Geri Allen and Jason Moran have each taken recent turns. Vijay Iyer, on board next week, brings a similarly freethinking integrity to his engagement. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 and $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Steve Turre and the Bones of Art (Friday through Sunday) Steve Turre regroups with several fellow trombonists -- Frank Lacy, Robin Eubanks and Steve Davis -- to pay homage to Art Blakey and the Jazz Messengers, the hard-bop institution to which they all belonged, at different times. Drawing from a forthcoming album on the HighNote label, they rely on the steam locomotion of the pianist Xavier Davis, the bassist Kenny Davis and the drummer Willie Jones III. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $35 to $45 cover, $25 for students at select sets, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Ben van Gelder Quintet (Sunday) A prepossessing young saxophonist with a grasp of the progressive post-bop language, Ben van Gelder presents his own music for a band that features the trumpeter Ambrose Akinmusire. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Caf, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $20 cover, which includes one drink. (Chinen)
&#x2605; Steve Wilson Quartet (Tuesday through Aug. 11) The alto and soprano saxophonist Steve Wilson combines economy and modernity in his playing, whatever the setting. This engagement will feature a quartet that he also calls Wilsonian's Grain, with musicians as staunchly capable as he is: the pianist Orrin Evans, the bassist Ugonna Okegwo and the drummer Bill Stewart. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
Ben Wolfe Quartet (Sunday) The bassist Ben Wolfe admires elegance however it comes, and on ''From Here I See'' (MaxJazz), he finds it in a familiar form. The album features a dozen of his compositions for jazz combo and string quartet, with tasteful interjections; this one-nighter will feature the combo alone, with Stacy Dillard on saxophones, Orrin Evans on piano and Donald Edwards on drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium Jazz Club, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, theiridium.com; $25 cover, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)
Pablo Ziegler's Tango Conexion With Stefon Harris (Friday and Saturday) The ever-poised Argentine pianist and composer Pablo Ziegler has recently been working with a group he calls Tango Conexion, with Walter Castro on bandonen, Claudio Ragazzi on guitar, Pedro Giraudo on bass and Jisoo Ok on cello. For this run the dynamic vibraphonist Stefon Harris joins as a special guest. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 and $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (92%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (91%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); RECORD RELEASES (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



55 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: U.S. May Move Against Bank Over Jumbo Loan Securities

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
Bank of America disclosed on Thursday that the Justice Department was weighing whether to bring a civil complaint against it over claims that the bank had improperly handled securities backed by jumbo loans. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission is also considering whether to file a civil action over how Merrill Lynch, the brokerage house owned by Bank of America, handled its securities, the bank said in a filing.
The potential actions would be the latest mortgage woes for the bank, which is based in Charlotte, N.C., just as it is trying to move beyond the problems of the financial crisis.
In the filing on Thursday, Bank of America said it was ''in active discussions'' related to the investigations. As part of those discussions, the bank will seek to argue why bringing a civil charge would be a mistake.
''We have made progress resolving many issues and will continue to work to address any outstanding matters,'' said Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America.
In addition, the New York attorney general may also move against Merrill Lynch over the residential mortgages the bank packaged and sold.
Bank of America was pummeled by a glut of bad mortgages it inherited after acquiring a troubled mortgage lender, Countrywide Financial, in the financial crisis.
And like some of its Wall Street rivals, Bank of America is still grappling with mistakes it made during the housing boom.
In October, federal prosecutors in New York accused Bank of America of churning out loans through its Countrywide unit at such a rapid clip that quality controls were largely ignored.
The bank also is facing a high-stakes lawsuit in federal court that could further crimp profits. In that case, the Federal Housing Finance Authority, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, sued Bank of America and 17 other banks, claiming that the lenders had duped the agencies into buying shaky securities.
As part of its efforts to move beyond the mortgage turmoil, Bank of America reached a $1.7 billion settlement in May to resolve a drawn-out battle with MBIA, the bond insurer, over mortgage-backed securities.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); BANK FAILURES (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BONDS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (63%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



56 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Sex, Money and Gravitas

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Can a woman effectively run the Federal Reserve? That shouldn't even be a question. And Janet Yellen, the vice chairwoman of the Fed's Board of Governors, isn't just up to the job; by any objective standard, she's the best-qualified person in America to take over when Ben Bernanke steps down as chairman.
Yet there are not one but two sexist campaigns under way against Ms. Yellen. One is a whisper campaign whose sexism is implicit, while the other involves raw misogyny. And both campaigns manage to combine sexism with very bad economic analysis. 
Let's start with the more extreme, open campaign. Last week, The New York Sun published an editorial attacking Ms. Yellen titled ''The Female Dollar.'' The editorial took it for granted that the Fed has been following disastrously inflationary monetary policies for years, even though actual inflation is at a 50-year low. And it warned that things would get even worse if the dollar were to become merely ''gender-backed.'' I am not making this up.
True, The Sun is a marginal publication, with strong gold-bug tendencies, and nobody would pay much attention if the rest of the right had ignored or distanced itself from that editorial. In fact, however, The Wall Street Journal immediately followed up with its own editorial along the same lines, in the course of which it approvingly quoted The Sun piece, female dollar and all.
The other campaign against Ms. Yellen has been subtler, involving repeated suggestions -- almost always off the record -- that she lacks the ''gravitas'' to lead the Fed. What does that mean? Well, suppose we were talking about a man with Ms. Yellen's credentials: distinguished academic work, leader of the Council of Economic Advisers, six years as president of the San Francisco Fed, a record of working effectively with colleagues at the Board of Governors. Would anyone suggest that a man with those credentials was somehow unqualified for office?
Sorry, but it's hard to escape the conclusion that gravitas, in this context, mainly means possessing a Y chromosome.
Both anti-Yellen campaigns, then, involve unmistakable sexism, and should be condemned for that reason. As it happens, however, both campaigns have another problem, too: They're based on bad economic analysis.
In the case of the ''female dollar'' types, the wrongheadedness of the economics is as raw and obvious as the sexism. The people shouting that the Fed is ''debasing the dollar'' have been warning of runaway inflation any day now for almost five years, and they have been wrong every step of the way. Worse, they have shown no willingness to admit having been wrong, let alone to revise their views in the face of experience. They are, in short, the last people in the world you should listen to when it comes to monetary policy.
The wrongheadedness of the gravitas crowd, like its sexism, is subtler. But to the extent that having gravitas means something other than being male, it means being what I like to call a Very Serious Person -- the kind of person who talks a lot about the need to make tough decisions, which somehow always involves demanding sacrifices on the part of ordinary families while treating the wealthy with kid gloves. And here's the thing: The Very Serious People have been almost as consistently wrong, although not as spectacularly, as the inflation hysterics.
This has been obviously true in the case of budget policy, where the Serious People hijacked the national conversation, shifting it away from job creation to deficits, on the grounds that we were facing an imminent fiscal crisis -- which somehow keeps not coming.
But it has also been true for monetary policy. The Wall Street Journal (news department, not editorial) recently surveyed the forecasting records of top policy makers at the Fed, whom it divided into ''hawks'' (officials who keep warning that the Fed is doing too much to fight unemployment) and ''doves'' (who warn that it's doing too little). It found that the doves made consistently better forecasts, with the best forecaster of all being the most prominent of the doves -- Janet Yellen.
The point is that while the gravitas types like to think of themselves as serious men (and I do mean men) who are willing to do what needs to be done, recent history suggests that they're actually men who are eager to prove their seriousness by doing what doesn't need to be done, at the public's expense.
Also, there was a time not along ago when almost everyone in the gravitas crowd, if asked who possessed that mystical quality in its purest form, would surely have answered ''Alan Greenspan.'' How well did that turn out?
So is Janet Yellen the only possible candidate to be the next leader of the Fed? Of course not. But the case for someone else should be made on the merits -- and, so far, that hasn't been what's happening.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WOMEN (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (73%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



57 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: S.&P. Closes Above 1,700 On Positive Economic Data

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market moved broadly higher on Thursday, bolstered by positive news about the economy.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average reached new highs, with the S& P 500 closing above 1,700 points for the first time. The Nasdaq composite index hit its highest level since September 2000. 
The gains were driven by a steady flow of encouraging reports on the global economy.
Overnight, a positive reading on China's manufacturing helped shore up Asian markets. In the United States, the government reported that the number of people applying for unemployment benefits last week fell sharply, and a trade group said that factories increased production last month. And investors were encouraged by solid earnings from several companies including CBS, MetLife and Yelp.
''It's just a lot of things adding up,'' said Russell Croft, a portfolio manager of the Croft Value Fund. ''It's hard to put your finger on why exactly, but basically it's a bunch of pretty good data points coming together to make a very good day.''
Over all, analysts said, the news has been good but not overwhelmingly so. On Wednesday, the Commerce Department reported that the economy grew at a tepid annual rate of 1.7 percent in the second quarter.
''They're not great numbers, but they're positive and they're continuing to grow,'' said Tim Courtney, chief investment officer of Exencial Wealth Advisors. ''That's about all the market needs to hear.''
Among the nominal record closing highs, the S.& P. 500 rose 21.14 points, or about 1.3 percent, to 1,706.87. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 128.48 points, or 0.8 percent, to 15,628.02. The Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks rose 14.62 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,059.88.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 49.37 points, or 1.4 percent, to 3,675.74, in line with the market's daily gains but still far short of its record above 5,000 points in March 2000, just before the Internet bubble burst.
Investors said the S.& P. 500's crossing over 1,700 points might give consumers a psychological push. The index made the jump from 1,600 to 1,700 in less than three months. The index first traded above 1,600 on May 3. The first close above 1,500 was in March 2000.
The Dow Jones transportation average rose 208.26 points, or 3.2 percent, to 6,670.06. Many investors see the transportation sector as a leading indicator for the economy because freight and shipping companies tend to get busier as the economy improves. The transportation average increased by a surge in Con-way, a freight company that reported earnings far higher than investors expected. Con-way rose $4.34, or 10.5 percent, to $45.79.
In the bond market, interest rates moved up sharply as traders anticipated higher rates as the economy strengthens. The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell one full point, to 91 26/32, while its yield rose to 2.71 percent from 2.59 percent on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STATISTICS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (55%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



58 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Barclays, Caught Short, Is Now In a Bind

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
''We continue to believe that we're well capitalized.''
So said Chris Lucas, finance director of Barclays, three months ago.
It turns out that a British regulator disagrees.
Shares of Barclays lost 10 percent of their value during the first three trading days of this week after the company disclosed that its capital -- as seen by the regulator -- needed to grow by 38 percent to be adequate under new rules, unless the bank reduced its assets. And the regulator was not willing to give Barclays as much time as it wanted to raise that capital.
Barclays is scrambling. It plans to sell stock through a rights offering. It plans to raise still more capital through so-called CoCos -- contingent convertibles, to the uninitiated. Those are bonds that pay interest unless bank capital levels fall too far. In that case, they automatically convert into stock. It also plans to shed some assets, which reduces the amount of capital that it needs.
Barclays is lucky in one respect. If it were subject to the rules being proposed by regulators for large banks based in the United States, it would need far more capital. 
What is going on may come to be known as the revolt of the regulators. They were profoundly embarrassed by the clear evidence that banks were undercapitalized before the credit crisis despite the banks' claims to the contrary. The revolt is most intense in the financial centers with the biggest banks -- the places where the pain to governments would be greatest if another round of bailouts were needed.
It is useful to try to understand why the banks were so undercapitalized that bailouts were needed.
The answer lies in international rules that grew ever more complicated and gave the banks wide latitude to make judgments about the safety of the loans they had made and the securities they had bought.
Bank capital, the financial cushion that banks have to hold to absorb potential losses, is usually expressed as a percentage of ''risk-weighted assets.'' Some assets receive full weight in the calculations, and some -- viewed as virtually risk-free -- receive no weight and thus have no effect on how much capital a bank needs.
All that makes sense -- if you can figure out the risks. But of course that is not easy. At first, there were fairly simple categories, with a certain type of loan receiving a certain risk allocation. But that led some banks to load up on the riskiest assets within any category and to invent assets that would seem to be low-risk and therefore not need much capital.
As time went on, the rules allowed banks to make more and more judgments. They could use bond ratings from Moody's or its competitors to determine how safe an asset was. And if they wanted, they could use their own risk models to make the decisions.
How's that for regulatory abdication? Rather than seek to review and judge bank assets, the regulators essentially allowed the banks to evaluate their own decisions.
After the financial crisis, regulators meeting in Basel, Switzerland, produced a new set of rules, called Basel III. They tightened up what counted as capital and took steps to improve the risk ratings. They raised the required capital levels.
But they did one more thing, and that is turning out to be critical. They adopted leverage ratios for banks.
In principle, a leverage ratio is simple. Calculate how much capital a bank has and divide it by the bank's total assets, without any risk weighting. In practice, of course, it is not quite so simple. But it is a lot simpler than the other calculation of risk-weighted assets. When all this goes into effect, banks are supposed to meet both sets of rules.
At first, the big banks do not seem to have focused on the leverage ratio. But that is what trapped Barclays and it is what may force several other large banks on both sides of the Atlantic to raise more capital -- or dispose of assets to bring down the amount of capital they need.
At Barclays, the British regulator did several things. It made some decisions that reduced the amount of capital Barclays had and raised the amount of assets. It required Barclays to set aside an additional 2 billion -- about $3 billion -- to pay for some past sins in which both mortgage and small-business borrowers were sold products they did not understand. That came directly out of capital in the calculations.
When all was done, the regulator concluded that Barclays's leverage ratio was 2.2 percent, well below the 3 percent that is to be required, not to mention the 2.8 percent that the bank claimed at the end of 2012. And the regulator decided that it had to meet the rule by mid-2014 rather than the 2018 deadline set in Basel. That meant Barclays could not assume that its retained earnings over the years would push up capital levels. It had to raise capital, and quickly.
How did Barclays end up so undercapitalized? In part, it stems from the fact that the company has not sold any stock since some panic sales in 2008. That is true of most European banks but not of big American ones, which reflects well on both United States bankers and regulators.
As it happens, those 2008 sales may yet come back to haunt Barclays. A lot of the stock was sold to Qatari funds and investors, and there have been investigations for years regarding whether there was something improper -- like Barclays lending the money used to buy the stock -- in those transactions.
The semiannual financial statements released by Barclays this week said that one British regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, ''provided its preliminary findings against Barclays'' -- note the word ''against'' -- in late June and that Barclays responded to them in late July. It did not detail those findings, but said that the investigation involves ''four current and former senior employees,'' including Mr. Lucas, the finance director.
One reason Barclays and other banks resist issuing new stock is that they think equity is more expensive than debt. Barclays's chief executive, Antony Peter Jenkins, put the cost at 11.5 percent when he spoke to analysts this week.
There is a sense in which equity is a lot cheaper than debt. A company can stop paying dividends on its stock, and those dividends are typically rather low anyway -- about 2.4 percent at Barclays. It pays more than that to borrow money, and it cannot stop making those payments without going into default, with possibly severe legal consequences.
But that is not how the calculation is done. Instead, it is based on estimates of how much equity investors will want to receive over a risk-free interest rate. The worse the company is doing, the higher the rate. So the more a company needs equity, the more it thinks it costs and the less eager it is to actually sell stock.
It is odd, however, that Barclays, having been forced to admit it desperately needs to raise capital, chose not to take the one obvious step: stop paying its dividend. ''A fundamental thing we teach in finance is that a firm should not be paying a dividend when they need capital,'' says Rebel Cole, a finance professor at DePaul University. ''Retained earnings are the cheapest form of capital.''
Not, however, to a management whose credibility is already damaged. Barclays evidently fears that to stop paying the dividend would be an admission of failure and that shareholders will not notice what happened as long as their dividend checks continue to arrive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Antony Jenkins, chief of Barclays. Though the bank is undercapitalized, it has so far declined to reduce or eliminate its dividend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL COURT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (89%); BAILOUTS (86%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); STOCK OFFERINGS (74%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



59 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WASHINGTON MEMO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon's Questions Now Need Answers

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Chuck Hagel is looking for a few good ideas.
Faced with the most stringent Pentagon budget in at least a generation, the secretary of defense had ordered a four-month review to define options for balancing strategy against solvency. As he disclosed the results on Wednesday, Mr. Hagel was certainly aware of a Washington axiom: Never let a crisis go to waste, since tough times provide opportunities to accomplish things that were thought impossible.
But can the need to cut spending be used to create a smaller but smarter military by challenging expensive orthodoxies that still hold sway two decades after the cold war ended and a decade after Sept. 11? Or is this simply an exercise in managing a shrinking budget? 
While it may be too soon to answer those questions, several significant proposals emerged from the review.
First, the Pentagon did not just touch the third rail of budget politics -- compensation for military personnel and retirees -- it leapt onto the tracks. Mr. Hagel said that tens of billions of dollars in savings could be found by limiting military and civilian pay raises, forcing retirees with second careers to use private health insurance, reducing housing allowances and lowering overseas cost-of-living adjustments. Without these changes, personnel costs could grow to 80 percent of the budget in a decade, leaving little money to train for and fight wars.
And while Mr. Hagel did not discuss it publicly, senior officials said later that the Defense Department has also undertaken a major review of its war plans -- including those for Iran and the Korean Peninsula -- to measure whether tactics still match ready forces after so many years of conflict focused on counterinsurgency and counterterrorism.
''The world didn't wait for us while were in Iraq and Afghanistan,'' said Ashton B. Carter, the deputy defense secretary, who led the Strategic Choices and Management Review for Mr. Hagel. ''This is something we are looking at very hard. What are the contingencies? What are the wars? And what is our operational approach to each one?''
Mr. Hagel is facing off against a Congress that may prevent him from making really tough choices, as members fear the economic consequences in their districts, especially those that might lose military bases to consolidation. Then there are the military branches, now engaged in a renewed round of interservice rivalry over their share of the budget, a debate for dollars that receded for more than a decade because of the free spending that followed the 2001 terrorist attacks.
And even the president's own Office of Management and Budget pressed Mr. Hagel to suppress the release of statistics showing the dire potential impact of continued across-the-board cuts, according to several officials, who spoke anonymously to discuss an internal debate.
One administration official said the budget office wanted to protect President Obama's ''negotiating space.'' Officials also expressed concern that if the Pentagon sings the sequester blues too effectively, hawkish members of Congress might carve out budget exemptions to protect the military that would have to come at the expense of domestic programs that are now far higher on the president's agenda.
Despite the pressure, Mr. Hagel released details of the review, akin to a detailed X-ray of a sick patient, with the problems, risks and dangers all identified. But there is no consensus on what treatment is best -- or what is affordable.
Mr. Carter acknowledged that ground forces were likely to take the largest cuts. ''We have to maintain a very high state of readiness, and the more ready and forward-deployed a force you have -- that takes money -- inevitably that makes for a smaller force,'' he said.
The review also argued in favor of preserving money for military units and their most useful weapons -- including a new bomber and electronic warfare -- in a renewed focus on the Asia-Pacific region, Mr. Carter said.
Some skeptics of the review process said it failed to challenge in fundamental ways how the military is organized, trained and equipped, rather than simply choosing what gets smaller and what is protected in the budget.
Are aircraft carrier strike groups still the most effective, and cost-effective, way of projecting power? Are humans still required in the cockpit of warplanes? While the Navy may need its own small army, called the Marines, does the Navy's small army really need its own air force? Does the current triad of nuclear bombers and missiles in silos and aboard submarines still make sense, and at what numbers?
Hundreds of billions of dollars are buried in those questions. The answers may end up being that the status quo should be preserved, but those questions were not the focus of the review.
Adm. James A. Winnefeld Jr., the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who was Mr. Carter's partner in leading the review, noted that strategy must assess ends, ways and means.
''It's not about one or the other; it's about balancing all three,'' Admiral Winnefeld said. ''And I would tell you, we didn't come up with any dramatic changes in service organization or anything like that, but there was a considerable effort involved in the 'ways.' And things like, how do you generate presence more innovatively? How would you do homeland air defense more innovatively?''
Gordon Adams, a professor of international relations at American University, said the review did not go nearly far enough, especially in searching for savings that could be found by greater cuts to the bureaucracy and to weapons programs.
''After World War II, in four years, the United States cut the Pentagon civil service 50 percent; after Korea, 24 percent; after Vietnam, 28 percent; after the cold war, 37 percent,'' Mr. Adams wrote in an online essay for Foreign Policy.
''Nor did the secretary address in any detail the question of how much technology costs and how much could be saved by more senior-level attention to the projected costs for programs like the F-35 or the long-range strike aircraft,'' he wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY COMPENSATION (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); COST OF LIVING (75%); TERRORISM (74%); COLD WAR (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); STATISTICS (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: CHUCK HAGEL (92%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



60 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 4788 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'First Date' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Zachary Levi, from the NBC spy comedy ''Chuck,'' and Krysta Rodriguez, from ''The Addams Family'' on Broadway and ''Smash'' on television, are the potential soulmates thrown together in an eventful getting-to-know-you evening in this romantic musical that kicks off the new Broadway season. Directed by Bill Berry, who first staged the musical as a co-production of ACT and 5th Avenue Theater in Seattle, the show has a book by Austin Winsberg, a former writer and producer on ''Gossip Girl,'' with music and lyrics by Alan Zachary and Michael Weiner. Josh Rhodes (''Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella'') is the choreographer. Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney) 
'The Great Society' (previews start on Saturday; opens on Thursday) When Alexander Harrington was a kid, his dad worked with Lyndon Baines Johnson on drafting the president's antipoverty legislation. Nearly 50 years later, Mr. Harrington is the author of this play about Johnson's time in the White House. This is the first of two L.B.J.-themed plays eyeing a Broadway run -- the other is ''All the Way'' at the American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Mass. Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Eric Grode)
'Harbor' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Chad Beguelin's writing credits have fallen on the frothier side of the ledger thus far, including the lyrics and libretto for ''The Wedding Singer'' and lyrics for ''Elf.'' Now Mr. Beguelin trains his sights on a dysfunctional family that does not count among its members Santa Claus or a rapping grandmother. It does, however, include a ne'er-do-well woman who drops in on her brother at his Sag Harbor home with her teenage son in tow. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Grode)
'Love's Labour's Lost' (in previews; opens on Aug. 12) Shakespeare in the Park hit it big in 1971 when it set some of its young talent loose on a lesser-known Shakespeare comedy: ''Two Gentlemen of Verona,'' which was turned into a Tony Award-winning delight by Galt MacDermot and John Guare. Now the Public Theater's summer outpost has deputized the ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson'' team of Michael Friedman (music and lyrics) and Alex Timbers (adaptation and direction) to musicalize this even more obscure comedy. A batch of ''Bloody Bloody'' performers are on board, along with Daniel Breaker and Rachel Dratch. Delacorte Theater, Central Park, enter the park at 81st Street and Central Park West, (212) 539-8750, shakespeareinthepark.org. (Grode)
'Richard III' (in previews; opens on Saturday) You may recall that a skeleton that had been discovered under a parking lot in Leicester, England, was confirmed this year as having been the real-life Richard III. So what better fit for Shakespeare in the Parking Lot, which is currently skirmishing with the city's Department of Transportation over fees involving city-owned parking spaces? Let's hope the director, Hamilton Clancy, doesn't take his title character up on that climactic offer to swap his kingdom for a horse. What would the Department of Transportation have to say about that? Municipal parking lot at Ludlow and Broome Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 873-9050, shakespeareintheparkinglot.com. (Grode)
'Soul Doctor' (in previews; opens on Aug. 15) This musical odyssey -- after engagements in South Florida and New Orleans, as well as Off Broadway -- examines the life of ''The Singing Rabbi,'' Shlomo Carlebach, a key figure in popular Jewish music, and his friendship with Nina Simone. The show is written and directed by Daniel S. Wise, with choreography by Benoit-Swan Pouffer. Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (800) 432-7780, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Under the Greenwood Tree' (previews start on Thursday; opens on Aug. 11) Don't let the pastoral title, the time of year and the subject matter (Shakespearean adaptation) fool you. This ''musical reimagining'' of ''As You Like It'' is one of the few examples of summer Shakespeare being presented indoors. This will presumably help the acoustics for one of the production's main selling points, an indie-Americana score performed by the 17-member cast. Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theflea.org. (Grode)
Broadway
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Anthony Warlow and Faith Prince as Miss Hannigan (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Kinky Boots' Cyndi Lauper has created a love-and-heat-seeking score that performs like a pop star on Ecstasy. This Harvey Fierstein-scripted tale of lost souls in shoe business, in which a young factory owner (Stark Sands) teams up with a drag queen (Billy Porter), sometimes turns into a sermon. But it's hard to resist the audience-hugging charisma of the songs in this Tony winner for best new musical (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Let It Be' Another Beatles tribute on Broadway? But this concert is the best of the bunch by far, with a rotating cast, 40 or so songs, and a burst of musical magical realism (2:20). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, letitbebroadway.com. (Anita Gates)
&#x2605; 'Matilda the Musical' The most satisfying and subversive musical ever to come out of Britain. Directed by Matthew Warchus, with a book by Dennis Kelly and addictive songs by Tim Minchin, this adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel is an exhilarating tale of empowerment, told from the perspective of that most powerless group, little children. Bertie Carvel is priceless as their schoolmistress nemesis (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy. Mr. Gordy's book is sketchy and obvious -- you want to plug your ears whenever the music stops. But the music is, of course, some of the greatest R&B ever recorded, and the performers mostly electric (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Charles Isherwood)
'The Nance' Playing a gay burlesque performer whose onstage specialty is mincing effeminacy, Nathan Lane combines shiny expertise and dark conviction to sometimes devastating effect, in this strained if heartfelt play by Douglas Carter Beane. Not even Mr. Lane, though, can reconcile all the disparities the script asks him to weave together. Jack O'Brien is the estimable director (2:25). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Pippin' Diane Paulus sends in the acrobats for her exhaustingly energetic (and now Tony-winning) revival of Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 musical. As for the 99-pound story at the center of this muscle-bound spectacle -- the one about the starry-eyed son of Charlemagne (Matthew James Thomas) -- that's there too, if you look hard. With Patina Miller and a delightful Andrea Martin (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Trip to Bountiful' Michael Wilson's slow-handed staging of Horton Foote's 1953 drama about an old woman's journey into the past is most notable for its remarkable star, Cicely Tyson, who seems thoroughly rejuvenated by her return to Broadway. The attractive supporting cast includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Vanessa Williams and Adepero Oduye (2:10). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in this Tony-winning play directed by Nicholas Martin (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
'Around the World in 80 Days' This stage version of the Jules Verne novel is an odd combination of steampunk and vaudeville. The actors' shameless mugging grows annoying after a while, but the pace stays brisk and the energy level high (1:30). New Theater at 45th Street, 354 West 45th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, aroundtheworldinnyc.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
'Bill W. and Dr. Bob' Making the story of the founding of Alcoholics Anonymous 99 percent preachiness-free is quite an accomplishment. Samuel Shem and Janet Surrey's purpose-driven script, which never forgets the humor of the human experience, goes a long way toward making this a satisfying revival (2:15). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, billwanddrbob.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Buyer & Cellar' Jonathan Tolins has concocted an irresistible one-man play from the most peculiar of fictitious premises -- an underemployed Los Angeles actor goes to work in Barbra Streisand's Malibu, Calif., basement -- allowing the playwright to ruminate with delicious wit and perspicacity on the solitude of celebrity, the love-hate attraction between gay men and divas, and the melancholy that lurks beneath narcissism. In the capable hands of the director Stephen Brackett and the wickedly charming actor Michael Urie, this seriously funny slice of absurdist whimsy creates the illusion of a stage filled with multiple people, all of them with their own droll point of view (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Choir Boy' A supremely gifted cast of singing actors breathes vivid life into Tarell Alvin McCraney's appealing but diffuse play about a gay teenager, played with beaming intensity by Jeremy Pope, trying to come to terms with his sexuality at an all-black boys prep school (1:30). City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'The Civil War' Presented by Theatreworks USA's free summer theater program, this earnest and absorbing musical for families illuminates history through period songs and the perspectives of a handful of well-chosen characters: a girl who disguises herself as a man to join the Confederate army; a struggling Irish immigrant and Union corporal; a plantation owner's son and his former best friend, who was also his father's slave. With a book by Arthur Perlman and musical arrangements and one new Broadway-style number by Jeff Lunden, the production is stronger in its intense, intimate moments than in its bids for comic relief. You sense the weight of the carnage in America's bloodiest war: the Union, fortunately, won, but everybody lost (1:15). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, twusa.org. (Laurel Graeber)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). Fridays and Saturdays only. St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Cuff Me: The Fifty Shades of Grey Musical Parody' What can I possibly say that isn't said by the title of this production? Here's one thing: It's not exactly great theater, but I'd still rather see ''Cuff Me'' than read the novel upon which it's based (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Claudia La Rocco)
&#x2605; 'The Designated Mourner' This revival of Wallace Shawn's anatomy of a survivor in a totalitarian country makes the definitive case for its author as one of the most complex and uncompromising moralists of the American theater. Andr Gregory, who directed the New York premiere in 2000, returns with the same first-rate cast: Deborah Eisenberg, Larry Pine and Mr. Shawn (3:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'It's Just Sex' Jeff Gould's lightweight comedy, a long-running hit in Los Angeles, is about three married couples whose party turns into an evening of spouse-swapping and postcoital navel-gazing (metaphorically). The cast is personable, but the script's only deep thought is that if women were told they could talk only to one person for the rest of their lives, they would understand why sexual fidelity is so stifling for men (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Me and Jezebel' Kelly Moore (that's Mr. Kelly Moore) is great fun to watch as Bette Davis in Elizabeth Fuller's real-life ''Man Who Came to Dinner'' story. Too bad Ms. Fuller, who plays herself, isn't really an actress. This comedy about a movie star taking over the guest room and the lives of a Connecticut family one month in 1985 is admirably self-deprecating (1:45). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 921-7862, ticketmaster.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Murder for Two' A virtuosic Jeff Blumenkrantz plays all the suspects, and Brett Ryback the investigating officer, in this nifty mystery musical comedy by Joe Kinosian and Kellen Blair. The actors also provide the music, taking turns at the piano, under Scott Schwartz's fleet direction (1:30). McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, fourth floor, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Isherwood)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place: the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic neighborhood in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812' Dave Malloy's transporting pop opera dramatizes an emotionally potent slice of Tolstoy's ''War and Peace.'' Rachel Chavkin directs a superb young cast who bring the loves and losses of 19th-century Russian aristocrats to vibrant, intimate life in a stylish cabaret setting expressly built for the production (2:30). Kazino, West 13th Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (877) 704-2821, thegreatcometof1812.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Nobody Loves You' A perky new musical, by Itamar Moses and Gaby Alter, spoofing the seemingly spoof-proof world of reality television. Heath Calvert, as the gorgeous and dumb host, and Rory O'Malley, as a swooning fan boy Tweeting himself into a happy stupor as he watches, highlight the director Michelle Tattenbaum's terrific cast (1:30). Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Potted Potter' With no new Harry Potter adventures to pore over, what's a Muggle in need of a fix to do? One answer: this gloriously goofy parody by Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner, which compresses a retelling of the seven books into 70 minutes, complete with a game of Quidditch. Clearly the two comics attended Professor Flitwick's charms class, because they cast the perfect spell over the audience: reductio ad absurdum (1:10). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)
&#x2605; 'rogerandtom' From a conventional start -- Penny waits in her apartment for Roger to arrive so they can go see the new play by their brother Tom -- Julien Schwab's witty absurdist comedy quickly gets surreal, with a subtle plot that twists and folds back on itself. Smartly using meta-theatrical devices like a broken ''fourth wall'' and benefiting from excellent performances, the play reminds us that acting doesn't only take place onstage (1:10). Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org. (Gold)
'Storyville' The Ed Bullins and Mildred Kayden musical ''Storyville'' may begin with a funeral procession, but in this production, set in New Orleans in 1917, the mood is not mournful. The contrived plot concerns a boxer-trumpeter and a singer trying to escape the confinements of the Crescent City demimonde. But the show is really about atmosphere and music, which its costume and scenic designers and spirited cast generously deliver (2:15). Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, 619 Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 935-5820, yorktheatre.org. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; 'The Two-Character Play' Playing strung-out sibling theater troupers in Tennessee Williams's rarely seen fever dream of an eternal folie  deux, Amanda Plummer and Brad Dourif don't just strike sparks. They're a raging conflagration that keeps changing form and direction. Gene David Kirk directs this revival of a demented, messy and oddly affecting self-portrait from an American master (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Unavoidable Disappearance of Tom Durnin' David Morse gives a precise, chilling performance as the title character, a mini-Madoff, in Steven Levenson's downbeat drama about a man trying to make amends for the damage his crime inflicted on his family (1:40). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Isherwood)
'Unbroken Circle' Eve Plumb, a k a Jan of ''The Brady Bunch,'' demonstrates a flair for grown-up comedy as a born-again Christian with drinking and divorce habits in James Wesley's comic drama. Too bad the production is uncertainly paced and a little unpolished, because this story of a 1970s Texas family dealing with the death of an abusive patriarch has a lot going for it (1:50). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'The Weir' This first-rate revival of Conor McPherson's play gathers a group of friends as they tell ghost stories to drive away a loneliness than can be even more frightening (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
&#x2605; 'Were Gonna Die' The venturesome playwright Young Jean Lee takes to the stage to perform this weird and thoroughly winning combination of indie-pop concert and autobiographical lament for the human condition (1:00). Reopens on Monday at Claire Tow Theater, Lincoln Center, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com, lct.org. (Isherwood)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Wanda's Monster' Making Books Sing, which turns children's books into musicals, has adapted Eileen Spinelli's 2002 picture book about Wanda, a little girl who knows that a monster lives in her closet. Barbara Zinn Krieger, who wrote the script, has transformed Wanda's Granny -- the only adult who acknowledges the truth of Wanda's perception -- from a sensible soul into a kick-out-the-jams rocker. This characterization works beautifully with the show's upbeat score and lyrics by the children's pop star Laurie Berkner. This charming production brings home a point worth considering at any age: embrace what you fear, and you just may find a friend (1:00). Vineyard Theater, 109 East 15th Street, (646) 601-1406, wandasmonster.com. (Graeber)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'The Capables' (closes on Saturday) In this play by Jay Stull, a reality-television film crew swoops down on the home of a hoarder whose piles of junk hide, at least metaphorically, some family secrets. It's a cute idea but overly long and indulgently directed by Stefanie Abel Horowitz (2:30). The Gym at Judson, 243 Thompson Street, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Genzlinger)
&#x2605; 'The Castle' (closes on Sunday) Imagine a melding of Bertolt Brecht's political theater of alienation, Tom Stoppard's verbal pyrotechnics and the rampant silliness of Monty Python and you'll have some idea of Howard Barker's hugely entertaining tale of knighthood in fester in the Middle Ages. Richard Romagnoli directs a daredevil cast that includes the magnificent Jan Maxwell as a proto-feminist witch (2:30). Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, ptpnyc.org. (Brantley)
'The Explorers Club' (closes on Sunday) Nell Benjamin's intermittently funny but mostly blunt-witted comedy, directed by Marc Bruni, features a lively cast in a farcical story of tweedy members of a British science club fretting over whether to admit a female member, played by Jennifer Westfeldt (1:35). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
'Handbook for an American Revolutionary' (closes on Saturday) Matthew-Lee Erlbach is a genial guide through a version of America in this one-man show, in which he portrays a dozen characters with a kit bag full of accents. But not all of them are especially illuminating. In the end we don't learn much more than we already knew about the United States: it's a land of diversity, disenfranchisement, anger and hope (1:10). The Gym at Judson, 243 Thompson Street, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, handbooknyc.com. (Genzlinger)
&#x2605; 'Serious Money' (closes on Sunday) Caryl Churchill's feral 1987 satire of the money culture and the quest for the big score is revived in a wicked, polished production by the Potomac Theater Project. Matching elements of Restoration comedy and Brechtian theatricality with the clamor of the trading floor, this play maintains a breakneck pace as it diagrams, in clever couplets, a takeover bid and the rapacious investors it attracts. If there's a sharper-edged evening of entertainment in Manhattan, it involves juggling knives (2:20). Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, ptpnyc.org. (Gold)
'Unconstitutional' (closes on Thursday) Colin Quinn's entertaining spin through the history of our country translates wonky history into very funny jokes (1:05). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, cherrylanetheatre.org. (Jason Zinoman)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); SONG WRITING (74%); THEATER COMPANIES (74%); THEATER (74%); CHOREOGRAPHY (74%); WRITERS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



61 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: For Craft Brewers, New Law Opens Door to Competitive Market

BYLINE: By ELENA SCHNEIDER. 
eschneider@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Over a shot of whiskey in a New York City bar, Josh Horowitz and Zack Perry decided to make craft beer.
''Two guys walked into a bar and walked out with a brewery,'' said Mr. Perry, who moved to Texas to begin his venture with Mr. Horowitz.
This spring, Infamous Brewing Company, based in Austin, made its first deliveries to retailers, and it plans to produce up to 2,000 barrels in its first year. 
The efforts of Infamous Brewing and other craft brewers to gain a foothold in the Texas market received help this year with the biggest legislative overhaul the industry has seen in 20 years.
Lawmakers this year approved legislation that allows small breweries to sell their products to customers to drink in the brewery's tasting room. The old law prohibited any direct sales by a brewery, requiring samples to be free. Now these breweries can sell up to 5,000 barrels at in-house bars and beer gardens.
Additionally, brew pubs, which had been restricted to selling only at the brew pub, can now sell to distributors.
''In the old model, there were significant start-up costs because you had to hit certain production levels,'' said Charles Vallhonrat, the executive director of the Texas Craft Brewers Guild. But the new legislation allows brewers to sustain themselves on a smaller level, he said, ''by just selling on your premises and using those sales to grow.''
Mr. Vallhonrat said he expected that the new legislation would fuel tremendous growth in the industry.
The new state laws also leave room for more creativity in the recipe, said Josh Haley, the founder of Texian Brewing Company in Richmond, near Houston. He makes a watermelon wheat beer that customers can now pay to sample, meaning Mr. Haley can afford to adjust the brew to fit the feedback for his next barrel.
''We'll be able to have our market share dictate what we brew,'' Mr. Haley said.
Craft brewers have battled for years to loosen restrictions on distribution.
''The old-style distribution has served the big brands,'' Mr. Haley said.
Rick Donley, the president of the Beer Alliance of Texas, which represents wholesale distributors, spoke out against changes to the system in 2011. But this session, he led the charge to reform craft brewing license regulations, citing its economic potential.
''Craft brewing could end up being 10 percent of the overall marketplace,'' Mr. Donley said. From 2011 to 2013, craft brew permits in Texas, including brewpubs and production breweries, have grown from 70 to 115, said Carolyn Beck, a spokeswoman for the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
Small brewers and their supporters faced a mid-session challenge by another lobbyist for distributors, Wholesale Beer Distributors of Texas, which threatened to block the bills.
State Senator John Carona, Republican of Dallas, set up a timetable for stakeholders to make a deal. Wholesale Beer Distributors wanted to work with craft brewers, ''but not give away the store,'' said Randall Yarbrough, a consultant for the lobbying group. (Wholesale Beer Distributors is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)
Legislation by Mr. Carona said manufacturers could not sell their distribution rights, but the language was softened in negotiations to only prohibit cash payments for territorial distribution rights.
''The talks were certainly contentious,'' said Brock Wagner, the owner of the Saint Arnold Brewing Company in Houston. He said the compromise, while successful, showed the institutional pressures at work.
But Mr. Horowitz and Mr. Perry see the deal setting up big things for their small tasting room overlooking Lady Bird Lake in Austin. ''We may build a beer garden,'' Mr. Horowitz said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matt Bitsche, the chief engineer and head brewer at the Infamous Brewing Company in Austin, examined a tank used in the mashing process. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMIR KALIFA FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREWERIES (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BEER & ALE WHOLESALERS (78%); MARKET SHARE (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RETAILERS (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (69%)

COMPANY: CRAFT BREW ALLIANCE INC (92%); ACTRIS AG (92%)

TICKER: BREW (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (92%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (58%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



62 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: In Two Cities, Opposite Reactions to the Closing of State Jails

BYLINE: By BRANDI GRISSOM; Justin Dehn contributed reporting.. 
bgrissom@texastribune.org

 BODY:
The demise of the Mineral Wells Pre-Parole Transfer Facility, which officially closes at the end of this month, is a major economic disappointment for the community that has been its host for more than 15 years.
But the closing of the Dawson State Jail in Dallas, which will also happen this month, comes as a relief for many in the city, and might even result in a financial windfall.
For only the second time in the state's history, Texas lawmakers are closing inmate facilities to reduce bed capacity as the state's prison population continues to drop. The decision by legislators this year to close two privately run jails operated by the Corrections Corporation of America is being met with very different reactions in the communities where the jails are situated.
Since 2011, Texas' prison population has fallen to about 150,800 from more than 156,000, bringing the total of empty beds to about 12,000 statewide, said State Senator John Whitmire, Democrat of Houston, the chairman of the Senate Criminal Justice Committee. Improved diversion programs and alternatives to incarceration have fueled the downward trend, he added. 
''The logical thing to do is to look to close facilities you don't need,'' Mr. Whitmire said. In 2011, the state shut the aging Central Unit in Sugar Land, a Houston suburb.
When lawmakers started the regular legislative session in January, advocates for criminal justice reform and the prison employees' union urged them to consider ending the state's contracts at the Dawson jail and the Mineral Wells unit.
''Both facilities received a lot of very serious complaints,'' said Scott Medlock, a prisoners' rights program director and lawyer at the Texas Civil Rights Project.
Lawmakers eventually agreed, and sliced nearly $97 million from the Texas Department of Criminal Justice budget. The department's board officially decided to terminate its contracts for the two facilities with the Corrections Corporation of America when they expire on Aug. 31.
Jason Clark, a department spokesman, said the decision to close both privately run facilities was based on a number of factors, including safety and security at the units.
All of the inmates who were at the Mineral Wells jail have been transferred to other facilities, he said. The transfer of inmates from the Dawson unit began on Thursday, and Mr. Clark said it would be emptied by the end of the month.
Established in 1997, Dawson State Jail -- which is near the Trinity River, on the outskirts of downtown Dallas -- can house about 2,200 inmates, including nearly 1,400 women.
After the deaths of at least two female inmates and a newborn baby, the facility came under increased scrutiny in the last year, and faced lawsuits over the health care it provided to inmates.
In January, a group of civil rights advocates urged lawmakers to take notice of poor conditions and of a 2012 health services audit that found conditions at the facility that did not meet the terms of the Corrections Corporation of America's contract.
The corporation has defended its oversight of Dawson. In an e-mailed statement in January, the company said that the University of Texas Medical Branch provided health care at the Dawson jail and that the company took seriously its responsibility to oversee that care.
''It's unfortunate that these organizations are so closed-minded when it comes to facts and perspectives that might challenge their political agendas,'' Steve Owen, a company spokesman, told The Tribune in January, responding to a civil rights group's letter. ''C.C.A. simply provides safe inmate housing and quality rehabilitation programming at a cost savings to Texas taxpayers.''
But Dallas city leaders did not come to the company's defense in the Legislature. The jail is among a number of impediments to the Trinity River Corridor Project, a redevelopment effort that has long been in the works for the area. The project involves a 20-mile span of urban development that includes houses, waterfront condominiums, office buildings and shops and restaurants.
Senator Royce West, Democrat of Dallas, said he was unaware of any plans to sell the prison, and he said any talk of moving forward with development in its place anytime soon was ''speculation.'' But Mr. West did say that the closing of the Dawson jail was welcome news because of concerns about conditions there.
''If there's going to be a conversation about repurposing the facility,'' he said, ''the community needs to be involved in that.''
Mr. Clark, the Criminal Justice Department spokesman, said no decisions had been made about the future of the jails. ''We're going to work with both the local and state officials to really determine the best deposition for the facility,'' he said.
By contrast, in Mineral Wells, about 80 miles west of Dallas, local officials lobbied lawmakers vigorously to keep the state facility running. The jail, at what had once been a United States Army base, can house up to 2,100 inmates. It opened in 1989.
''It's going to have a significant impact on our economy,'' said Lance Howerton, the city manager of Mineral Wells. He said that the city would lose up to 300 jobs, $80,000 annually in local property taxes and $800,00 annually in water and sewer sales.
Mr. Howerton said that all told, city officials expected the economic impact to be about $40 million annually.
Corrections Corporation has become a partner in the community, Mr. Howerton said, offering scholarships each year for high school seniors and providing inmate labor for city projects and to help tend the local state park.
''Being a small community, most everyone here knows of someone'' affected by the closing, Mr. Howerton said.
Along with city officials, local lawmakers and lobbyists for the Corrections Corporation also fought unsuccessfully to keep the Mineral Wells facility open. Mr. Howerton called the decision to close it shortsighted.
With the state's ever-increasing population, Mr. Howerton said, there is sure to be a need for more prison beds in the future.
But Mr. Whitmire said he was confident that the state's continued focus on rehabilitation and diversion programs would keep the prison population from expanding. Even if it did, he said, the Mineral Wells facility would be a poor choice to house inmates because of security concerns.
The jail, which was not built as a place to put inmates, has long had problems with contraband. At one point, Mr. Whitmire said, officials hung a net above one side of the facility to keep passers-by from tossing items over the fence.
Lawmakers said they were expecting to save nearly $97 million by closing the two facilities -- money that Mr. Whitmire said could be more wisely spent on the criminal justice system.
''We're running a good program,'' he said, ''but we still have some flaws we've got to fix.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Inmates at a talk Wednesday at Dawson State Jail in Dallas. The jail, which holds 2,200 inmates, including nearly 1,400 women, is closing on Aug. 31. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PAROLE (90%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LITIGATION (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); TRENDS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); HISTORY (56%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%)

COMPANY: CORRECTIONS CORP OF AMERICA (85%)

TICKER: CXW (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561210 FACILITIES SUPPORT SERVICES (85%); NAICS487110 SCENIC & SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION, LAND (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



63 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Britain's Benchmark Rate Stays Unchanged on Signs of Improvement

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- The Bank of England kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged on Thursday amid tentative signs that Britain's economic recovery is strengthening.
The central bank held its interest rate at 0.5 percent, already a record low, and also made no change to its program of economic stimulus, leaving the target at 375 billion pounds, or about $570 billion. The British government had reported last week that the economy in the second quarter had grown 0.6 percent from the previous quarter and that all main industries were reporting faster growth for the first time in three years. 
''We're starting to see some real signs of momentum building,'' said James Knightley, an economist at ING. ''People feel more secure in their jobs, households feel richer as house prices rise. There's a real improvement of sentiment.''
After narrowly avoiding a triple-dip recession at the beginning of this year, Britain's economy has showed some signs of improving. The value of homes has increased, consumer sentiment is recovering and lending to small- and medium-size companies grew slightly. Still, some economists warned that Britain's recovery faced some headwinds -- including from inflation, which remains above the Bank of England's target of 2 percent. There also continues to be concern about slowing growth in Asia, and uncertainty about the euro zone economies.
The new Bank of England governor, Mark J. Carney, who moved into that post at the beginning of July, is expected to give more details next Wednesday about his plan to start providing some guidance on future interest rate changes. Some economists said such guidance, which the U.S. Federal Reserve has provided in recent years, would help eliminate uncertainty for consumers, company owners and investors and help strengthen the economic recovery.
Mr. Carney said in July that investors' expectations that credit would become tighter were ''not warranted.''
Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, has said that interest rates would remain at or below their current level of 0.5 percent for some time. The European Central Bank is expected to announce later Thursday whether it will leave its main interest rate unchanged -- as many analysts expect.
Recent economic data from the long-suffering euro zone has showed some signs of improvement lately, with manufacturers in Germany and France increasing production to meet growing demand. Still, growth in the euro zone and Britain, which is a member of the European Union but does not use the euro currency, lags behind that of the United States. On Wednesday, the U.S. government reported that the economy grew at an annual rate of 1.7 percent in the second quarter -- hardly a signal of boom times, but better than expected.
In Britain, house prices rose 0.3 percent in June from a month earlier and at a 1.3 percent annual pace, according to the real estate research firm Hometrack. An index measuring consumer confidence rose to the highest level in more than three years in July and unemployment claims dropped at their fastest pace in three years in June, according to the Office for National Statistics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EURO (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (88%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INFLATION (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



64 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: China Reports Increase in Manufacturing

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- A manufacturing index published by the Chinese authorities on Thursday provided an unexpectedly solid reading for July but did little to dispel the picture of an economy that is cooling more rapidly than many analysts had expected just months ago.
The reading, published by the National Bureau of Statistics, edged up slightly, to 50.3 from 50.1 in June, indicating that recent small-scale economic support measures announced by the authorities in Beijing might be aiding some parts of the economy. 
The slight increase confounded analysts' expectations that the index would slip below the 50-point mark, which separates expansion from contraction.
Underlining the lingering malaise within the Chinese economy, however, a separate manufacturing activity gauge published by the British bank HSBC came in at an 11-month low of 47.7. The figure, which was unchanged from the initial reading published last week, highlighted the tough environment that many Chinese companies still face. That goes especially for the small and privately owned companies -- many of them exporters that are struggling with sluggish demand and a stronger renminbi -- that are more heavily represented in the HSBC survey.
''With weak demand from both domestic and external markets, the cooling manufacturing sector continued to weigh on employment,'' Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC, said in a statement accompanying the release.
And economists at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group wrote in a note that the improved state index ''doesn't change our overall assessment of the deteriorating economy.''
Many analysts caution that Beijing's efforts to stem often opaque and unregulated lending activities outside the formal banking sector -- while welcome -- are likely to dampen economic activity. Slowing growth, meanwhile, could undermine the ability of some borrowers to service their debt, potentially leading to defaults and bankruptcies further down the line.
In a report published Thursday, for example, Standard & Poor's warned that many of the weaker players in the property sector -- a key pillar of the Chinese economy, the world's second-largest after that of the United States -- ''could find it more difficult or costly to borrow this year if the central government takes further steps to rein in 'shadow banking' activities,'' which it said were a major source of funding for developers that could not secure bank loans.
On the upside, Mr. Qu of HSBC noted, the string of recent weak data has prompted Beijing to introduce more targeted support measures, which he said ''should boost confidence and reduce downside risks to growth.''
The leadership that took the helm in Beijing in March has been insisting that the slowdown is not only desirable -- as part of its efforts to rein in excessive lending and bring about more balanced growth -- but also stable and sufficient to meet its target of a 7.5 percent economic growth rate this year.
But it has also prescribed a steady stream of small-scale, targeted support measures in a bid to ensure that growth does not cool too rapidly.
Those have included tax cuts for small businesses and measures aimed at speeding up railroad construction in inland and poor areas. In a bid to raise the economy's overall efficiency, the authorities have also issued instructions to more than 1,400 companies in 19 industries to cut excess production capacity this year.
Meanwhile, the central bank said July 19 that it would no longer set a minimum interest rate for corporate loans -- a symbolically important first step toward wider interest-rate liberalization.
''All of these things amount to a small-scale stimulus,'' said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist and strategist at the French bank Crdit Agricole in Hong Kong. Those steps, combined with more fine-tuning moves that are likely to follow in the next few months, are likely to lift economic growth to just above the official 7.5 percent growth target this year, Mr. Kowalczyk said.
''The new leadership cannot afford politically to miss that target during their first year,'' he said, adding that he expected moves aimed at bolstering consumer demand, like subsidies for big-ticket items or consumption-tax cuts, as well as a modest depreciation in the renminbi in the coming months.
Beijing's approach to supporting growth this year has been markedly different to that adopted in late 2008 and 2009. Back then, the authorities prescribed a powerful, big-bang stimulus program and loosened the reins on bank lending. Those moves helped China bounce back quickly from a sharp downturn set off by the global turmoil.
But they also helped cause property prices in many Chinese cities to soar, and set off a big rise in local government and corporate debt levels -- unpalatable side effects that the new leadership is now working to reverse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); STATISTICS (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (67%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANKING GROUP LTD (66%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); ANZ (NZX) (66%); ANZ (ASX) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (97%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); HONG KONG (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



65 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: The Big Banks' View of Proposed New Rules

 BODY:
To the Editor:
We take issue with ''Not Too Big To Fail'' (editorial, July 29), and those who believe there is a so-called government subsidy enjoyed by large banks, for several reasons. 
First, the interest rates that the largest American banks pay on their debt vary widely. This demonstrates that the market distinguishes among them based on creditworthiness and does not simply assume they are ''too big to fail.''
This market behavior is fully consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act, which expressly prohibits bailouts, providing regulators with the tools they need (but did not have before the crisis) to handle a large bank failure. These recent regulatory changes suggest the need for new analysis and research based on post-Dodd-Frank data, not outdated assumptions about a ''subsidy'' in the form of lower borrowing rates for big banks.
Second, let's not forget that the cornerstone of the federal safety net -- federal deposit insurance, funded almost entirely by large banks -- benefits small banks more than large. Whereas small banks are funded almost entirely by Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured deposits, large banks rely more on non-deposit funding, which is not government guaranteed and for which they pay market rates.
Finally, to the extent that large banks are able to fund themselves at a lower cost, it is not because they are too big to fail, but because they are well diversified and issue large amounts of debt, ensuring a liquid market that investors value. This benefit is also enjoyed by large nonfinancial firms and it reflects economic reality, not a government subsidy.
PAUL SALTZMAN New York, July 30, 2013
The writer is president of The Clearing House Association, which advocates on the behalf of some of the largest commercial banks doing business in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US DODD FRANK ACT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



66 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: Former Trader Is Found Liable In Fraud Case

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Updated, 10:03 p.m. | A former Goldman Sachs trader at the center of a toxic mortgage deal lost a closely watched legal battle on Thursday, giving Wall Street's top regulator its first significant courtroom victory in a case stemming from the financial crisis.
A federal jury found the trader, Fabrice Tourre, liable on six counts of civil securities fraud after a three-week trial in Lower Manhattan. The case had given both sides -- the government and Mr. Tourre -- a chance to repair their reputations.
For the Securities and Exchange Commission, a regulator dogged by its failure to thwart the crisis, the case offered a shot at redemption following one courtroom disappointment after another, including two similar mortgage-related cases that crumbled last year.
For Mr. Tourre, 34, who abandoned his trading career to pursue a doctorate in economics and become a teacher, the threat of being barred from Wall Street came second to the black mark on his name. 
Five years after Wall Street risk-taking nearly toppled the economy, the S.E.C. has taken only a handful of employees to court in connection with the crisis; most cases have been settled. The agency has not leveled fraud charges against one top executive at a big bank.
''He was the one that didn't get away,'' one of the nine jurors, Beverly Rhett, said after the verdict. ''The decision-making was a slow and arduous process,'' said Ms. Rhett, a retired teacher who was juror No. 2. ''We went over each item with a fine-tooth comb. We looked into the semantics and tried to understand them as best as we could.''
''We never felt there was anything that was cut and dry,'' she added.
The S.E.C. threw innumerable resources at Mr. Tourre's case, underscoring its importance to the agency. The onslaught began when the S.E.C. opened an investigation into Goldman after the 2008 crisis.
Lorin Reisner, then the No. 2 enforcement official at the agency, conducted all the pretrial depositions, a task typically assigned to lower-level investigators. When it came time for trial, the S.E.C. assigned Matthew T. Martens to lead the case, although he typically oversees the agency's trial lawyers without acting as one.
''There is no denying the importance of this to the S.E.C. because it is a financial crisis case,'' said Stephen J. Crimmins, a partner at the law firm K&L Gates and former deputy chief litigation counsel in the S.E.C. enforcement division, who was not involved in this case.
Yet even with the triumph over Mr. Tourre, the S.E.C. could still face scrutiny.
Some critics have questioned why the agency chose to make Mr. Tourre -- a midlevel employee who was stationed in the bowels of Goldman's mortgage machine -- the face of the crisis. Rather than aim at a high-flying executive, the agency pursued someone barely known on Wall Street.
Those concerns also arose in another S.E.C. crisis-era case, in which a jury cleared a midlevel Citigroup employee, questioning why the agency had declined to charge more senior executives. Even Ms. Rhett, the juror, after reflecting on Mr. Tourre's case, said, ''I could characterize him as somewhat of a scapegoat.''
''There are bigger fish out there swimming fat and free, and they made a lot more money from the mess than Tourre ever dreamed of making,'' said Erik Gordon, a professor of law and of business at the University of Michigan.
For its part, the S.E.C. notes that it has won about 80 percent of its trials under Mr. Martens and has sued 66 chief executives and other senior officers in cases related to the financial crisis. S.E.C. officials also note that the agency files cases only where they can be proved, even if that means not pursuing top executives insulated from the bad acts of their employees.
Andrew Ceresney, co-director of the S.E.C.'s division of enforcement, said in a statement: ''We are gratified by the jury's verdict finding Mr. Tourre liable for fraud. We will continue to vigorously seek to hold accountable, and bring to trial when necessary, those who commit fraud on Wall Street.''
It is unclear whether Mr. Tourre will appeal the verdict. A spokesman for Mr. Tourre declined to comment.
But a friend who dined with Mr. Tourre this week at Walker's Restaurant, a pub near the courthouse, said he appeared upbeat while discussing his doctoral program at the University of Chicago. ''He doesn't really care and finds the entire thing politically motivated,'' the friend, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said about the S.E.C.'s case.
After two days of deliberation, the nine-person jury concluded that Mr. Tourre had misled investors about the mortgage deal at the heart of the case. Of the seven charges against Mr. Tourre, the jury found him liable on six. He was found not liable of perhaps the most specific fraud charge, which contended he had knowingly made an untrue or misleading statement.
Juror No. 9, Leonel Lopez, 27, who works in advertising, said, ''I found Mr. Tourre's testimony to be genuine and the defense's case solid, but the evidence suggested that a number of S.E.C. violations had occurred.''
As the verdict was read on Thursday, Mr. Tourre sat emotionless, briefly glancing at the jury before fixing his stare elsewhere. When the jury shuffled from the courtroom, few made eye contact with him. Minutes later, he departed the building, carrying a copy of ''The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'' by Edward Gibbon.
Judge Katherine B. Forrest has the final say on the penalty Mr. Tourre must pay, be it forfeiture of profits or a fine. The fine could range from $5,000 to $130,000 for each violation.
Mr. Tourre could also be barred from the securities industry, but that decision lies solely with the S.E.C.
The S.E.C.'s victory reopens some wounds for Goldman, which is paying for Mr. Tourre's defense. Inside the bank, employees had been quietly cheering for Mr. Tourre, whom one executive called ''the poor kid.'' Viewing the S.E.C.'s case as thin, the executives saw Mr. Tourre as a proxy for the fight they wanted to wage with regulators.
Goldman settled with the S.E.C. in 2010, paying what was at the time a record $550 million fine. The bank conceded that it had made a ''mistake.''
On Thursday, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs said, ''As a firm, we remain focused on being more transparent, more accountable and more responsive to the needs of our clients.''
The verdict comes three years after the S.E.C. thrust Mr. Tourre into the spotlight with civil charges and a series of embarrassing e-mails. Those e-mails, in which Mr. Tourre referred to a friend's nicknaming him the ''Fabulous Fab,'' a moniker that has come to define Mr. Tourre's persona, transformed him from an obscure trader into a symbol of Wall Street hubris.
The S.E.C.'s case against Mr. Tourre hinged on the contention that he and Goldman sold investors a mortgage security in 2007 without disclosing a crucial conflict of interest: a hedge fund that helped construct the deal, Paulson & Company, also bet that it would fail. In his opening argument to the jury, Mr. Martens, the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer, depicted the commission's case as an assault on ''Wall Street greed,'' arguing that Mr. Tourre created a deal ''to maximize the potential it would fail.''
Mr. Tourre was living in a ''Goldman Sachs land of make-believe'' where deceiving investors is not fraudulent, Mr. Martens declared on Tuesday.
Throughout the trial, Mr. Martens invoked documents that Goldman had submitted to investors -- including a term sheet and a 66-page marketing book -- in which the bank said that the deal was ''selected by ACA,'' an independent company, without reference to Paulson & Company. Mr. Martens also cited an e-mail in which Mr. Tourre stated that the riskiest slice of the mortgage trade -- a piece typically bought by someone betting that the deal would succeed -- was ''precommitted,'' when in fact it was not even going to be offered.
The S.E.C. also used some of Mr. Tourre's love notes to a girlfriend who worked at Goldman to impugn his credibility. In one e-mail, he joked about selling toxic real estate bonds to ''widows and orphans.''
On the witness stand, Mr. Tourre acknowledged that the e-mail had been ''in poor taste.''
But he was confident that he did nothing wrong. ''I am here to tell the truth and clear my name,'' Mr. Tourre, whose fresh face and diminutive stature suggest he is much younger than his age of 34.
His lawyers portrayed him as a scapegoat who was 28 at the time of the crisis. The lawyers also noted that senior Goldman executives had approved the deal.
''The idea that Fabrice Tourre, a 28-year-old vice president, was conjuring up a $1 billion fraud, or conspiring with others, is just not supported by the evidence,'' Sean Coffey, one of his lawyers, said during his closing arguments.
Mr. Tourre's lawyers have argued that what Paulson & Company was doing should not have mattered to investors. The trade in question had to have an investor who was betting it would fail, and another betting it would rise -- a fact each side knew.
The verdict calls into question the decision by Mr. Tourre's lawyers not to call a single witness, a show of confidence that failed to impress a jury that also included a minister, a graphic designer and a former stockbroker. Some jurors appeared to nod off as the case became bogged down in financial minutiae.
On Thursday, as they emerged from the courthouse, several jurors appeared troubled. ''It was intense,'' one said. ''Exhausting,'' said another.
The mood was upbeat at a Starbucks down the street, where the S.E.C.'s legal team took shelter from the rain after the trial. They stood in a group near the doorway, tapping on their smartphones as they arranged train tickets home to Washington.
Mr. Tourre returned to the same place he had started each day: a cramped conference room in an apartment building next to the courthouse. Mr. Tourre, said one person in the room, was the only one there who was upbeat.
The war room, as his lawyers called it, was typically full of tinfoil containers from nearby fast food restaurants. A white board listed names of witnesses. Mr. Tourre often camped out in a smaller room littered with empty Diet Coke cans.
''It's home right now,'' he said recently, shrugging his shoulders.
William Alden, Michael J. de la Merced and Alexandra Stevenson contributed reporting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fabrice Tourre on Thursday. (A1)
Fabrice Tourre, center, with his lawyers outside court. On Thursday, a jury found that Mr. Tourre, who was a trader for Goldman Sachs, had misled investors in a mortgage deal that went sour. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Matthew Martens, the lead lawyer for the S.E.C., called the case an ''assault on greed.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VERDICTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); LITIGATION (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); DEPOSITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



67 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: The Sleeper in Health Care Payment Reform

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: An old plan for holding down health costs is being revived under the name of &#8220;reference pricing,&#8221; in which an insurer or an employer covers only a low-priced version of the good or service in question, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
In late June news organizations reported on a practical application in the United States of "reference pricing" for hospital care. 
The concept has been well known for decades to health policy wonks and already applied to prescription drugs in many other countries, but it is still novel in the United States. 
In the arsenal now being assembled on the payment side of health care to address rising costs, reference pricing may well turn out to be the sleeper, because it is a potentially powerful method of "putting the patient's skin in the game," the delicate phrase we use for "cost-sharing by patients." As it is able to shift significant market power from the supply side to the payment side of the health sector, reference pricing is much feared by the providers - physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical companies and others. 
Reference pricing also leads to concerns that it could be used simply for rationing by income class in disguise, unless good care is taken to enforce high quality standards for the health care being delivered.

In theory, the concept of reference pricing is simple. 
Consider any arrangement under which a third-party payer - a government program or a private insurer - protects individuals substantially from the cost of receiving a particular good or service, say, a drug aimed at a given therapeutic target or a hip replacement. Suppose different vendors of the good or service charge different prices for it. 
Prices may vary for one or both of two reasons. First, vendors may differ in their efficiency and cost of producing the good or service. Second, there may be differences in quality, with higher quality costing more to produce. In the case of prescription drugs aimed at a given therapeutic target, some drugs with fewer side effects may be higher priced because they are still under patent protection.
The market power of reference pricing stems from the fact that the third-party payer covers only a low-priced version of the good or service in question - the "reference price," leaving the recipient buying from a higher-priced vendor to pay out of pocket the entire difference between that higher price and the reference price. This cost-sharing method is thus more powerful in engaging patients in cost control than are co-payments or co-insurance. 
Under co-payments, even those tiered by product or producer - e.g., a generic versus a brand-name drug, or services delivered in community hospitals versus those delivered in academic health centers - patients have no interest in the full price being charged. To them, drugs of all kinds have, say, three different prices - their tiered co-payments. 
Under co-insurance, patients pay out of pocket a constant (or tiered) fraction of the full price of the good or service being covered, which does make them conscious of the full price being charged. But the third-party payer contributes more for a high-priced good or service than for a low-priced one.
Because prescription drugs, unlike most health-care services, are well-defined, standard products, it is not surprising that reference pricing was first widely applied to them, although mainly outside the United States. Germany's statutory health insurance system introduced it as early as 1989, much to the consternation of the pharmaceutical industry, which sees in the raw market power it unleashes a threat to its revenues and profits and its capacity for research and development. In the meantime, many other nations have followed suit.
As Panos Kanavos and I noted in our 2001 paper "Reference Pricing for Drugs: Is It Compatible With U.S. Health Care?" a number of economists have shared the drug industry's concerns. Their position is that patients are ill equipped to judge the relative clinical merits of different prices. Consequently, if on-patent brand-name drugs were pitted against generic drugs under reference pricing, the prices of on-patent drugs would inevitably collapse to the reference price. Some economists have even raised concerns over equity among patients. 
While reference pricing for prescription drugs is now employed in many countries outside the United States, American insurers and pharmaceutical benefit managers have so far relied mainly on tiered co-payments or co-insurance as forms of cost-sharing by patients in drug therapy, probably because the American pharmaceutical industry strongly objects to reference pricing and the insured might as well.
In health care in the United States, the first proposed application of reference prices actually appeared in quite another context, namely, Prof. Alain Enthoven of Stanford's concept of "managed competition." He first developed it in 1977 for the Carter administration under the label Consumer Choice Health Plan. 
At its core, the Enthoven plan is a defined-contribution plan for health insurance, pegged to the premium quoted for a relatively low-cost health plan - the reference price. Crucial to the design is a common, standard health benefit package and some mechanism for ensuring that the quality of the care rendered under each plan meets a satisfactory standard of quality in the eyes of the plan's sponsors. The chart below illustrates the core of the idea.
Professor Enthoven's design is now busily being reinvented under a new label, namely, "private exchanges." But basically it is the same idea developed more than three decades ago and largely disregarded by the employers in the intervening years. 
In the public sector, the idea of managed competition is now being reborn under the label of "premium support model." But it, too, is basically the same reference-price proposal developed by Professor Enthoven more than three decades ago.
In fact, there really has not been any notable innovation in the market for private health insurance since 1977, besides inventing new labels for the same idea. 
However, the application of reference pricing recently developed by the insurer WellPoint Inc. and the California Public Employees' Retirement System is relatively novel, because it takes place at the nexus of patient and providers of health care (other employees and insurers have experimented with this approach as well). This approach to controlling the prices of health care in the private sector is likely to augur things to come. 
Under WellPoint's design, employees are to be provided, for well-defined medical procedures, user-friendly information on their total prices and their quality. If employees pick a provider charging more than the employer has set as the reference price, employees must pay the difference out of pocket. 
This approach, more so than just bundled payments per episode of illness, has the potential of putting enormous price pressure on hospitals and physicians. WellPoint has reported that through this approach it has been able to reduce the cost (i.e., the price) of hip and knee replacements by 19 percent. 
How quickly reference pricing of this genre will spread depends crucially two factors.
First, it depends, as noted, on the full transparency, in user-friendly fashion, of the prices and the quality of health care rendered by competing providers of health care. 
Second, it depends on how receptive employees - the insured - will be to this innovation. 
This second issue is another story, worthy of a separate post. 

        
A World of Rising Health Care Costs
        
Health Spending: Watching for a Rebound
        
Hammurabi's Code and U.S. Health Care
        
The Bad Economy Behind the Health Care Slowdown
        
Shocked, Shocked, Over Hospital Bills

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (76%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PATENTS (72%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Wellpoint Inc; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Wellpoint Inc

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



68 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Client Outflows Continue at Man Group

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The Man Group, the world&#8217;s largest publicly traded hedge fund, beat analysts&#8217; estimates on its first-half earnings on Friday, despite continued client outflows. 

 BODY:
LONDON - The Man Group, the world's largest publicly traded hedge fund, beat analysts' estimates on its first-half earnings on Friday, despite continued client outflows. 
The hedge fund, which is based in London, has suffered from repeated client withdrawals in recent years, as the firm has struggled to generate returns for both customers and shareholders during the financial crisis. 
The Man Group said Friday that its funds under management fell 9 percent over the last six months, to $52 billion, as client outflows continued to surpass new sales. 
Despite the weak performance, the hedge fund said that its adjusted pretax income for the six months through June 30 reached $134 million, a 10 percent increase compared with the same period last year.
The Man Group's largest fund, AHL Diversified, struggled in the three months through June 30 and reported a 7 percent fall in its quarterly performance. The declines were attributed to volatility in both the bond and equity markets related to signs that the United States Federal Reserve may rein in its asset purchases. 
"While the first quarter of the year benefited from a more stable environment in financial markets, the second quarter was characterized by renewed volatility," the firm's chief executive, Emmanuel Roman, said in a statement. "Trading conditions remain tough and we do not see any improvement in the near-term outlook." 
Despite the pessimistic assessment, the Man Group's stock price surged on Friday as the market reacted positively to its earnings statement.
The firm's stock rose 5.3 percent in morning trading in London on Friday. The Man Group's share price had only risen 6 percent this year despite a broad rally in the world's financial markets.
To counter client withdrawals, the Man Group appointed Mr. Roman earlier this year and announced a major overhaul, including $270 million of expected one-off cost savings by 2015. 
The hedge fund also imposed a bonus cap for top executives, saying that annual cash bonuses would be no more than 250 percent of individuals' salaries.

        
Man Group Faces Further Client Outflows
        
Man Group Imposes Limits on Cash Bonuses for Executives

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BONUS PAY (85%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (70%) Company Reports; Hedge Funds; Man Group; Roman, Emmanuel; Financial Services; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: MAN GROUP PLC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Man Group

TICKER: EMG (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: Roman, Emmanuel

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



69 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Teenagers in The Times | July 2013

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: The latest monthly collection of stories about young people published in The New York Times. 

 BODY:
 A documentary from the series "The Lady Jaguars: Carroll Academy, Revisited."
In this monthly feature we collect everything published in The Times about young people so you can find it in one handy spot.
The next installment will publish on Friday, Sept. 6.
World | U.S. | Science and Health | Sports | Business and Economics | Arts | Education
 World 
Malala Yousafzai, Girl Shot by Taliban, Makes Appeal at U.N. 
 On her 16th birthday, Malala Yousafzai spoke at the United Nations and called on world leaders to provide "free, compulsory education" for every child. 
Despite Education Advances, a Host of Afghan School Woes
 For those who are working to make better schooling in Afghanistan happen - local Afghan officials, aid workers, teachers and students - there are concerns that much of the promise of improvement is going unfulfilled, and major problems are going unsolved. 
Report Finds Gradual Fall in Female Genital Cutting in Africa
 A comprehensive new assessment of the ancient practice of female genital cutting has found a gradual but significant decline in many countries, even in some where it remains deeply entrenched. 
Despite West's Efforts, Afghan Youths Cling to Traditional Ways

Interviews with dozens of Afghan youth paint a picture of a new generation bound to their society's conservative ways, especially when it comes to women's rights, one of the West's single most important efforts here. 
 U.S. 
Zimmerman Is Acquitted in Trayvon Martin Killing
 George Zimmerman, the neighborhood watch volunteer who fatally shot Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teenager, igniting a national debate on racial profiling and civil rights, was found not guilty of second-degree murder. He was also acquitted of manslaughter, a lesser charge. 
Demonstrations Across the Country Commemorate Trayvon Martin
 Thousands gathered in dozens of cities on Saturday to mourn the unarmed black teenager shot to death early last year, and to add their voices to a debate on race that his death has set off. 
For Chinese Families, a Journey Cut Short, and With It Their Dreams
 The Chinese teenagers from Zhejiang Province had to fly through Seoul, South Korea, and into San Francisco International Airport, where their plane clipped the edge of the runway, skidded and burst into flames. Two of the students were left dead on the tarmac - the only fatalities - as their classmates fled the burning aircraft. 
Along With Dolls and Stuffed Animals, Making Time for Immigration Activism
 Katherine Figueroa, 9 years old at the time, sat before a video camera and delivered a plea: "Mr. President, I want you to help me, and my family, and my parents. I want them back." 
Op-Ed | Broken Promises
 I believe that American Indian children are the country's most at-risk population, and sequestration is hurting them even more. 
F.B.I. Charges 159 Men With Forcing Teenage Girls Into Prostitution
 The Federal Bureau of Investigation said that a nationwide operation had led to the arrests of 159 men charged with forcing about 105 teenage girls to work as prostitutes. Some of the girls were as young as 13. 
Marathon Bombing Suspect, in First Court Appearance, Pleads Not Guilty
 In his first public appearance since he was captured hiding in a boat in a Boston suburb almost three months ago, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the surviving suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings, pleaded not guilty to 30 federal charges contained in a sweeping terrorism indictment. 
CVS and Walgreens Ban an Issue of Rolling Stone
 The cover image has drawn criticism that it glamorizes the surviving suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. 
 Science and Health 
Ready Access to Plan B Pills in City Schools
 Through a patchwork of nurses' offices and independent clinics at New York City schools, girls can get free emergency contraceptives. 
 Business and Economics 
No Six-Figure Pay, but Making a Difference
The Venture for America program offers jobs in start-up companies that aren't the usual magnets for recent college graduates.
The Demanding Off-Hour Escapes of China's High-Tech Workers
 A little-explored aspect of the global supply chain: the off-hour escapes that give the masses of workers the motivation to return to the assembly line. 
A 'Not-to-Do' List for Recent College Graduates
 College graduation: lofty commencement speeches are given, bright futures anticipated and, for some lucky college graduates, new jobs await. 
Frayed Prospects, Despite a Degree
 Even as the jobs picture slowly improves, the disadvantage of bad timing follows those who graduated during the worst years. 
Pivot TV Pitches to Young Viewers
 A channel for young people called Pivot that became available in 40 million homes. 
 Sports 
The Lady Jaguars: Carroll Academy, Revisited
 For nearly two decades, Carroll Academy, a one-hallway school set in the one-story wing of a former hospital, has been a catch basin for teenagers slipping through society's cracks. 
A New Life for the Mets Prospect Dominic Smith

A new life is unfolding for Smith since he signed a $2.6 million contract with the Mets, who selected left-handed-hitting first baseman with the 11th pick in last month's amateur draft. 
Pitcher Who Stayed in Japan Doesn't Stay on Mound
 The most sought amateur player in Japan last year, he made waves when he declared that he wanted to become the first Japanese player to jump directly from high school to the major leagues. 
Future Is Now for Young Stars
 Finding it increasingly hard to turn up elite baseball players, major league teams are giving more opportunities to younger athletes. 
 Arts and Style 
Jeremy Pope of 'Choir Boy' Talks About Stage Role
 Hailed for his "magnetic, moving performance" as Pharus Jonathan Young in the Manhattan Theater Club production of "Choir Boy," 21-year-old Jeremy Pope had to work up his courage to audition for the role after being turned down for the play's premiere run in London. 
Young, Ecstatic and on the Cusp
 The first national youth orchestra in the United States, whose players are 16 to 19 , rehearsed with the conductor Valery Gergiev. 
Every Teenager Should Have a Summer of '65
 The Catskills in summer. A girl meets a teenage boy. And a first boyfriend can become a lifelong friend. 
Danielle Brooks Stars in Netflix's 'Orange Is the New Black
Danielle Brooks, 23 and fresh from Juilliard, plays the imprisoned Taystee Jefferson on the new Netflix series "Orange Is the New Black."
Young Innocence? Been There, Done That
 The former teen stars Selena Gomez and Miley Cyrus are both still making music, but they are using it for different things. 
The Actor Will Poulter Talks About 'We're the Millers'
 In "We're the Millers," Will Poulter has a full-frontal sequence, he raps, and he makes out with Jennifer Aniston and Emma Roberts at the same time. 
World Stage Awaits a Student Repertory Company From the Bronx
 The student repertory company at Hostos Community College will travel across the Atlantic to join thousands of seasoned and heralded performers in Edinburgh, Scotland, for one of the largest and most prestigious arts festivals in the world. 
The Marginalized, Front and Center
 Peter Baryshnikov is following in the footsteps of his father, Mikhail - but not with jets and battements. 
 Education 
Students Recall Special Schools Run Like Jails
 During the past 15 years, a network of Utah-based "tough love" boarding schools for troubled youths has closed nearly two dozen programs amid claims of child abuse, which the schools have denied. 
Sex on Campus - She Can Play That Game, Too
 College men want to have casual sex, and women want romance, right? Increasingly, however, women are the ones looking to hook up. 
Room for Debate | Should Kids Go to Sleepaway Camp?
 Are children best off at summer camp or finding fun on their own? 
College Enrollment Falls as Economy Recovers
 The long enrollment boom that swelled American colleges - and helped drive up their prices - is over, with grim implications for many schools. 
Reflections on the Road to Harvard
 For two friends from Jackson, Miss., both low-income students, freshman year at an Ivy meant never letting doubt win out. 
Reflections on the Road to Yale
 A new student worries that he's done the one thing he feared most: let his family down. 
Go to full series 
Learn about teaching with "Teenagers in The Times" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TRAYVON MARTIN SHOOTING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (76%); FAMILY (76%); MURDER (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); WOMEN (76%); CHILDREN (76%); TALIBAN (76%); CONSERVATISM (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); MANSLAUGHTER (69%); ACQUITTAL (69%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (65%); AIRPORTS (65%); CRIME PREVENTION (64%); RACE & RACISM (64%); RACIAL PROFILING (64%); FIRES (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); IMMIGRATION (60%); NATIVE AMERICANS (57%); SHOOTINGS (56%); PROSTITUTION (50%) Teens in The Times

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (71%) EAST CHINA (77%) AFGHANISTAN (88%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



70 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1700 words

HEADLINE: 'The One That Didn't Get Away'

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: The former Goldman Sachs trader Fabrice Tourre lost a closely watched legal battle when a jury found him liable on six counts of civil securities fraud. | A special committee of Dell&#8217;s board is near a compromise with the company&#8217;s founder. | Richard S. Lee, who was hired by SAC Capital Advisors despite warnings, proved crucial for the government&#8217;s case against the hedge fund. 

 BODY:
TOURRE FOUND LIABLE IN FRAUD CASE | The former Goldman Sachs trader Fabrice Tourre lost a closely watched legal battle on Thursday, when a jury found him liable on six counts of civil securities fraud after a three-week trial in Lower Manhattan, DealBook's Susanne Craig and Ben Protess report. It was the first significant courtroom victory for the Securities and Exchange Commission in a case stemming from the financial crisis.
For the S.E.C., dogged by its failure to thwart the crisis and haunted by one courtroom disappointment after another, the case offered a shot at redemption. For Mr. Tourre, 34, who was accused of deceiving investors in a toxic mortgage deal, the threat of being barred from Wall Street came second to the black mark on his name. He has abandoned his trading career to pursue a doctorate in economics and become a teacher.
Though Mr. Torre was a midlevel employee stationed in the bowels of Goldman's mortgage machine, the S.E.C. threw innumerable resources at the case, making the trader the face of the financial crisis. Yet even with the triumph on Thursday, the S.E.C. could still face scrutiny; five years after the crisis, it has not leveled fraud charges against one top executive at a big bank. 
"He was the one that didn't get away," one of the nine jurors said after the verdict. "The decision-making was a slow and arduous process," the juror, a retired teacher, said. "We went over each item with a fine-tooth comb. We looked into the semantics and tried to understand them as best as we could."
In the aftermath of the case, a broader question arises, Floyd Norris writes in DealBook: "Why did Fabrice Tourre's security exist?" The mortgage security at the heart of the case "in no way helped to create capital for anything. It was a pure gamble. One side bet that the mortgage market would collapse. The other bet it would not."
DELL AND BUYERS SAID TO BE NEAR COMPROMISE ON TAKEOVER BID | A special committee of Dell's board is near a compromise with the company's founder, Michael S. Dell, over his takeover bid for the computer maker, which would have him pay more in exchange for altering the voting rules for the bid, a person briefed on the matter told DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced on Friday.
Mr. Dell and his partner, the investment firm Silver Lake, would pay $13.75 a share under the likely terms of the new agreement, Mr. de la Merced reports. They would also pay a special dividend of 13 cents a share. In return, the special committee would agree to change the rules for victory by no longer counting Dell shares not cast in the election as "no" votes. The agreement could push back a shareholder vote on the deal to September.
An announcement is expected before the market opens, though the agreement could still fall apart, this person said. On Thursday, the billionaire Carl C. Icahn said he had sued Dell in an effort to prevent the company and its board from altering terms of the vote, which had been scheduled for Friday.
ON THE AGENDA | The jobs report for July is out at 8:30 a.m. Chevron and Och-Ziff Capital Management report earnings before the market opens. Jeff Weiner, the chief executive of LinkedIn, is on CNBC at 11:40 a.m.
FIRED TRADER AIDES CASE AGAINST SAC | Hours after starting a new job at Citadel in 2008, Richard S. Lee signed into the hedge fund's accounting system and misstated the value of his holdings, an effort that would have inflated his returns by about $4.5 million, Ben Protess and Peter Lattman report in DealBook. Citadel, based in Chicago, fired him the next morning.
But Mr. Lee found a home at SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen that federal prosecutors have called a "magnet of market cheaters." Despite warnings from a Citadel employee and SAC's legal department, Mr. Lee was hired anyway. He has now become an important part of the government's criminal insider-trading case against SAC, which was announced last week.
Mr. Lee proved crucial for the government because of how he landed a job at SAC despite his earlier misstep, adding to questions about SAC's hiring practices and controls. DealBook writes: "People briefed on the investigation say that Mr. Lee also possesses a rich vein of information about other illicit activity at SAC, including potential insider trading in the shares of Gymboree, the children's clothing store."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
At Penney, a Number of Challenges Remain | "We see no evidence of a turnaround in the works," the analyst Deborah Weinswig of Citigroup, who had been a J. C. Penney cheerleader, wrote in a note to clients as she issued a sell recommendation on Penney shares. "Product on the floor is not resonating with core customers."
NEW YORK TIMES
Terra Firma Said to Approach Sale of Phoenix Energy | The private equity firm Terra Firma Capital Partners "is near an agreement to sell its Northern Irish gas distribution company Phoenix Energy Holdings Group to Hastings Funds Management Ltd., said two people familiar with the talks," Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Lloyds Banking Group Said to Seek Sale of Leasing Unit in Australia | The unit has a book value of $3.6 billion and a $625 million institutional loan portfolio, Reuters reports, citing three unidentified people familiar with the situation.
REUTERS
Board of Kabel Deutschland Recommends Vodafone Offer | 
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Royal Bank of Scotland Appoints New Chief Executive | The British bank named the head of its retail operation, Ross McEwan, to become its new chief executive, as it reported a $332 million net profit in the second quarter of the year.
DealBook 
Barclays in a Bind Over Capital | Barclays said three months ago that it believed it was "well capitalized." But it turns out a British regulator disagrees, Floyd Norris, a columnist for The New York Times, writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
A.I.G. Announces a Dividend | The American International Group announced its first dividend since it was rescued by the government in the financial crisis. The insurer also authorized a buyback of $1 billion of stock.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Singapore Wealth Fund Considers Investments in U.S. | 
FINANCIAL TIMES
Lloyds Poses Front-Running Risk for Barclays | Depending on timing, there could be competition for investor demand between two British banks as both weigh share sales, George Hay of Reuters Breakingviews writes.

REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
A Fallen Wall Street Programmer Tells His Side | Sergey Aleynikov, a former Goldman Sachs computer programmer accused of stealing computer code from the bank, is the subject of a profile in Vanity Fair.
DealBook 
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Sun Capital Court Ruling Threatens Structure of Private Equity | An appeals court ruling last week will make it harder for private equity funds to walk away from the unfunded pension liabilities of a portfolio company that goes bankrupt. But the case may have implications for tax law, Victor Fleischer writes in the Standard Deduction column.
Standard Deduction 
HEDGE FUNDS 
Client Outflows Continue at Man Group | The Man Group, the world's largest publicly traded hedge fund, beat analysts' estimates on its first-half earnings on Friday, despite continued client outflows.
DealBook 
A Peak at Steven Cohen's East Hampton Gathering | Lauren London, president of London Misher Public Relations, attended a dinner on Saturday hosted by Steven A. Cohen of SAC Capital Advisors and his wife, Alexandra, according to Bloomberg News. "It was not a party, no tuna, nothing lavish," Ms. London said.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Yelp Shares Soar on Report of Stronger Revenue | Shares of Yelp, the customer-reviews site, rose more than 23 percent on Thursday after the company reported second-quarter results that beat analysts' expectations.
ALLTHINGSD
LinkedIn Profit Rose 32% in 2nd Quarter | LinkedIn has reported a number of strong quarters since going public in 2011.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
HootSuite Raises $165 Million in New Round of Financing | HootSuite, which provides services to manage multiple social media accounts like Facebook and Twitter, said on Thursday that it has raised $165 million in new financing from a trio of investment firms.
DealBook 
RebelMouse Raises $10.25 Million in Financing | RebelMouse, a social publishing start-up, raised a Series A financing round led by Oak Investment Partners, SoftBank, Sterling Investment Partners and Michael Lazerow, the company announced on Friday.
REBELMOUSE
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
U.S. May Move Against Bank Over Jumbo Loan Securities | Regulators are investigating Bank of America and Merrill Lynch as both companies try to move past the problems of the financial crisis.
DealBook 
New York State Investigates Disqualification of Customers by Banks | The state's attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, sent letters to six banks seeking information about the use of databases that disqualify people seeking to open checking or savings accounts.
DealBook 
Banks Manipulated Key Rate for Derivatives, Regulator Finds | Bloomberg News reports: "U.S. investigators have uncovered evidence that banks reaped millions of dollars in trading profits at the expense of companies and pension funds by manipulating a benchmark for interest-rate derivatives."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Obama Considers 3 Candidates for Fed Chairman | In addition to Lawrence H. Summers and Janet L. Yellen, President Obama is interviewing a dark horse for the Federal Reserve chairman post, Donald L. Kohn, a former Fed vice chairman, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
European Central Bank Keeps Interest Rates Low | Still, Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, offered a slightly more upbeat assessment of the euro zone's prospects for growth.
NEW YORK TIMES
Citigroup to Pay $10.75 Million in Arbitration Case | A Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration panel ordered Citigroup to pay an award to a former customer over losses from investments in the Royal Bank of Scotland, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (93%); VERDICTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (63%); DIVIDENDS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (91%); MICHAEL DELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



71 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: An Employment Number That Isn't Budging

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: Although the unemployment rate fell to 7.4 percent, the share of American adults with jobs is stuck at just 58.7 percent. 

 BODY:
Welcome to the employment report!
You've probably noticed that our friends over at the unemployment report are feeling pretty good this morning. After all, the unemployment rate fell to 7.4 percent, the lowest level since 2008. 
But alas, our news is not as good. The share of American adults with jobs is stuck at just 58.7 percent.
Think about it this way: For every 100 American adults, 63 had jobs before the recession; now, only 59 do.
We are adding jobs, but we also are adding people. And since the recession ended in 2009, we've added jobs and people at about the same pace. 
The unemployment rate is falling nonetheless because it doesn't actually measure the share of people who are unemployed. It only counts people who are actively seeking work. And since the recession, a growing share of Americans are not even trying to find jobs. Some have given up; others appear to be avoiding the labor market by staying in school or at home.
That's not good for the economy. But it's not clear how much we can realistically aspire to raise the employment rate.
Part of the trend is driven by demographics. Americans are getting older, and retirees make up a growing share of the adult population.
Some of the damage caused by the recession may also be irreversible. The share of Americans on disability has soared, in part because the program is serving as a safety net for people who might have found work in better times. But once on disability, people almost never return to work.
Indeed, a recent report by the forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers predicted that the share of Americans in the work force is unlikely to increase. It predicted that more of those people would find jobs, increasing the employment rate modestly. But mostly, it said, this is the new normal.

        
The Age Equation in Employment Numbers
        
Financial Sector Continues a Rebound
        
Handicapping the Fed's Next Move
        
An Economy Stuck in Second Gear
        
A Job, at Last

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%) Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States Economy; The Jobs Report

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



72 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: An Economy Stuck in Second Gear

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: The United States economy is reliably growing, but too slowly to absorb the residual slack in the economy left over from the recession, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
At the risk of being too folksy by half, think of the economy as a car with a standard transmission where each gear corresponds to economic growth - first gear is 1 percent growth; second gear is 2 percent; recession is reverse, etc. (It's an easy analogy for me because I still drive a stick - the rest of you just play along.) 
According to recent reports on gross domestic product, growth over the first half of the year averaged 1.4 percent. Similarly, employment growth, including Friday morning's payroll report of a net gain of 162,000 in July, has been cruising along at a remarkably steady annual rate of 1.5 percent to 1.7 percent for over a year (since April 2012).
So what's wrong with that?
The problem is that we're stuck in low gears. Sure, first and second are better than reverse, and both the G.D.P. and job results confirm that the risk of going backward is low. We're reliably growing, but too slowly to absorb the residual slack in the economy left over from the Great Recession, even four years into an expansion that officially began in the second half of 2009. 
Basically, the economics of our situation is that we've settled into something slightly below trend growth - with "trend" being the pace of growth that would be acceptable if we had repaired the residual damage. The growth rates presented above may nudge the unemployment rate down a bit, as occurred last month - the jobless rate fell from 7.6 percent to 7.4 percent (though a bit of that was due to people leaving the job market) - but unless we accelerate into higher gears it will be years before we get back to full employment.
As The New York Times reported on Friday morning: "At the average rate of job growth seen so far this year, it would take more than seven years to close the so-called jobs gap left by the recession, according to the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution."
There's nothing wrong with trend growth, unless you settle into to it too soon. After a deep recession, there first needs to be a number of quarters of "bounce back," as demand that was pent up during the downturn helps to quickly close output gaps. But that's not something we've seen in the United States economy in recent decades. Our recoveries have been much too jobless and wageless for their first few years.
As any good standard transmission driver will tell you, second gear is something you pass through as you accelerate to higher gears and a faster trip to wherever it is you're going. There are a lot of working families out there who'd very much like to join that ride.

        
Long-Term Jobless: Still a Bleak Picture
        
Comparing Jobs in Recessions and Recoveries
        
Financial Sector Continues a Rebound
        
Handicapping the Fed's Next Move
        
A Job, at Last

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%) Gross Domestic Product; Labor and Jobs; Recession and Depression; Unemployment; United States Economy; The Jobs Report; Today's Economist

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



73 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Go East, Old Man: Duel in South Dakota

BYLINE: DEXTER FORD


HIGHLIGHT: Through Yellowstone and on to South Dakota, a tiny Honda-riding Dexter Ford makes his way into the Harley haven of Sturgis, S.D. 

 BODY:
 Dexter Ford is traveling from Southern California to upstate New York along mostly obscure roads, on a motorcycle that, by American standards, is quite tiny. This is the third of his occasional reports from the paths less traveled. 
After stewing in a natural hot spring, talking with a guy who reminded me of myself and generally relaxing, it was time to hit the road again. It's not far from the Grand Tetons to Yellowstone - the same $20 entrance fee lets you roam both parks for a week. I woke up in the Tetons with tent fever, packed everything onto my little Honda and headed north, head up, eyes peeled for exotic wildlife and ecstatic terrain.
Yellowstone is a pretty popular place in July, so much so that I was stressing about finding a place to camp. I had a reservation for the next night, but I showed up a day early, rode past the Campsite Full sign and threw myself at the mercy of the sweet woman at the Bridge Bay campsite window. 
I won the lottery - a beautiful site overlooking Lake Yellowstone. The campers around me were a melting pot of restless humanity. Up the hill, a loud scrum of Swiss college students, sending out acrid smoke signals whenever they threw the wrong thing on their fire. Next to me, a couple in a beat-up two-and-a-half-door Saturn - Lisa and Steve - who were running away from their jobs in San Francisco and splitting for Pennsylvania. Above them, an earnest pair of Korean-American families from Texas, erecting a Costco tent the size of the Jefferson Memorial.
Yellowstone is bigger than Rhode Island and Delaware combined, so I knew that if I wanted to make the most of staying there, I'd have my work cut out for me. I put up my tent and set out to see as much as I could whenever the bison and their admirers would get out of the way long enough to let me pass.
Yellowstone has bison the way New York has pigeons; they're everywhere. Many of them are content to chew their cud within arm's reach of the roads. S.U.V'.s stop dead in the middle of state highways, with a quarter-mile of stalled traffic behind them, to make sure that every child in the vehicle gets to take an identical picture of the beasts. I don't know if it is legal to ride around a bison jam in Wyoming, but more than once I idled past, hungry for the open road that would inevitably lead to the next bison jam.
Between steaming geysers, dizzying gorges and sulfurous mud volcanoes, I tried to see how far I could push my Honda's fuel economy. The speed limit was 45 miles per hour or less, and for once, I agreed with it completely. I had once hit a deer on a motorcycle, didn't like it one bit and was not about to add a 2,000-pound buffalo to my "ridden over" list. I burbled around the park in as high as gear as possible, amazed at how well it would run only a couple thousand r.p.m. over idle speed. I averaged 91 miles per gallon for the two tanks I burned in the park, which gave me a rare burst of moral superiority over the next Prius I saw.
Yellowstone National Park was spectacular, in a touristy sort of way, and Firehole Canyon, which is a hidden swimming hole where the local children throw themselves off cliffs, no matter what the signs say, was one of the highlights. Leaving the park, I headed east. That's when things began to change.
Sturgis, S.D., had a population of 6,627 as of the 2010 census. But on the first weekend in August it turns into the biggest city in the state. The Sturgis Motorcycle Rally, which has been held in one form or another since 1938, increases the population of South Dakota by about 50 percent each year during the long, beer-fueled, Harley-Davidson-centric weekend.
But I passed through the town in July, not August. The fun-hungry hordes of Harley riders had yet to arrive. So I peeled off into the Black Hills to take a cornering sabbatical. After all, how could anyone resist riding down a route called Spearfish Canyon?
The twisty road was a cold splash in the face after the hot, straight roads of eastern Wyoming. I felt like a Royal Air Force Spitfire pilot, arcing into high-banked turns for the joy of it, swooping daringly between incoming Messerschmitt Me-109s.
I approached a potential bogey from behind. It was a Harley guy, straight out of central casting. He had a Captain America helmet, but it was strapped to his sissy bar. He wore a leather-wrapped pony tail, his legs jutted out in a casually defiant manner on his bike's forward-mounted foot pegs. He wore perfect mirror-lens shades. Every fiber of his being said, "Don't mess with me."
So I messed with him. I swooped past and disappeared down the canyon. After a few turns I sat up, slowing down to enjoy the cool river air rushing through my mesh jacket.
Then I spotted a single headlight wavering in my mirrors, a few miles back on the dark green roller coaster. When I halted at a stop sign to head north toward Deadwood, the Harley guy throbbed up next to me. To catch me on my little road racer, he must have been working his laid-back Harley pretty hard. He refused to look at me. I felt like Dennis Weaver in his dusty red Plymouth Valiant, being intimidated by the malicious trucker in Steven Spielberg's road-rage classic, "Duel."
Side-by-side, we charged up the mountain. I was wringing everything I could out of my tiny 250-cc single, and he was cornering as hard as his bulky Hog would allow. It felt like a race, but between my underpowered Honda and his cornering-challenged Harley, we were barely touching the speed limit.
We rolled up and over the top. Now I had the advantage - more grip, better brakes and more cornering angle. But the guy was serious. Sparks trailed off his frame in the tighter corners. I finally put him behind me on a series of long, fast turns.
At the next light, he finally turned to acknowledge me.
"You ride that really well," I said. He just nodded.
When the obligatory afternoon thunderstorm hit, he pulled into the first gas station. I pulled into the second.
Taking off my dark-shielded helmet, I relaxed on the bench in front. I saw him trolling past, looking for shelter. He saw me, now revealed as a fellow gray-bearded old guy. He laughed and pulled his bike next to mine. With his shades off he morphed into a warm, funny, comprehensively bearded human being named Randy. He had come all the way from Alabama with just a couple of duffel bags lashed to his bike.
For a while there, I had thought I had finally met an unpleasant person on my coast-to-coast ride. In the end, though, Randy and I will probably exchange Christmas cards.

        
Go East, Old Man: Talking To Myself
        
Wheelies: The Holy Roller Edition
        
Fantasy at the 2013 Concours d'Elegance of America
        
Monday Motorsports: Marquez Wins MotoGP; Tragedy in Moscow
        
Honda Expands Fit Recall; Honda, Yamaha, G.M. Announce Recalls

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); CAMPING (90%); MAMMALS (89%); MOUNTAINS (76%); WILDLIFE (75%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); SPEED LIMITS (73%); FAMILY (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); LOTTERIES (52%) automobiles; Bison; Camps and Camping; Harley-Davidson Inc; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Motorcycles, Motor Bikes and Motorscooters; South Dakota; Wyoming; Automobiles; Harley-Davidson Inc|HOG|NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd|HMC|NYSE; Motorcycles; Motoring

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Harley-Davidson Inc; Honda Motor Co Ltd

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%) Harley-Davidson Inc; HOG; NYSE; Harley-Davidson Inc; HOG; NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd; HMC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (91%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) South Dakota; Wyoming

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



74 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Financial Sector Continues a Rebound

BYLINE: NELSON D. SCHWARTZ


HIGHLIGHT: The financial sector, hard hit in the financial crisis, continued a comeback in July, adding 15,000 jobs, including 6,000 in the securities industry. 

 BODY:
 The booming stock market isn't just evident from brokerage statements and 401(k) updates.
 In Friday's jobs report, the financial sector itself was a big winner, adding 15,000 jobs, including an additional 6,000 in the securities industry. Over the last year, the sector has added 120,000 positions. 
 The news comes one day after both the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrials set new records.
So far in 2013, overall employment in the financial sector has risen by just under 1 percent, close to the rate for the overall economy. But the financial sector remains about 6 percent smaller than it was at its peak in late 2006, while total employment is down by less than 1 percent over the same period, according to the Labor Department's survey of employers.
 Still, the trend over the last year signals a major turnaround for the financial sector, which was hard hit in the wake of the financial crisis. Total employment in financial activities stands at 7.9 million, although that is still well below the precrisis peak of 8.4 million reached in late 2006. 
 In the subcategory for securities, commodity contracts and investments - the closest thing to a Wall Street-type breakout - job growth has also been strong. This sector now employs 835,000 people, well above the low of 799,000 in 2010.
 That's a tiny number of positions in terms of the nation's jobs picture, but it has an outsize influence in New York and the surrounding areas. And although Wall Street may be among the least-loved sectors in the American economy, it also underscores how banks and other financial institutions have managed to stage a healthier recovery than other industries. 
 The manufacturing sector, for example, has actually shed jobs over the last six months, and with just under 12 million workers, employs two million fewer workers than before the recession. 

        
Handicapping the Fed's Next Move
        
An Economy Stuck in Second Gear
        
A Job, at Last
        
An Employment Number That Isn't Budging
        
Implications for Monetary Policy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); MONETARY POLICY (61%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States Economy; The Jobs Report

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



75 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Handicapping the Fed's Next Move

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: It&#8217;s not clear how the latest employment report will influence the course of Federal Reserve&#8217;s monetary policy. But it&#8217;s been a big day for forecasts nonetheless. 

 BODY:
What does the jobs report mean for the Federal Reserve? We don't really know.
And that makes it exactly the kind of question that financial analysts love to discuss. In a moment, some excerpts from the morning mail.
The Fed has tied its economic stimulus campaign to the unemployment rate. It has said that it will begin to taper and then retreat from its efforts as the rate falls below a series of thresholds, and that it hopes to begin the process later this year. 
The unemployment rate, which fell to 7.4 percent in July, is rapidly approaching the first of those thresholds. The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said in June that the Fed wanted to end its current round of bond buying around the time the rate hits 7 percent, which he predicted would happen by the middle of next year. That prediction is looking conservative, suggesting the Fed could start tapering when its policy-making committee meets in September.
But Fed officials have cautioned that they want unemployment to fall because people are finding jobs, not because they're leaving the labor force. And by broader measures, the job market remains weak. Growth is sluggish - just a 1.4 percent annualized pace in the first half of the year - and the share of American adults with jobs has actually fallen since the recession ended.
So the decision is unlikely to be clear-cut, particularly because Fed officials are divided about the benefits and the costs of the bond-buying campaign. 
And the decision is not going to be made this week. Officials will see six more weeks of economic data, including one more jobs report.
But enough with facts. Here are some predictions:
Martin Schwerdtfeger, TD Economics: "This weaker-than-expected reading and the negative revisions to the previous two months will demand more of an improvement in the upcoming data releases to cement the expectation that the Federal Reserve could begin to reduce its monthly asset purchases in September. A repeat of July's performance in August's payrolls would cast some doubts over the notion that economic momentum is decisively accelerating."
Ted Wieseman, Morgan Stanley: "This outcome may raise a bit of doubt about the likelihood of QE tapering starting in September, but we don't see it as meaningfully changing the Fed outlook with increasing signs of a turn higher in the overall economy moving into the second half and mostly positive indications for continued solid labor market improvement, even if they didn't show up so much in this report."
Gus Faucher, PNC: "The August employment data will be key to the Fed's decision as to whether to start reducing its purchases of long-term assets at its mid-September meeting. If job growth picks back up again and the unemployment rate holds steady at 7.4 percent then the Fed is likely to reduce its purchases somewhat. Another month of disappointing job growth and an increase in the unemployment rate could lead the F.O.M.C. to maintain its $85 billion of monthly purchases in the near term."
Peter Newland, Barclays: "For policy makers, this probably marks a release that rules nothing in or out. The August employment report, and the data flow between now and then, will likely prove decisive for the policy outlook."
Ian Shepherdson, Pantheon Macroeconomics: "The Fed is on track to hit its 7.2-to-7.3 percent Q4 unemployment rate target, and that probably matters more to F.O.M.C. members - especially the hawks and near-hawks - than the tiny slowing in payroll growth. The softness of wages in July is disappointing after recent signs of improvement, but that's a secondary concern. We expect a robust August employment report, and think September tapering is a 70/30 bet."
Kevin Logan, HSBC: "The unemployment rate fell to 7.4 percent in July, taking another step closer to the 7.0 percent level that Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke has flagged as a guidepost for the end of the current QE program. This leaves the door open for the Fed to potentially announce a reduction in its $85 billion per month asset purchases in September. However, Wednesday's G.D.P. report showed subpar growth in the first half of this year - averaging just 1.4 percent at an annual rate - well below the Fed's 2013 G.D.P. projection of 2.5 percent. We continue to expect that the announcement of Fed tapering will be delayed until December, dependent on the evolution of the economic outlook over the next six weeks."

        
Implications for Monetary Policy
        
Wall Street's Ideal Jobs Gain: Middling
        
A Bad Jobs Report Turns Out to Have Been Wrong
        
Who's in Charge of Fixing This?
        
Financial Sector Continues a Rebound

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BONDS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); RECESSION (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%) Federal Reserve System; Interest Rates; Labor and Jobs; Quantitative Easing; Unemployment; United States Economy; The Jobs Report

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



76 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: The Sweetness of Time Off

BYLINE: TONY SCHWARTZ


HIGHLIGHT: A growing body of evidence suggests that vacation time fuels greater productivity and more sustainable performance, the author writes. The key is to choose something truly renewing. 

 BODY:
The last several months have been, in many ways, the richest, most exciting and most creative period of my life. Still, as I prepare to take off most of the month of August, I'm feeling edgy, worn out and a bit overwhelmed. 
I'm sputtering to the finish line, running near empty. 
 "How often should you vacation?" I was asked after a talk I gave this week. It dawned on me that I'd let my own balance tip. My to do list had runneth over. I have not taken off more than two full days in a row for six months. 
The consequence is that I feel not just tired, but less able to think clearly and creatively, more at the mercy of my emotions. 
More than ever, we live in a culture that overvalues the ethic of "more, bigger, faster" and undervalues the importance of rest, renewal and reflection. I preach this lesson for a living, but I, too, can get so passionately immersed in my work that I intermittently forget to apply the lesson to myself. 
A growing body of evidence suggests that more overall vacation time - intense effort offset regularly by real renewal - fuels greater productivity and more sustainable performance. No research I've come across defines the ideal amount of vacation time, but my strong instinct is that if you're in any sort of demanding job, it makes sense to take at least a week of true vacation every three months.
I can choose to do that because I run my own business. Employees at my company get four weeks of vacation beginning in their first year - not just because it's better for their lives, but also because it makes them more effective at work. The United States is the only developed country that doesn't mandate employers to provide vacation time. Most companies do provide it, but often stingily and insufficiently. 
To my fellow leaders: Two weeks isn't enough if what you're seeking from your people is their best. Is there any doubt, for example, that the greater the demand, the more frequent our need to replenish and rejuvenate? Demand in our lives is rising so relentlessly that I'm beginning to believe even four weeks of vacation a year isn't enough. 
The most basic aim of a vacation ought to be restoration - physically, emotionally, mentally, spiritually. For me, that usually means not trying to do much. For you, it may mean travel and adventure, some form of physical challenge, an opportunity to learn something new or some blend of all three. 
The key is to choose something you find truly renewing. At a minimum, that usually requires changing channels - not doing whatever you have been doing. 
In my case, I plan to completely unplug from digital life for the next several weeks. Right now, I'm feeling the overload acutely. My brain feels like a pitcher of water filled to the brim. New information seems to spill out as quickly as I take it in. 
"What information consumes is rather obvious." the economist Herbert Simon wrote in 1970, before there was a digital life. "It consumes the attention of its recipients. Hence a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention." 
It isn't possible to row a boat across a lake - to move continuously toward a destination - and dive down into the water at the same time. I'm craving time free of urgent and immediate goals, so I can get beneath the surface of the urgent and swim around in the silent depths for a while. 
I want to metabolize what I've learned over the last six months and get a sense of what I ought to be focusing on next. 
For me, the luxury of taking extended time off - free from the noise of digital life and far from the madding crowd - is that it's a chance to rest and to reflect. 
We don't get our best ideas staring at our computer screens or sitting in meetings. They occur when we're in the shower, walking in nature, listening to music or working out. They occur to us when we're not seeking anything in particular. Distractions fall away when we're feeling relaxed and unhurried. The external volume drops, and it becomes possible to listen again to whatever arises inside us. 
I'm looking forward to those moments. I'm also looking forward to the moments when no thoughts arise and all I'm feeling is the pleasure of spending unhurried time with the people I love most. Nothing is more restorative. 
See you in September. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (79%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (76%); ETHICS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%) Paid Time Off; Life@Work; Top Headline 2

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



77 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: The Age Equation in Employment Numbers

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Some of the decline in the unemployment rate may be attributable to baby boomers&#8217; reaching the end of their working years. But the picture remains weak for those in their prime. 

 BODY:
The rosiest take on the jobs report is that the aging of the country's population has made the employment statistics look worse than they really are.
That rosy take, in brief, goes like this: Yes, the percentage of Americans with jobs may not have risen much in the last couple of years. But the unemployment rate has fallen substantially during that time, and the unemployment rate is a better measure of the health of the labor market because its calculation excludes people who have stopped looking for work. With more people aging into retirement - the leading-edge baby boomers are now in their late 60s - it's perfectly natural for more people to have stopped looking for work. The fact that the percentage of adults with jobs has held steady, rather than declined, is a sign that the economy is getting healthier. 
To figure out whether this take is basically correct (and whether thoseof us emphasizing the lack of increase in the employment-population ratio have been too downbeat), you can look at the employment-population ratio for people 25 to 54 years old. They are in the prime of their working lives, old enough to have graduated from high school or college and young enough not to be retired. 
Not surprisingly, a larger share of this group is employed than is the case for the overall population:
And the trend in the overall employment-population ratio does make the job market look a little bit worse than it truly is. As you can see in the chart below, the ratio for people between 25 and 54 has not dropped as much as the overall ratio since the downturn began in late 2007:
Yet it's hard to take too much comfort in this chart. The percentage of prime-age Americans with jobs fell sharply during the 2007-9 downturn. It did not budge from 2009 through mid-2011, before rising somewhat in late 2011. In the last year and a half, it has not risen much further.
The fairest conclusion seems to be that the economy really is weaker than the declining unemployment rate suggests. The aging of society should indeed change the way we think about jobs numbers - causing us to look more brightly on a gain of, say, 150,000 jobs and an unchanged employment-population ratio than we would have a decade or two ago. But the aging of the country isn't the main story. The economy's continued weakness is.

        
Financial Sector Continues a Rebound
        
Handicapping the Fed's Next Move
        
An Economy Stuck in Second Gear
        
A Job, at Last
        
An Employment Number That Isn't Budging

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); TRENDS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%) Age, Chronological; Baby Boomers; Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States Economy; The Jobs Report

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



78 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Who Abandoned the Health Insurance Credit

BYLINE: PHILLIP SWAGEL


HIGHLIGHT: It wasn&#8217;t Congressional Republicans who moved the health care debate away from a proposal to extend coverage through a tax credit, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Phillip Swagel is a professor at the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland and was assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department from 2006 to 2009. 
Bruce Bartlett's post this week provided the fascinating history of the tax benefit for employer-provided health insurance. His account of the recent political economy of health care tax policy, however, left out some developments that put the issue in rather a different perspective. 
As Mr. Bartlett noted, Senator John McCain in his presidential campaign proposed to change the tax exclusion into a flat credit of $5,000. People who purchase their own health insurance do not receive the tax benefit for employer-provided coverage but would have benefited from the McCain proposal. The credit would have been refundable, providing a tax benefit for health insurance to the millions of low-income families who do not have a positive income tax liability and thus likewise do not benefit from the deduction for employer-provided insurance.
The tax credit would have made an important contribution to addressing the problem of the uninsured that is a central focus of the Affordable Care Act. A health care "mandate" is only as meaningful as the penalty for not obeying the government's dictate. A $5,000 refundable credit would have been economically similar to a mandate, since those not purchasing health insurance effectively would be giving up $5,000 for their household. By contrast, the penalty under the Affordable Care Act for not taking up the mandate is as little as $95 a person in 2014, rising to $695 a person or $2,085 for a family in 2016. With the government writing $5,000 checks to people who buy health insurance, one might have expected insurance companies to devise policies that cost exactly the amount of the credit and then to make concerted efforts to enroll people. There would have been little need for Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, to solicit private donations for outreach to the uninsured.
Mr. Bartlett's post explains the merits of the McCain health insurance tax proposal. Not mentioned in the post, however, is that attacks on the McCain proposals featured prominently in the 2008 Obama campaign. These attacks were ironic inasmuch as the McCain tax proposal had actually been put forward by economists advising the Obama campaign. And then even more ironic since the Affordable Care Act includes a tax on health insurance despite President Obama's campaign stand. Also worth noting is that the tax on high-cost insurance plans under the act maintains the link between spending and tax benefits and thus does less to improve incentives than the McCain flat tax credit.
It is striking that Mr. Bartlett's post attributes to Republicans a "partisan political decision to abandon the McCain plan." Partisan political decisions did figure prominently in moving the health care debate away from the tax proposal extolled in the post. It is puzzling, however, for the critical focus here to be on Congressional Republicans.

        
The Path to Complexity on the Health Care Act
        
Health Coverage Worthy of a Senator
        
Dynamic Scoring Once Again
        
A Spurned Offer on Corporate Taxes
        
The Question of Taxing Employer-Provided Health Insurance

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (89%); FAMILY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); INSURANCE (72%) Bartlett, Bruce; Federal Taxes (US); Health Insurance and Managed Care; McCain, John; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Presidential Election of 2008; Republican Party; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; United States Politics and Government; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%) Bartlett, Bruce; McCain, John

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



79 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Models and Mechanisms (Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: How&#8217;s that supposed to work? 

 BODY:
OK, traffic is mysterious - and yes, I have read Tom Vanderbilt. Last week I fought rolling traffic jams all across CT in the middle of the day; today I zipped into Manhattan with barely a delay, late on a Friday afternoon. So I have a bit of time.
And self-indulgently, I want to talk a bit about macroeconomic theory. 
Simon Wren-Lewis posts partly about Japan, partly about the zero lower bound, partly about a very useful point from Chris Dillow that I somehow missed about the importance of mechanisms as opposed to models in economic analysis. 
What's that about? Actually, I don't think there's as clear a distinction as Dillow suggests, but I do see what he's talking about. Take the most widely used model in all of economics, supply and demand - and yes, it is a model, not a law of nature or a mystical truth. When we talk about supply and demand, we're talking largely about the notion that a rising or falling price can bring the quantity people want to sell into line with the quantity people want to buy; we even sometimes call it the "price mechanism". Supply and demand as a model then adds the proposition that prices will in fact rise or fall to achieve this outcome - but that's not quite the same thing as the price mechanism itself. And woe unto the economist who forgets that his claim that supply and demand get balanced must operate through the price mechanism.
Now, I would argue that the mechanisms we talk about in economics are themselves models - simplified representations of how people behave. But let's not get hung up on semantics: Dillow and Wren-Lewis are both right that a key part of economic wisdom is thinking about the mechanisms we suppose are acting in the real economy; on one side, these mechanisms may not be specific to a particular model, and on the other hand any model had better have persuasive mechanisms in it, or it's not helpful.
Which brings us to the macro issues.
In Econ 101 textbooks (mine included) it's standard to present the distinction between the long run and the short run with a picture something like this:
Here AD is the aggregate demand curve; more on that in a second. SRAS is the short-run aggregate supply curve, which is assumed to be upward-sloping because some prices and/or wages are sticky; LRAS is the long-run aggregate supply curve, which is vertical because in the long run price stickiness is assumed to go away.
Suppose aggregate demand falls for some reason, say a global financial crisis. Then what the textbook says happens is illustrated by the red arrows. First the economy contracts, then, over time, it expands again as prices fall. And this leads to the notion that demand-side stories are all bound up with the assumption of price stickiness, and in turn, as Wren-Lewis notes, to the adoption of real business cycle models by economists who couldn't stomach the deviation from perfect rationality that sticky prices seem to require.
But as Wren-Lewis also notes, before you say "I don't believe in sticky prices, or at least not except for very brief periods, and therefore I believe that the economy is almost always close to full employment", you should think though the mechanism by which flexible prices supposedly restore full employment. In the picture I just drew, the answer is that you slide down the AD curve. But why is the AD curve downward-sloping? Any plausible story runs through interest rates: either you have a fixed nominal money supply, so a rise in the real money supply drives rates down; or you have in mind some kind of stabilizing policy by the central bank.
And the point, of course, is that we are up against the zero lower bound. In terms of AS-AD, this surely leads to a picture like this:
Falling prices can't reduce interest rates, so it's hard to see why the AD curve should slope down [with a small caveat, below]; and in fact, because falling prices worsen the real burden of debt, it's a good bet that the AD curve slopes the "wrong" way. In this context price flexibility doesn't lead to full employment. In fact, the more flexible prices are, the worse the economic contraction.
And the zero lower bound isn't a hypothetical - it's what is actually happening out there in the real world. So it makes no sense to say "I don't believe in sticky prices, and therefore I don't believe in demand shocks"; what is the mechanism through which your assumed flexible prices restore full employment? 
Now, the reality is that prices and especially wages are sticky - which is why we don't see runaway deflation. But that stickiness isn't what's keeping unemployment high, it's just something we have to let into our models to make sense of what we see out there.
But it sure looks as if a lot of the economics profession has lost its way here. Younger economists in particular are vaguely aware that Lucas and co. made a fierce attack on the "microfoundations" of price stickiness; they think this "proved" that aggregate demand can't be a problem; and they don't realize that the whole argument dissolves into nonsense in the face of a liquidity trap.
OK, about that caveat: even in a liquidity trap, deflation could be expansionary if it is perceived as temporary, so that deflation now gives rise to expectations of future inflation. But if there are any real business cycle theorists using this as the core of their argument, I'll eat my microfoundations.
So back to the original point: we can argue about whether the models versus mechanisms distinction is really a clear one. No matter: at all times, but especially in these times, it's a very good idea to ask, when some economist offers a proposition about the economy, "Um, how exactly is that supposed to work?" You'd be amazed how often no answer is forthcoming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); TEXTBOOKS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



80 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Bank of New York Mellon Wins Sex Bias Case

BYLINE: SUSAN ANTILLA


HIGHLIGHT: The case involved a woman who was one of 11 people &#8212; 10 of them women &#8212; laid off by Bank of New York Mellon in 2010, and it was unusual that it ended up in court. 

 BODY:
A federal jury in New York decided Friday that a woman, who was one of 11 people in her division at Bank of New York Mellon laid off in 2010, was not a victim of sex discrimination. The case was unusual in that it even went to trial.
The plaintiff, Rochelle Cohen, a 56-year-old portfolio officer in the wealth management division of Bank of New York Mellon, lost her $124,000-a-year job on Sept. 20, 2010, in one of the rounds of post-financial crisis layoffs at the bank. Nine of the other employees in her division who lost their jobs were women. And Ms. Cohen testified at the trial that two years before she was fired, she asked her managers why she was not getting paid as much as the men. She contended that her managers became critical of her after she brought up gender issues.
The Federal District Court jury deliberated for just one day before delivering its verdict. Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the bank, said afterward, "We are pleased with the jury's unanimous verdict, which clearly confirms that Ms. Cohen's pay and performance were judged solely on the merits, not on her gender." 
Ms. Cohen said she was disappointed, "but I'm glad I fought the fight and hope it will make a difference for other women." Her lawyer, Milton L. Williams Jr., of the New York firm Vladeck, Waldman, Elias & Engelhard, declined to comment.
Most discrimination complaints by Wall Street women are either relegated to private, industry-run arbitration or settled before any jury gets a chance to review the evidence. The number of cases that make it to trial is further reduced because "a huge percentage that don't settle get dismissed in summary judgment," said Michael E. Grenert, an employment lawyer at the New York firm Liddle & Robinson.
Women in finance have not fared well in the years since the 2008 financial crisis, as their share of jobs among the nine largest firms dropped to 36 percent from 40 percent from 2007 to 2011, according to a report by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.
Ms. Cohen sued Bank of New York Mellon in January 2011 for gender discrimination and violations of the Equal Pay Act, seeking back pay, earnings lost after she was fired and punitive damages.
On Thursday, the jury heard closing arguments in the case after a seven-day trial. The testimony often diverted from issues of pay and promotion to focus on complaints about a bank salesman who had been reprimanded after reports that he had engaged in "inappropriate and unprofessional behavior" with female colleagues.
According to testimony at the trial, the bank's tristate region, covering New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, eliminated 10 women and one man from the wealth management division from July through October 2010. Doris P. Meister, president of U.S. Markets-Tristate at Bank of New York, told jurors on Thursday, "I can assure you gender discrimination did not play a role in this list."
Ms. Cohen, who had 21 years of experience in the financial services industry when she joined a predecessor company to Bank of New York in 2000, had been earning $120,000 to $150,000 in salary and bonus in the years before she moved to what was then the Mellon Financial Corporation. She accepted a base pay of $47,500 before bonus at Mellon, having been assured that she would be making more money "in no time," according to her complaint.
Ms. Cohen said in her complaint that the bank told her she was filling the only position available. But her lawyer told jurors that, after hiring her, the bank hired two men with comparable experience and paid them $100,000 a year more than she was making. The bank disputed that Ms. Cohen's experience was comparable to that of the two men, noting that they had educational and professional credentials that she did not have.
The loss of her job took a toll, she told jurors. "Being fired was probably the most humiliating thing that ever happened to me," Ms. Cohen said. "It was very abrupt. It was very upsetting." As a result of being fired, she said, her clients and contacts began to "assume that I did something wrong."
The bank's lawyer and witnesses dismissed Ms. Cohen's two decades of experience at brokerage firms as being downmarket to the fiduciary role Bank of New York Mellon provides to clients. Asked if the brokerage firm Morgan Stanley had a wealth management division, for example, Ms. Meister responded, "They call it wealth management."
In her 2007 performance evaluation, Ms. Cohen received an overall rating of "strong" out of four options that included below target, on target, strong and outstanding. Her manager remarked in that review that she'd had "a remarkable year."
Ms. Cohen testified that in 2008, she began to ask managers why she wasn't making more money, and that she wanted to make as much as her male peers. One of her former managers admitted in court that Ms. Cohen had brought up the possibility of unequal pay based on gender, but another bank official said she remembered only that Ms. Cohen inquired about making more money.
She had generated revenues of $1,695,000 for the bank in 2009, and her lawyer mentioned several times over the course of the trial that one of the male portfolio officers who earned more money had generated only $1,555,000 that year. Witnesses for the bank have testified that there were aspects of Ms. Cohen's revenue base that caused her accounts to be less profitable than some of her colleagues'.
Ms. Cohen currently works as a broker at the Signature Group of Companies, an insurance and financial planning company based in Garden City, N.Y. She earned $70,000 at Signature last year. "The market is placing a value of about $70,000 on her services," Lloyd Clareman, a lawyer for Bank of New York Mellon, said in his closing argument.
While Ms. Cohen argued that her career got off track after she began to question whether she was being paid less than the men, Mr. Clareman told jurors in his opening statement that Ms. Cohen had been on a strong career track until she made a "serious mistake."
According to witnesses for the bank, Ms. Cohen learned in 2005 that a woman she had once worked with, who subsequently was disfigured in an act of domestic violence, had just been hired. Bank officials testified that Ms. Cohen suggested that it had been a mistake to hire the woman because clients would see her. By Ms. Cohen's account, she had brought up the issue because she was concerned that the woman get the support she needed, and that her presence at the bank might pose security challenges given the history of violence by her former boyfriend.
The bank issued a written warning to Ms. Cohen in 2005, telling her she must stop discussing the new employee. Lilian Kandt, administrative and planning manager in wealth management marketing at the bank, told jurors that in her opinion, Ms. Cohen should have been fired for offering her opinion on the hiring of the woman. The incident was mentioned in her 2006 review, but by 2007, her manager was noting her "remarkable" year.
There was extensive discussion during the trial of behavior by a salesman at the bank, Peter Culver. Like Ms. Cohen, Mr. Culver had received a written warning from the bank. In his case, there had been complaints related to his behavior toward women.
Although the warning to Mr. Culver did not specifically mention it, one woman who was interviewed as part of the bank's internal investigation of Mr. Culver said he was "one of the more known men to ogle women." Another said that Mr. Culver would sometimes rub her back and, at the end of the day, blow kisses to her.
In a brief telephone conversation, Mr. Culver declined to comment.
Thomas Hurlbrink, managing director in wealth management sales, told a company investigator that Mr. Culver "loses eye contact with a person he is speaking with to stare at a woman," according to the investigator's notes, and that he had told Mr. Culver that such behavior was "creepy."
Mr. Hurlbrink told the investigator that he had hired a coach for Mr. Culver in 2011 and that the coaching initially was effective. But "the minute the coaching stopped, the behavior was back," he said.
Given the company's willingness to hire a coach for an employee who was described as "a little touchy feely with females" in a company investigation, Ms. Cohen's lawyer, Mr. Williams asked Patrick Crowe, managing director for the tristate region in wealth management, whether the bank had ever considered getting Ms. Cohen a coach.
There had not been any discussions about that, Mr. Crowe said.

        
Why So Few Women Reach the Executive Rank
        
After Boom-Boom Room, Fresh Tactics to Fight Bias

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); JURY TRIALS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); SUMMARY JUDGMENT (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); WOMEN (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); LAWYERS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (77%); DAMAGES (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); EQUAL PAY (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); BACK PAY (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (73%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (73%) Bank of New York Mellon Corporation; Discrimination; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Wages and Salaries; Women and Girls; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (95%); VLADECK WALDMAN ELIAS & ENGELHARD PC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of New York Mellon Corporation

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013



81 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: The Penalties, and Possible Appeal, for Fabrice Tourre

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: Now that Fabrice Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs trader, has been found liable for securities fraud, the case shifts to determining what remedies the court should impose. 

 BODY:
There was considerable skepticism that the Securities and Exchange Commission would be successful in its civil fraud case against Fabrice Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs vice president, in connection with the sale of a synthetic collateralized debt obligation. After suffering defeats, or at least significant setbacks, in other fraud actions arising from the financial crisis, many viewed the S.E.C.'s chances about as favorably as New York Jets fans feel about the quarterback Mark Sanchez.
The jury's verdict holding Mr. Tourre liable on six of the seven charges in the complaint may not be a ringing endorsement of how the government has pursued cases since the meltdown, but the court victory surely comes as a huge relief to the S.E.C.'s enforcement division. And that result is all the sweeter because the agency faced a defense team financed by Goldman, which still had a stake in the outcome despite its earlier $550 million settlement. 
Floyd Norris compared the C.D.O. to betting on the outcome of a football game, and like a sporting contest, the question in Mr. Tourre's case may well focus not so much on how the S.E.C. won but whether his lawyers lost it. 
Mr. Tourre's lawyers put on the Arthur Fonzarelli defense - "Aaaayy" - by resting without calling any witnesses. This is a high-risk strategy that tells the jury the opponent's case is so weak that the opponent need not deign to respond.
Of course, it was not exactly a trial without a defense because, unlike a criminal prosecution, the government put Mr. Tourre on the witness stand as part of its case. So his lawyers were able to offer his side of the story, which may in the end have hurt the case as much as the S.E.C. put on convincing evidence to prove a fraud.
The defendant's testimony often becomes the focal point of the trial because deciding whether there was a fraud can depend on the person's credibility. If the denials of any misconduct are believable, like Mr. Tourre's statement that "I haven't done anything wrong," then establishing intent to defraud or even negligence is almost impossible. 
On the flip side, if the jury does not accept the defendant's claims of innocence, then it becomes much easier to interpret equivocal evidence - like e-mails Mr. Tourre claimed were just "silly, romantic" statements to a girlfriend - as sufficient to establish fraudulent intent or recklessness. This is how a fraud case is built because no one writes a memorandum outlining their knowledge of misstatements, so these little snippets can make the difference between success and failure.
The S.E.C. also had the benefit of two witnesses, Laura Schwartz from the ACA Financial Guaranty Corporation and Gail Kreitman, a former Goldman saleswoman, who testified that they were misled about who was investing in the C.D.O. that Mr. Tourre helped put together. Unlike other cases in which the S.E.C. was unsuccessful, these were witnesses from inside Wall Street stating that the disclosures were inadequate.
Now that Mr. Tourre has been found liable for fraud, the case shifts to determining what remedies the court should impose. He will be subject to civil monetary penalties, which range from $5,000 to as much as $130,000 for each violation. 
In addition, the court can order Mr. Tourre to forfeit any profits from his violations. Goldman paid $15 million in disgorgementwhen it settled with the S.E.C. in July 2010, and it is unclear whether he received any specific benefit from the C.D.O. transaction beyond what the firm reaped from selling it.
The jury's verdict can also subject Mr. Tourre to a separate administrative proceeding before the S.E.C. to determine whether he should be barred from any association with the financial industry in the future. 
Section 925 of the Dodd-Frank Act expanded the S.E.C.'s power by allowing it to issue a broad order barring someone who engaged in fraudulent conduct from being associated with any broker, investment adviser or other type of securities firm, a prohibition which can be permanent. In addition, this remedy was extended to those no longer affiliated with the financial industry but who committed a violation while associated with a firm regulated by the S.E.C.
Mr. Tourre is studying for a doctorate in economics and may be headed for the verdant pastures of academia, so a bar might not have much effect. Yet he may want put his experience on Wall Street together with academic credentials to work in the world of finance, and any type of bar could make securing a position difficult.
It is not clear whether the S.E.C.'s authority to issue a bar from working in the financial industry, and the extension to those no longer associated with a firm, can be applied retroactively. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010, and the violations happened three years earlier.
The Supreme Court has explained that there is a general presumption against retroactive application of a statute unless Congress makes it clear that it wants a new law applied to past conduct. In Landgraf v. USI Film Products, the court explained that determining whether a statute came within this presumption required looking at "whether it would impair rights a party possessed when he acted, increase a party's liability for past conduct, or impose new duties with respect to transactions already completed."
The S.E.C. already ran into this issue when it tried to apply a Dodd-Frank provision retroactively by filing an administrative proceeding against Rajat Gupta for insider trading, which it was not authorized to do until after the law went into effect. Mr. Gupta challenged the S.E.C.'s procedural tactic in Federal District Court, and after a favorable ruling by Judge Jed S. Rakoff in Manhattan, the S.E.C. dismissed the administrative case and later refiled the charges in Federal District Court.
So if the S.E.C. seeks to bar Mr. Tourre from the financial industry, he can try to block the proceeding by arguing that retroactive application of the law would violate his rights by increasing his "liability for past conduct."
Regardless of whether the S.E.C. pursues a bar order, Mr. Tourre can appeal, with the legal fees continuing to be borne by Goldman. That means the case can drag on for another year or two as the two sides fight over whether the trial was conducted properly.
To paraphrase Winston S. Churchill, the jury's verdict looks like just the end of the beginning for Mr. Tourre.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]

        
Former Trader Is Found Liable in Fraud Case
        
Witness in Tourre Case Describes Difficulty in Knowing Deal's Friends From Foes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); WITNESSES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); NEGLIGENCE (78%); US DODD FRANK ACT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (76%); SPORTS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); ATHLETES (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (65%); SUBPRIME LENDING (65%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (65%) Collateralized Debt Obligations; Decisions and Verdicts; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Commodities Violations; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Tourre, Fabrice P; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GUARANTY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (92%) Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



82 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: In Complex Trading Case, Jurors Focused on Greed

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG, BEN PROTESS and ALEXANDRA STEVENSON


HIGHLIGHT: Jurors expressed sympathy for Fabrice Tourre, but their decision to find him liable in a toxic mortgage deal came down to what they saw as the letter of the law and concern about Wall Street greed. 

 BODY:
When nine New York residents shuffled into a cramped jury room in the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan on Wednesday, they were divided over Fabrice Tourre's culpability in a toxic mortgage deal sold to investors.
Then, over more than 13 hours, the five women and four men pored over reams of disclosure documents that Mr. Tourre and his employer Goldman Sachs had provided for investors in 2007, grappling with the nuances of the Securities and Exchange Commission's case. One juror, 32-year-old Tina Oommen, scribbled the various charges facing the former trader on a white board. Others scoured the voluminous transcript from the three-week trial.
Tension mounted among the nine - which included educators, a stockbroker, an Episcopal priest and a digital advertising employee who reads Esquire magazine - as the deliberations dragged on.
"It got really intense; it reminded me of religion," said the Rev. Beth F. Glover, the 47-year-old priest who initially struck a skeptical tone about aspects of the government's case. She questioned whether Mr. Tourre's supposed violation was "material," a finding that was needed to rule against the former trader. 
At 3:12 p.m. on Thursday, the jury reached a verdict. Mr. Tourre, they decided, was liable for six of the seven counts.
Interviews with five of the nine jurors, an eclectic group spread across Westchester County, Manhattan and the Bronx, pulled back a curtain on the private deliberations in the S.E.C.'s most prominent trial stemming from the financial crisis. The jurors, speaking from their homes and offices a day after the trial, described the genesis of their decision.
They expressed sympathy for Mr. Tourre, alternately calling him a "scapegoat" and a "willing participant" in Goldman's vast mortgage machine.
But ultimately, the jurors said, their decision came down to what they saw as the letter of the law and, for some, a broader concern that Mr. Tourre's actions underscored a fundamental problem with society: Wall Street greed.
"He is what Wall Street is all about and it scared me," Evelyn Linares, a school principal from the Bronx, said on Friday in an interview from her porch. "You go in thinking you can make a difference and you get sucked in."
The S.E.C.'s case hinged on its grim portrayal of Wall Street.
In his opening argument to the jury, Matthew T. Martens, the leading lawyer for the agency, depicted the case against Mr. Tourre as an assault on "Wall Street greed," arguing that the former trader had created a deal "to maximize the potential it would fail."
Mr. Tourre, Mr. Martens later declared in his closing remarks, was living in a "Goldman Sachs land of make-believe" where deceiving investors is not fraudulent.
That argument resonated with the jurors.
"Mr. Martens told us at the beginning that we would see this was all about Wall Street greed, and we did get to see that," Ms. Linares said.
And jurors said that they trusted Mr. Martens, with one describing the clean-cut lawyer as "Marine-like."
For Mr. Martens, the case was his final act at the S.E.C. He has already notified the agency's enforcement chiefs that he will soon depart for a white-shoe law firm, a person briefed on the matter said. Mr. Martens, the person said, is currently choosing between Latham & Watkins and WilmerHale.
For the S.E.C., whose credibility as a regulator came into question after failing to thwart the crisis, the jury delivered a long-sought courtroom victory. The triumph over Mr. Tourre follows one disappointment after another for the S.E.C., including two similar mortgage-related cases that crumbled last year.
In an e-mail to the trial team after the verdict, an S.E.C. official thanked the lawyers for securing a victory. "We needed this," the official said.
Still, some critics have questioned why the agency chose to make Mr. Tourre - a midlevel employee who was 28 at the time of the mortgage deal - the face of the crisis. Not one executive at Lehman Brothers, which filed Wall Street's biggest bankruptcy ever at the height of the crisis, was charged with wrongdoing.
Mr. Tourre's lawyers seized on that sentiment, painting the trader as a scapegoat who abandoned his Wall Street career to pursue a doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago. The lawyers also noted that senior Goldman executives had approved the deal.
The jurors were sympathetic to that argument. After reflecting on Mr. Tourre's case, Beverly Rhett, a former special education teacher known as juror No. 2, commented: "I could characterize him as somewhat of a scapegoat."
Ms. Glover, the priest, echoed those remarks. "It is a shame lower-level employees get pulled in," she said. "There's a part of me that felt it was very unfair."
Yet his lower-level status, jurors say, did not erase what he did.
"We were asked to look at his actions," Ms. Glover said, as she sipped coffee, with a button pinned to her shirt saying "We Care About Your Spiritual Needs."
"They portrayed him as a cog, but in the end a machine is made up of cogs and he was a willing part of that," she said.
Ms. Linares, the school principal, said, "We don't think he deserved to take the blame for everything but he did play along."
The scheme, according to the S.E.C., involved the marketing of a mortgage deal in 2007. At the heart of the agency's case was the claim that Mr. Tourre and Goldman sold investors the deal without disclosing a crucial conflict of interest: a hedge fund that helped construct the deal also bet that it would fail.
Mr. Martens also cited an e-mail in which Mr. Tourre stated that the riskiest slice of the mortgage trade - a piece typically bought by someone betting that the deal would succeed - was "precommitted," when in fact it was not even going to be offered.
Mr. Tourre, his lawyers argued, corrected that misstatement in offering documents that followed, calling that slice N/A or not applicable. But some jurors said they didn't feel that convincing, because the tranche the hedge fund bought was also listed as N/A when it wasn't.
His lucrative paycheck - $1.7 million in 2007, the year he assembled the mortgage deal in question - also swayed some jurors.
Still, Ms. Glover was not initially convinced. She debated whether it was "material" for investors to know the hedge fund's role in the transaction.
"Industry practice was also not to disclose," she said, reciting a line from the defense's playbook.
And when the S.E.C. quoted embarrassing love notes Mr. Tourre sent to his girlfriend, some jurors felt sympathy rather than condemnation. Ms. Linares also prayed for Mr. Tourre - and the other witnesses - every day during the trial.
Other jurors were more adamant that Mr. Tourre was liable. When they couldn't agree on a particular charge, they would shift to another issue.
"At times things got heated. We were trying to play both sides of the fence and there were times when we didn't agree on things," Leonel Lopez, the Esquire-reading advertising employee, added.
Mr. Tourre lost, the jurors said, despite performing well on the witness stand over three days.
In fact, some jurors questioned why Mr. Tourre's lawyers didn't keep him there longer.
"It was a big shock to us that they didn't ask more questions," Ms. Glover said. "He was likable and engaging," she said, adding it would have been easier for jurors if he was more villainlike.
While the loss also raised questions about the defense team declining to call a single witness, most jurors said that decision did not sway their vote. Mr. Lopez, 27, said the decision "didn't strike me as odd because they did get a chance to question the prosecution's witnesses."
According to legal experts, defense lawyers commonly present no defense when the government has already called their client as a witness.
"It's both a show of confidence and a tactic to get the jury to focus on the fact that the burden of proof rests with the government," said Evan T. Barr, a former federal prosecutor who now defends white-collar cases as a partner at Steptoe & Johnson. "I would not be second-guessing the decision."
A lawyer for Mr. Tourre declined to comment. Goldman Sachs, which settled its part in the case by paying a $550 million fine in 2010, also declined to comment. The bank has paid for Mr. Tourre's defense, and is likely to continue doing so.
While Mr. Tourre was the one on trial, the case weighed on jurors as well. Some traveled from more than an hour away each day, and then were forced to cram in work every evening.
Jurors were provided muffins or doughnuts by the court on some mornings. Nonetheless, Ms. Linares, on a special diet she started just before trial, says she lost 20 pounds - taking her muffin home for her 87-year-old mother.
"It's been a long three weeks," Reece Pate, 37, a graphic designer known as juror No. 7, said. "I'm trying to get back into my normal routine." 
For Ms. Rhett, the retired teacher, the trial ended just in time for her to make a cruise. Reached late Thursday night, Ms. Rhett said she returned home after the verdict and began to read media articles. 
"I had no idea how big the case was. I had not read anything or heard anything."
After the verdict on Thursday, Steven Zucker, the jury foreman, suggested a reunion, and Ms. Rhett collected everyone's e-mails. One person recalled Mr. Zucker, the former stockbroker, saying, "We should all go out for a drink." 
 William Alden contributed reporting. 

        
Former Trader Is Found Liable in Fraud Case
        
Deliberations Start in Goldman Trader's Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); TOXIC ASSETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); VERDICTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LAWYERS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); RELIGION (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Jury System; Martens, Matthew T; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Tourre, Fabrice P; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (92%) Martens, Matthew T; Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



83 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: The Right Leader for the Fed

BYLINE: STEVEN RATTNER


HIGHLIGHT: Larry Summers&#8217;s intelligence, analytical mind and extensive experience make him the top candidate to head the Federal Reserve. 

 BODY:
Let me start by getting the disclosure stuff out of the way. I've known Larry Summers for 20 years and have watched with particular interest as his multifaceted career has unfolded. More recently, I worked for him in the Obama administration, when he was director of the National Economic Council and I was the lead adviser on the auto bailout.
As the debate has intensified over who should slide into Ben Bernanke's chair as chairman of the Federal Reserve, Larry's critics have been piling on, including dredging up examples of positions or decisions where they believe he was wrong. 
No one is perfect, but I score Larry's batting average and qualifications at the top of the heap. There's that extraordinary intelligence: the most brilliant, most analytical and most surgical brain of anyone I've ever encountered.
That has helped him achieve a deserved reputation as a world-class economist - but one who has used his theoretical base to work on a broad range of real-world assignments.
His lengthy public service - which also included stints as chief economist of the World Bank and secretary of the Treasury - engaged him in a dizzying array of policy matters and thrust him to the front lines at times of crisis. And they provided him with the political chops of an experienced Washington hand.
As I worked away on autos, I saw, at close quarters, snippets of Larry's ability to bring all his experience to bear on the worst meltdown in decades. "He was the Rock of Gibraltar on trying to work through policies to turn the economy around," President Obama recently told House Democrats.
In his private-sector work, it is true that he has consulted for a variety of financial services firms, and that's being presented as a liability. But I believe that has given him an important practical understanding of how Wall Street functions that can only be helpful to a Fed chairman. Since when is having relevant experience disqualifying?
Certainly those involvements haven't impeded him from pushing back on the financial industry when appropriate. As early as January 2008, when most economists were focused elsewhere, he called for banks to hold increased levels of capital.
Later, during the effort to pass the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law, he took on the banking industry, noting that there were four times as many financial services lobbyists working on the issue as there were members of Congress. Larry deserves much credit for the tough legislation that emerged.
Last week, the Slate writer Matt Yglesias tweeted a 2010 speech by Larry, saying that "Summers delivered perhaps the most cogent overall case for the Dodd-Frank bill."
Remember also that as useful as Dodd-Frank will be in curbing future excesses, the recent meltdown wasn't so much a failure of legislation as a failure to exercise prudential regulation, including by the Federal Reserve. Having watched Larry's leave-no-stone-unturned style firsthand, I believe that kind of laissez-faire approach would be unimaginable in a Summers-led Fed.
Larry's vivid and sometimes strong personality has been well chronicled. Even as a friend, I approached the prospect of serving under him with some trepidation.
Boy, was I wrong. Working for him turned out to be stimulating, enjoyable and harmonious. I relished the give-and-take, the chance to watch that remarkable mind at work and the risk that if I said something undeniably stupid, he wouldn't hide his displeasure.
As we sat around his small West Wing conference table working through endless lists of seemingly intractable issues, Larry entertained any meritorious thought from any attendee, regardless of rank. Everyone got a say. At times, we even took votes. But at the appropriate moment, he was decisive and direct.
As near as I could tell, my thoroughly satisfying experience was similar to that of his other staffers. On reflection, I concluded that passing years, a searing experience as president of Harvard and some help from trusted aides had sanded down some rough edges.
More substantively, I'd stack Larry's judgments up against anyone's. For example, he was way ahead of the curve on the dangers of allowing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to continue to run amok.
"Debates about systemic risk should also now include government-sponsored enterprises, which are large and growing rapidly," he said in a 1999 speech.
Long before the 2008 financial crisis hit, Larry was warning about the dangerous blanket of complacency. "The main thing we have to fear is the lack of fear itself," he wrote in The Financial Times in December 2006. And then the following month, at the World Economic Forum at Davos, Switzerland, he said, "It's worth remembering that markets were very upbeat in the early summer of 1914."
That should make unsurprising Larry's steadfast support for a big stimulus package in 2009, a step that contributed mightily to the economic recovery. In response to those who thought it should have been larger, Mr. Obama cogently declared it a "bit rich" to blame Summers for the stimulus's not being larger when Congress could barely haul itself together to approve the roughly $800 billion measure.
The newspapers are full of accounts of what Larry does or doesn't believe about monetary expansion and the implicit question of whether he is a hawk or a dove. My answer is neither; when it comes to the ever-so-tough job of assessing whether the balance of risks should tilt policy toward fighting inflation or fighting unemployment, I would declare Larry dispassionate and pragmatic.
At the moment, that has led him to argue forcefully that the nation's economic risks are on the growth side rather than on the price-stability side, including supporting the Fed's actions and proposing that the government take advantage of exceptionally low interest rates to borrow for important investment projects.
With the economy still visibly fragile, that adds up for me to a compelling case for Larry Summers as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve.

        
Timothy Geithner's Legacy
        
Land of Plenty (of Government)
        
Inequality Is Holding Back the Recovery
        
How Wall Street Hid Its Mortgage Mess
        
Gotham's Only Black Millionaire

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); US DODD FRANK ACT (89%); DEREGULATION (86%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); CONSUMER LAW (67%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Federal Reserve System; Obama, Barack; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Summers, Lawrence H; Steven Rattner

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); STEVEN RATTNER (55%) Obama, Barack; Summers, Lawrence H

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



84 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Bank of New York Mellon Wins Gender Bias Case

BYLINE: By SUSAN ANTILLA. 
James B. Stewart, whose Common Sense column normally appears on this page, is away.

 BODY:
A federal jury in New York decided on Friday that a woman who was one of 11 people in her division at Bank of New York Mellon laid off in 2010 was not a victim of sex discrimination. The case was unusual in that it even went to trial.
The plaintiff, Rochelle Cohen, a 56-year-old portfolio officer in the wealth management division of Bank of New York Mellon, lost her $124,000-a-year job on Sept. 20, 2010, in one of the rounds of postfinancial crisis layoffs at the bank. Nine of the other employees in her division who lost their jobs were women. And Ms. Cohen testified at the trial that two years before she was fired, she asked her managers why she was not getting paid as much as the men. She contended that her managers became critical of her after she brought up gender issues.
The Federal District Court jury deliberated for just one day before delivering its verdict. Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the bank, said afterward, ''We are pleased with the jury's unanimous verdict, which clearly confirms that Ms. Cohen's pay and performance were judged solely on the merits, not on her gender.'' 
Ms. Cohen said she was disappointed, ''but I'm glad I fought the fight and hope it will make a difference for other women.'' Her lawyer, Milton L. Williams Jr., of the New York firm Vladeck, Waldman, Elias & Engelhard, declined to comment.
Most discrimination complaints by Wall Street women are relegated to private, industry-run arbitration or settled before a jury gets a chance to review the evidence. The number of cases that make it to trial is further reduced because ''a huge percentage that don't settle get dismissed in summary judgment,'' said Michael E. Grenert, an employment lawyer at the New York firm Liddle & Robinson.
Women in finance have not fared well in the years since the 2008 financial crisis, as their share of jobs among the nine largest firms dropped to 36 percent from 40 percent from 2007 to 2011, according to a report by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.
Ms. Cohen sued Bank of New York Mellon in January 2011 for gender discrimination and violations of the Equal Pay Act, seeking back pay, earnings lost after she was fired and punitive damages.
On Thursday, the jury heard closing arguments in the case after a seven-day trial. The testimony often diverted from issues of pay and promotion to focus on complaints about a bank salesman who had been reprimanded after reports that he had engaged in ''inappropriate and unprofessional behavior'' with female colleagues.
According to testimony at the trial, the bank's tristate region, covering New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, eliminated 10 women and one man from the wealth management division from July through October 2010. Doris P. Meister, president of United States Markets-Tristate at Bank of New York Mellon, told jurors on Thursday, ''I can assure you gender discrimination did not play a role in this list.''
Ms. Cohen, who had 21 years of experience in the financial services industry when she joined a predecessor company to Bank of New York in 2000, had been earning $120,000 to $150,000 in salary and bonus in the years before she moved to what was then the Mellon Financial Corporation. She accepted a base pay of $47,500 before bonus at Mellon, having been assured that she would be making more money ''in no time,'' according to her complaint.
Ms. Cohen said in her complaint that the bank told her she was filling the only position available. But her lawyer told jurors that, after hiring her, the bank hired two men with comparable experience and paid them $100,000 a year more than she was making. The bank disputed that Ms. Cohen's experience was comparable to that of the two men, noting that they had educational and professional credentials that she did not have.
The loss of her job took a toll, she told jurors. ''Being fired was probably the most humiliating thing that ever happened to me,'' Ms. Cohen said. ''It was very abrupt. It was very upsetting.'' As a result of being fired, she said, her clients and contacts began to ''assume that I did something wrong.''
The bank's lawyer and witnesses dismissed Ms. Cohen's two decades of experience at brokerage firms as being downmarket to the fiduciary role Bank of New York Mellon provides to clients. Asked if the brokerage firm Morgan Stanley had a wealth management division, for example, Ms. Meister responded, ''They call it wealth management.''
In her 2007 performance evaluation, Ms. Cohen received an overall rating of ''strong'' out of four options that included below target, on target, strong and outstanding. Her manager remarked in that review that she had ''a remarkable year.''
Ms. Cohen testified that in 2008, she began to ask managers why she was not making more money, and that she wanted to make as much as her male peers. One of her former managers admitted in court that Ms. Cohen had brought up the possibility of unequal pay based on gender, but another bank official said she remembered only that Ms. Cohen inquired about making more money.
She had generated revenue of $1,695,000 for the bank in 2009, and her lawyer mentioned several times over the course of the trial that one of the male portfolio officers who earned more money had generated only $1,555,000 that year. Witnesses for the bank have testified that there were aspects of Ms. Cohen's revenue base that caused her accounts to be less profitable than some of her colleagues'.
Ms. Cohen currently works as a broker at the Signature Group of Companies, an insurance and financial planning company based in Garden City, N.Y. She earned $70,000 at Signature last year.
While Ms. Cohen argued that her career got off track after she began to question whether she was being paid less than the men, Lloyd Clareman, a lawyer for the bank, told jurors in his opening statement that Ms. Cohen had been on a strong career track until she made a ''serious mistake.''
According to witnesses for the bank, Ms. Cohen learned in 2005 that a woman she had once worked with, who subsequently was disfigured in an act of domestic violence, had just been hired. Bank officials testified that Ms. Cohen suggested that it had been a mistake to hire the woman because clients would see her. By Ms. Cohen's account, she had brought up the issue because she was concerned that the woman get the support she needed, and that her presence at the bank might pose security challenges given the history of violence by her former boyfriend.
The bank issued a written warning to Ms. Cohen in 2005, telling her she must stop discussing the new employee. The incident was mentioned in her 2006 review, but by 2007, her manager was noting her ''remarkable'' year.
There was extensive discussion at the trial of behavior by a salesman at the bank, Peter Culver. Like Ms. Cohen, Mr. Culver had received a written warning from the bank. In his case, there had been complaints related to his behavior toward women.
Although the warning to Mr. Culver did not specifically mention it, one woman who was interviewed as part of the bank's internal investigation of Mr. Culver said he was ''one of the more known men to ogle women.'' Another said that Mr. Culver would sometimes rub her back and, at the end of the day, blow kisses to her.
In a brief telephone conversation, Mr. Culver declined to comment.
Thomas Hurlbrink, managing director in wealth management sales, told a company investigator that Mr. Culver ''loses eye contact with a person he is speaking with to stare at a woman,'' according to the investigator's notes., and that he had told Mr. Culver that such behavior was ''creepy.''
Mr. Hurlbrink told the investigator that he had hired a coach for Mr. Culver in 2011 and that the coaching initially was effective. But ''the minute the coaching stopped, the behavior was back,'' he said.
Given the company's willingness to hire a coach for one employee who was described as ''a little touchy feely with females'' in a company investigation, Mr. Williams, Ms. Cohen's lawyer, asked Patrick Crowe, managing director for the tristate region in wealth management, whether the bank had ever considered getting Ms. Cohen a coach.
There had not been any discussions about that, Mr. Crowe said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rochelle Cohen, was laid off from Bank of New York Mellon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JABIN BOTSFORD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 In 2010 the bank eliminated 10 women and one man from its wealth management division. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); JURY TRIALS (91%); DISMISSALS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WOMEN (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); SUMMARY JUDGMENT (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (77%); DAMAGES (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); EQUAL PAY (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); BACK PAY (70%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (68%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (95%); VLADECK WALDMAN ELIAS & ENGELHARD PC (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



85 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING | REGULATORY NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Backs U.S. Appeal On Chicken Tariffs In China

BYLINE: By ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization ruled in favor of the United States on Friday in a longstanding dispute over allegations that China unfairly imposed tariffs that restricted American poultry exports. The United States' appeal to the organization dates to 2011, after China said that America had engaged in dumping and had imposed tariffs on imports of so-called broiler products, which include most chicken items but not live chickens. China said American chicken producers benefited from subsidies and were exporting their goods to China at unfairly low prices. The trade organization found that China had breached its obligations and recommended that China comply with its rules. It did not specify the actions that China must take, however, and China can appeal. Officials at the Chinese Embassy in Washington could not immediately be reached. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); POULTRY (91%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); CHICKEN FARMING (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



86 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Marriage and Minorities

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW. 
Joe Nocera is off today.

 BODY:
We often hear that marriage is a panacea for our problems -- as a nation as a whole, and especially for the black community, in which more than 70 percent of children are now born to unmarried women.
Less discussed are the societal factors contributing to this phenomenon.
Let's start with this: while marriage may be losing a bit of its luster for some, it is still a desirable institution for most. 
According to a Gallup poll released Friday, a majority of American adults (54 percent) are married. Another fifth have been married or did not classify a marital status. Yet another fifth has never married but wants to.
And among younger people, nonwhites were less likely than whites to be married, but they were more likely to say that they wanted to be. Only 6 percent of whites and 12 percent of nonwhites said that they had never been married and didn't want to get married.
So most Americans -- both whites and minorities -- still believe in marriage, but there are factors working against marriage for many, factors that need to be acknowledged.
One is mass incarceration.
In the two decades preceding the Great Recession, the American prison population nearly tripled, according to the Pew Center on the States. And make no mistake: mass incarceration rips at the fabric of families and whole communities.
According to the 2011 book ''A Plague of Prisons'' by Ernest Drucker, a public health expert:
- ''The risk of divorce is high among men going to prison, reaching 50 percent within a few years after incarceration.''
- ''The marriage rate for men incarcerated in prisons and jails is lower than the American average. For blacks and Hispanics, it is lower still.''
- ''Unmarried couples in which the father has been incarcerated are 37 percent less likely to be married one year after the child's birth than similar couples in which the father has never been incarcerated.''
Related to mass incarceration is the disastrous drug war, which essentially has become a war on marijuana waged primarily against young black men, even though they use the drug at nearly the same rate as whites.
Then there's the Aid Elimination Provision of the Higher Education Act, a provision that took effect in 2000. It denied financial aid to students with drug convictions. A couple of years after it took effect, the American Civil Liberties Union called the law ''unjust and counterproductive'' and ''both morally wrong and unconstitutional.''
Researchers at Cornell found last year that the provision ''had a large negative impact on the college attendance of students with drug convictions'' -- that students who were affected delayed college enrollment or were made ''less likely to ever enroll in college,'' among other things.
Add to that the explosion in student loan debt, which has passed the trillion-dollar mark, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Such debt is now held by a record one in five households, said a Pew report last year.
But this debt crisis isn't evenly distributed. According to a report last year by the Center for American Progress: ''African-American and Latino students are especially saddled with student debt, with 81 percent of African-American students and 67 percent of Latino students who earned bachelor's degrees leaving school with debt. This compares to 64 percent of white students who graduate with debt.''
The debt burden is having a significant impact on marriage. A survey published in May by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants showed that 15 percent of respondents delayed marriage because of student loan debt.
Furthermore, for the poorest Americans, there are marriage penalties built into many of our welfare programs. As the Heritage Foundation has pointed out: ''Marriage penalties occur in many means-tested programs, such as food stamps, public housing, Medicaid, day care and Temporary Assistance to Needy Families. The welfare system should be overhauled to reduce such counterproductive incentives.''
This is not to explain away why people don't marry or delay marriage or have children before marriage, but to give the discussion context.
In a report financed by the Department of Justice a decade ago, Donald Braman, a George Washington University law professor, argued, ''For generations, social institutions from slavery and segregation to broadly punitive criminal sanctions have borne down unremittingly on poor and minority families and communities.''
One can't bemoan the breakdown of the family -- particularly the black family -- without at least acknowledging the structural and systematic forces working against its cohesion.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Wedding Bells and Blues: Martial status and interest among 18- to 34-year-olds (Source: Gallup poll conducted June 20-24, 2013) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRISONS (87%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (84%); FAMILY (78%); MEN (78%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); DRUG POLICY (65%); EDUCATION LAW (63%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (62%); CANNABIS (60%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



87 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING | MIDDLE EAST; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Yemen: Fighting Erupts Between Groups of Soldiers

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
At least two people were killed and five were wounded in clashes between soldiers once loyal to Yemen's ousted president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, and a rival army faction in the capital on Friday, the police and medical officials said. Hundreds of members of Yemen's elite Republican Guard, now dissolved, gathered near the presidential palace in Sana, the capital, to demand that the Finance Ministry pay them a Ramadan bonus. Demonstrations by soldiers protesting late salary payments from the government are common in Yemen, and often end in violence. A third of Yemenis live on less than $2 a day, and unemployment is estimated at 35 percent, with youth joblessness at 60 percent. Stability in Yemen is a priority for the United States and its Persian Gulf allies, who are concerned about Al Qaeda militants operating in a country that adjoins top oil exporter Saudi Arabia and overlooks major global shipping lanes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); AL-QAEDA (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (66%) YEMEN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



88 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Recovery in Europe Is Also Painfully Slow

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
THE number of unemployed workers in the euro zone fell in June, the European Union's statistical agency estimated this week.
The decline was not large -- 24,000 jobs, or 0.1 percent of the 19.3 million people out of work in May. But it was the first month in more than two years that there had been a decline.
Some, but not all, of that decline was in Germany, where unemployment has been falling even as it rose in other countries. Other euro zone countries that reported declines during the month were Austria, Finland, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Slovenia and Spain. Two of the 17 countries in the zone, Estonia and Greece, have yet to report. 
The accompanying charts show how the number of people unemployed has risen or fallen since March 2008, the month that overall unemployment in the euro zone hit its recent low. The charts also show the trends in two major countries outside the zone, Britain and the United States, where unemployment had bottomed out earlier. In the United States, the low was reached in October 2006, more than a year before the recession officially began.
It should be noted that the number of unemployed workers does not exactly equate to the number of people without jobs, which may be changing at a faster or slower rate. Discouraged workers who conclude they cannot get a job can drop out of the labor force, and thus not be counted. But when things begin to improve, those people can begin to search for employment and be newly counted among the unemployed.
Perhaps the most striking thing about the charts is how little improvement there has been in most of the countries shown. Germany is the striking exception to that, of course, and the number of unemployed in the United States has been falling steadily, if slowly, since 2010. On Friday, the government reported that the American unemployment rate fell to 7.4 percent in July, the lowest since December 2008. The number of people out of work in Britain fell in 2012 but has stabilized in recent months.
Among the most troubled countries in the euro zone, only in Ireland has there been a significant decline in the number of unemployed workers, although the figure remains nearly one and a half times as high as it was in 2008. In Greece, the number out of work appeared to stabilize late last year, but it began to rise again this year and was at the highest level yet in April, the last month for which data was available.
Perhaps the most extraordinary development has been in the Netherlands, where the number of unemployed workers has begun to rise rapidly after rising relatively slowly early in the credit crisis. Nonetheless, the latest unemployment rate for the Netherlands is only 6.8 percent, a figure that is lower than that of either the United States or Britain and about half the rate in Ireland.
For some countries, the reported unemployment rates remain very high. Although the number of unemployed workers in Portugal was reported to have fallen in both May and June, the unemployment rate remains at 17.4 percent, not far below the high of 17.8 percent reached in April. In neighboring Spain, two months of falling unemployment have reduced the rate by only 0.2 percentage points, to 26.3 percent. At least Spain no longer ranks as having the highest unemployment rate in the euro zone, as it did at the end of 2012. Greece, at 26.9 percent at last report, has regained that unfortunate position.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Unemployment Declines, but Not Everywhere: The number of unemployed people in the 17 euro zone countries declined in June for the first time in more than two years, falling 24,000 to 19,266,000. But the number of jobless remains at or near record highs in many counties in the euro zone other than Germany. Outside of the euro zone, the figure has declined significantly in the United States, but seems to have stopped falling in Britain. (Sources: Eurostat, Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (93%); EURO ZONE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); GREECE (88%); FINLAND (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); ESTONIA (79%); SLOVENIA (73%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



89 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Journalist Detained in Beijing, One Day After Human Rights Talk With U.S.

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

 BODY:
BEIJING -- A Chinese journalist who had pressed for the release of a prominent human rights activist was detained Friday, one day after the United States completed annual discussions with China on human rights.
The journalist, Chen Min, 51, widely known by his pen name, Xiao Shu, was called to a meeting with security officials in Beijing at around noon Friday. As he was questioned, he kept a friend informed by text message.
In his last message at 1:50 p.m., Mr. Chen said the officers wanted him to leave Beijing and were threatening him, the friend, Wang Gongquan, said. After that, frantic calls and messages to Mr. Chen went unanswered, Mr. Wang said. 
Mr. Chen had helped organize a petition calling for the release of Xu Zhiyong, a legal scholar who inspired a grass-roots anticorruption campaign calling for public officials to declare their assets. Mr. Xu, already under house arrest for more than three months, was detained on July 16 for seeking to ''gather people and disrupt social order in a public space.''
The detention of Mr. Chen came as an Obama administration official spoke at the American Embassy here Friday about the results of three days of meetings at the annual U.S.-China Human Rights Dialogue, which is now in its 18th round.
Uzra Zeya, assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and labor, said at a news conference that she had ''specifically called into question the pattern of arrests and extralegal detentions of public interest lawyers, Internet activists, journalists, religious leaders and others who challenge official policies and actions in China.''
The case of Mr. Xu, 40, was among those Ms. Zeya named as having been raised with the Chinese.
Mr. Xu has worked as a law lecturer, and was previously a member of a local legislative body, the People's Congress, in Beijing's Haidian district. In recent years, the college where he is employed, the Beijing University of Post and Telecommunications, has barred him from teaching.
Mr. Xu's recent call for party officials to declare their assets seemed to be in line with the campaign by the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, to eliminate corruption.
His main offense appears not to have been the cause he pursued, but rather his effort to mobilize a ''New Citizens Movement,'' which by some estimates had attracted several thousand people. Human Rights Watch estimates 16 people associated with the movement have been detained.
Two other activists who are serving prison terms whose cases were raised with the Chinese were Gao Zhisheng, who defended practitioners of Falun Gong, a religious group banned in China, and Liu Xiaobo, the Nobel Peace Prize winner, Ms. Zeya said.
The Americans raised the cases of more detained human rights activists, she indicated, than the eight identified by name at the news conference.
The United States government was deeply concerned, Ms. Zeya said, that the Chinese authorities had tried to silence activists by targeting their family members and associates. In that category, she mentioned the families of Liu Xiaobo and Chen Guangcheng, a legal activist who is now in the United States.
The detention of Mr. Chen, the journalist, came after he sent an e-mail Friday saying that he was prepared to endure arrest for the sake of Mr. Xu, the detained rights advocate.
''I have no other choice,'' Mr. Chen wrote in the e-mail, which he forwarded to a reporter. ''First, in the name of brotherhood, I must act for Xu Zhiyong, my friend of many years. Second, my bottom line is the advancement of civil society. If the authorities violate this bottom line and I go along, that would amount to the bankruptcy of the ethical framework that I have stood by for many years.''
Mr. Chen had worked as an editor and commentator at Southern Weekend, a weekly newspaper with a reputation for combative journalism that offended some officials. He was forced aside in 2011.
He has attracted a wide following among educated Chinese readers with impassioned and sometimes acidic criticisms of censorship and other political restrictions.
Mr. Xi has indicated that proposed economic reforms would not be accompanied by any significant political relaxation. He has instead repeatedly stressed his loyalty to party traditions and political orthodoxy.
On Thursday, Chinese state-run news media featured a commentary from the official Xinhua news agency that warned that if China embraced democratic ideas promoted by liberal intellectuals, it would succumb to turmoil worse than that in the Soviet Union after the collapse of Communism.
These unnamed liberal intellectuals were ''creating apocalyptic visions of China's imminent collapse and vilifying the present socialist system,'' the commentary said, accusing the liberals of ''blatantly inciting the public to serve as cannon fodder for triggering social turmoil in China.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CULTS & SECTS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); TEXT MESSAGING (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); RELIGION (69%); HOUSE ARREST (68%); ARRESTS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); NOBEL PRIZES (61%); PETITIONS (54%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (78%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (98%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



90 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; PREVIEW; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Reborn Cosmos Return to the Field

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

 BODY:
They were the Galaticos in the alternate universe of American soccer in the late 1970s and early '80s.
They were a collection of global superstars bankrolled by a worldwide entertainment conglomerate, Warner Communications, long before the words soccer and synergy were uttered in the same sentence, long before the Real Madrids and Manchester Uniteds of the world were global ''brands.''
The were the Cosmos, the flagship team in the North American Soccer League, a circuit that flashed all sort of possibility for the game in the United States, then burned as the oxygen was vacuumed from the room. Over the years, the N.A.S.L. and the Cosmos were derided and dismissed as abject failures, when they actually planted the soccer seeds that are now sprouting across the country as the game has taken hold and emerged in the 21st century.
The names are still familiar, and oddly, the word Cosmos is still recognized around the world, perhaps more so than in the United States where soccer fans younger than 40 have only videos and tall tales to relate to. 
The names: Pel, Carlos Alberto, Franz Beckenbauer, Giorgio Chinaglia (who died in April 2012), Johan Neeskens, Dennis Tueart, Shep Messing.
[Video: "Once In A Lifetime (The Extraordinary Story of The New York Cosmos)" Watch on YouTube.]
It is hard to rekindle memories of years past, kind of like finding an old girlfriend on Facebook 30 years after those flames of youthful infatuation took hold. But that has not stopped a new group, led by Seamus O'Brien, the founder and chief executive of Singapore-based sports marketing and media management company (backed by Sela Sports of Saudi Arabia) from relaunching, rebooting to use their term, the New York Cosmos in the latter-day version of the N.A.S.L. The league now is considered to be the second tier, second division if you will, of soccer in North America, though many of its owners have designs on joining, or perhaps overtaking Major League Soccer with a more spendthrift model. (Kind of like the old days!)
That team, wearing the old club's familiar green and white uniforms, will dare to try when it hits the field for the first time since 1984 when the N.A.S.L. opens its fall season against another name team from league history, the Fort Lauderdale Strikers, at Hofstra University's Shuart Stadium in Hempstead, N.Y., on Long Island on Saturday night. (This year the league split its campaign in two, taking a break between seasons. The Cosmos did not play in the first half.)
''All of us -- the coaching staff, the players, the front office -- we are very excited to get this new venture going,'' said Cosmos Coach Giovanni Savarese, who played for the MetroStars in M.L.S.. ''The Cosmos have such a special history, and it's wonderful to be a part of their rebirth. This weekend, against the Strikers, our old rivals, should be a great test. I can't wait.''
(On Thursday, the club announced a television deal with SNY, the cable network of baseball's Mets, to carry seven home games and present five episodes of ''Cosmos Classics,'' a highlight compilation.)
The reboot has been anything but neat and clean.
For years, the Cosmos were owned by Peppe Pinton, an adviser to Chinaglia who later became a club executive. He guarded the trademark but ultimately was unsuccessful in gaining entry to M.L.S. Several years ago he sold the name, club history, trophies and even unworn uniforms to the Englishman Paul Kemsley. He proceeded to spend lavishly on marketing the ''brand'' and spoke with great bombast but ultimately did not have the financial heft to make things happen, even though he managed to sign the former French and Manchester United star Eric Cantona to a contract and engineer a match at Old Trafford for the farewell game of United's Paul Scholes (which was not really a farewell at all).
In stepped O'Brien, a cagey and smart sports executive, who in the Cosmos sees a launching pad for soccer in America, a place he is convinced will be the focal point of the global game ''over the next 10 to 15 years.''
At first it appeared that O'Brien and the Cosmos had designs on becoming the 20th team in M.L.S. and second in the New York metropolitan area, after the Red Bulls. But those expectations did not come to fruition, partly because the Cosmos rejected the M.L.S. single-entity system and were loath to relinquish the marketing rights to their well-known name and logo. When talks between O'Brien and M.L.S. Commissioner Don Garber failed to produce an agreement, the Cosmos announced plans to build their own stadium at Belmont Park on the Queens/Nassau County border. (It is still awaiting approval from New York State.) The question remains whether a second division outfit in New York, regardless of its name, can attract attention with a roster of less-than galacticos.
For its part, M.L.S. appeared to flank the Cosmos when it announced that Manchester City of England's Premier League and the Yankees of baseball's premier league would be partners in the 20th M.L.S. team, beginning play in New York City in 2015. (Still to be determined is where that team will play. The league has been negotiating a stadium deal in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in Queens, though the club is expected to play at least part of its home schedule in Yankee Stadium.)
The current Cosmos roster includes Marcos Senna, 37, the Brazilian-born Spanish international; Carlos Mendes, 32, who spent eight seasons in M.L.S., most recently with the Red Bulls; the former United States international Danny Szetela, who has not played professionally in four years because of a knee injury; and a collection of other players who are household names only in their own households.
These are not your father's Cosmos, but is it a new beginning. Where it goes, how it goes is subject to the soccer gods in the United States, a place where leagues and teams have often come to die.
O'Brien is convinced that M.L.S. is on the wrong track, that the N.A.S.L. model is more attractive and could one day challenge M.L.S., perhaps forcing a merger or an accommodation that might, just might, lead to a system of promotion/relegation familiar to soccer fans around the world (but do not count on it). Though the recent announcement by M.L.S. that it plans to expand to 24 teams by the end of the decade may forestall any pie-in-the-sky plans from the junior circuit.
''The M.L.S. is unique to world soccer with a single-entity structure that runs contrary to the global economy of the sport,'' O'Briend told ESPNFC.com. ''You can't live in wonderful isolation forever, not when the rest of the world is based on a decentralized model that allows clubs to buy and sell players as they see fit. I'm not saying that we're going to bring Lionel Messi to the N.A.S.L. next season, but if we had the resources, we wouldn't be beholden to the other owners for their approval like the M.L.S. is.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); CELEBRITIES (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS FANS (73%); EXECUTIVES (63%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (63%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (91%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



91 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Despite Administration Promises, Few Signs of Change in Drone Wars

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- There were more drone strikes in Pakistan last month than any month since January. Three missile strikes were carried out in Yemen in the last week alone. And after Secretary of State John Kerry told Pakistanis on Thursday that the United States was winding down the drone wars there, officials back in Washington quickly contradicted him.
More than two months after President Obama signaled a sharp shift in America's targeted-killing operations, there is little public evidence of change in a strategy that has come to define the administration's approach to combating terrorism.
Most elements of the drone program remain in place, including a base in the southern desert of Saudi Arabia that the Central Intelligence Agency continues to use to carry out drone strikes in Yemen. In late May, administration officials said that the bulk of drone operations would shift to the Pentagon from the C.I.A. 
But the C.I.A. continues to run America's secret air war in Pakistan, where Mr. Kerry's comments underscored the administration's haphazard approach to discussing these issues publicly. During a television interview in Pakistan on Thursday, Mr. Kerry said the United States had a ''timeline'' to end drone strikes in that country's western mountains, adding, ''We hope it's going to be very, very soon.''
But the Obama administration is expected to carry out drone strikes in Pakistan well into the future. Hours after Mr. Kerry's interview, the State Department issued a statement saying there was no definite timetable to end the targeted killing program in Pakistan, and a department spokeswoman, Marie Harf, said, ''In no way would we ever deprive ourselves of a tool to fight a threat if it arises.''
Micah Zenko, a fellow with the Council on Foreign Relations, who closely follows American drone operations, said Mr. Kerry seemed to have been out of sync with the rest of the Obama administration in talking about the drone program. ''There's nothing that indicates this administration is going to unilaterally end drone strikes in Pakistan,'' Mr. Zenko said, ''or Yemen for that matter.''
The mixed messages of the past week reveal a deep-seated ambivalence inside the administration about just how much light ought to shine on America's shadow wars. Even though Mr. Obama pledged a greater transparency and public accountability for drone operations, he and other officials still refuse to discuss specific strikes in public, relying instead on vague statements about ''ongoing counterterrorism operations.''
Some of those operations originate from a C.I.A. drone base in the southern desert of Saudi Arabia -- the continued existence of which encapsulates the hurdles to changing how the United States carries out targeted-killing operations.
The Saudi government allowed the C.I.A. to build the base on the condition that the Obama administration not acknowledge that it was in Saudi Arabia. The base was completed in 2011, and it was first used for the operation that killed Anwar al-Awlaki, a radical preacher based in Yemen who was an American citizen.
Given longstanding sensitivities about American troops operating from Saudi Arabia, American and Middle Eastern officials say that the Saudi government is unlikely to allow the Pentagon to take over operations at the base -- or for the United States to speak openly about the base.
Spokesmen for the White House and the C.I.A. declined to comment.
Similarly, military and intelligence officials in Pakistan initially consented to American drone strikes on the condition that Washington not discuss them publicly -- a bargain that became ever harder to honor when the United States significantly expanded American drone operations in the country.
There were three drone strikes in Pakistan last month, the most since January, according to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, which monitors such strikes. At the same time, the number of strikes has declined in each of the last four years, so in that sense Mr. Kerry's broader characterization of the program was accurate.
But because the drone program remains classified, administration officials are loath to discuss it in any detail, even when it is at the center of policy discussions, as it was during Mr. Obama's meeting in the Oval Office on Thursday with President Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi of Yemen.
After their meeting, Mr. Obama and Mr. Hadi heaped praise on each other for cooperating on counterterrorism, though neither described the nature of that cooperation. Mr. Obama credited the setbacks of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, or A.Q.A.P., the terrorist network's affiliate in Yemen, not to the drone strikes, but to reforms of the Yemeni military that Mr. Hadi undertook after he took office in February 2012.
And Mr. Hadi twice stressed that Yemen was acting in its own interests in working with the United States to root out Al Qaeda, since the group's terrorist attacks had badly damaged Yemen's economy.
''Yemen's development basically came to a halt whereby there is no tourism, and the oil companies, the oil-exploring companies, had to leave the country as a result of the presence of Al Qaeda,'' Mr. Hadi said.
Asked specifically about the recent increase in drone strikes in Yemen, the White House spokesman, Jay Carney, said: ''I can tell you that we do cooperate with Yemen in our counterterrorism efforts. And it is an important relationship, an important connection, given what we know about A.Q.A.P. and the danger it represents to the United States and our allies.''
Analysts said the administration was still grappling with the fact that drones remained the crucial instrument for going after terrorists in Yemen and Pakistan -- yet speaking about them publicly could generate a backlash in those countries because of issues like civilian casualties.
That fear is especially pronounced in Pakistan, where C.I.A. drones have become a toxic issue domestically and have provoked anti-American fervor. Mr. Kerry's remarks seemed to reflect those sensitivities.
''Pakistan's leaders often say things for public consumption which they don't mean,'' said Husain Haqqani, Pakistan's former ambassador to the United States. ''It seems that this was one of those moments where Secretary Kerry got influenced by his Pakistani hosts.''
Congressional pressure for a public accounting of the drone wars has largely receded, another factor allowing the Obama administration to carry out operations from behind a veil of secrecy.
This year, several senators held up the nomination of John O. Brennan as C.I.A. director to get access to Justice Department legal opinions justifying drone operations. During that session, Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, delivered a nearly 13-hour filibuster, railing against the Obama administration for killing American citizens overseas without trial.
For all that, though, the White House was able to get Mr. Brennan confirmed by the Senate without having to give lawmakers all the legal memos.
And, in the months since, there has been little public debate on Capitol Hill about drones, targeted killing and the new American way of war.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry at the American Embassy in London. (POOL PHOTO BY JASON REED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); TERRORISM (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (64%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (96%); YEMEN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



92 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Highlights of the July Unemployment Report: Financial Jobs Rebound

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
The booming stock market isn't just evident from brokerage statements and 401(k) updates.
In Friday's jobs report, the financial sector itself was a big winner, adding 15,000 jobs, including an additional 6,000 in the securities industry. Over the last year, the sector has added 120,000 positions. 
The news comes one day after both the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrials set new records.
So far in 2013, overall employment in the financial sector has risen by just under 1 percent, close to the rate for the overall economy. But the financial sector remains about 6 percent smaller than it was at its peak in late 2006, while total employment is down by less than 1 percent over the same period, according to the Labor Department's survey of employers.
Still, the trend over the last year signals a major turnaround for the financial sector, which was hard hit in the wake of the financial crisis. Total employment in financial activities stands at 7.9 million, although that is still well below the precrisis peak of 8.4 million reached in late 2006.
In the subcategory for securities, commodity contracts and investments -- the closest thing to a Wall Street-type breakout -- job growth has also been strong. This sector now employs 835,000 people, well above the low of 799,000 in 2010.
That's a tiny number of positions in terms of the nation's jobs picture, but it has an outsize influence in New York and the surrounding areas. And although Wall Street may be among the least-loved sectors in the American economy, it also underscores how banks and other financial institutions have managed to stage a healthier recovery than other industries.
The manufacturing sector, for example, has actually shed jobs over the last six months, and with just under 12 million workers, employs two million fewer workers than before the recession.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



93 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Highlights of the July Unemployment Report: A Stubborn Number

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
Welcome to the employment report!
You've probably noticed that our friends over at the unemployment report are feeling pretty good this morning. After all, the unemployment rate fell to 7.4 percent, the lowest level since 2008. 
But alas, our news is not as good. The share of American adults with jobs is stuck at just 58.7 percent.
Think about it this way: For every 100 American adults, 63 had jobs before the recession; now, only 59 do.
We are adding jobs, but we also are adding people. And since the recession ended in 2009, we've added jobs and people at about the same pace.
The unemployment rate is falling nonetheless because it doesn't actually measure the share of people who are unemployed. It only counts people who are actively seeking work. And since the recession, a growing share of Americans are not even trying to find jobs. Some have given up; others appear to be avoiding the labor market by staying in school or at home.
That's not good for the economy. But it's not clear how much we can realistically aspire to raise the employment rate.
Part of the trend is driven by demographics. Americans are getting older, and retirees make up a growing share of the adult population.
Some of the damage caused by the recession may also be irreversible. The share of Americans on disability has soared, in part because the program is serving as a safety net for people who might have found work in better times. But once on disability, people almost never return to work.
Indeed, a recent report by the forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers predicted that the share of Americans in the work force is unlikely to increase. It predicted that more of those people would find jobs, increasing the employment rate modestly. But mostly, it said, this is the new normal.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



94 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Cuts Take Increasing Toll On Job Growth

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and CATHERINE RAMPELL; Jackie Calmes reported from Washington, and Catherine Rampell from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The number of federal workers forced to work shorter hours soared this summer -- to 199,000 in July, from 55,000 a year earlier -- in a sign of the problems that federal budget policy is causing for the economy.
The Labor Department reported on Friday that the economy continued to add jobs in July and that the unemployment rate fell to 7.4 percent, from 7.6 percent. But the pace of job growth slowed somewhat from the first half of the year and remains modest enough that the economy is years away from a full recovery.
Contributing to the hangover from the worst financial crisis in decades is a wave of cuts in domestic and military spending, known collectively as the sequester, which is causing government furloughs as well as job losses and curtailed hours among federal contractors.
Although the sequester became law on March 1, some of the effects, like the forced leaves, have begun to ramp up only recently. More job losses, rather than shorter workweeks, are predicted if the cuts remain in place into next year. 
Congress left on Friday for a summer recess of more than a month, after a week in which Republicans' divisions with one another and with President Obama suggested a new budget showdown may be coming in the fall. The disagreements leave no clear way to end the spending cuts that continue to slow the economy and could even lead to a more damaging government shutdown in October.
Corporate and academic economists say that Washington's fiscal fights have produced budget policies that amount to a self-inflicted drag on the economy's recovery.
Joseph J. Minarik, director of research at the corporate-supported Committee for Economic Development and a former government economist, said he could not remember in postwar times when fiscal policy was so at odds with the needs of the economy.
''The macroeconomic situation is highly unusual,'' he said, adding: ''We have to be concerned about our debt getting totally out of hand, so we are concerned about the federal budget. But the concern has got to be tempered by the fact that we have got to get some economic growth going as well.''
The effects of the cuts could be found in the details of Friday's jobs report. Although federal government employment did not decline in July as it had in previous months this year, the number of people who were working part time because they could not get their employers to give them full-time hours rose significantly. This probably reflects decisions by many government agencies to achieve their required budget cuts by forcing employees to take unpaid leave.
At the Department of Defense, for example, 650,000 civilians must take off 11 days without pay -- generally once a week -- through September, when the current fiscal year ends. The Internal Revenue Service likewise scheduled one furlough day a month from May through August.
On her first day at the Office of Management and Budget, Mr. Obama's new budget director, Sylvia Mathews Burwell, sought to meet employees and found many desks empty because it was a furlough day. And the new trade representative, Michael Froman, has struggled during his office's budget cuts to assign government lawyers to various negotiations abroad.
In the private sector, employment at government contractors also appears to be falling as companies that do government research, provide custodial services and retrofit federal properties to be more energy-efficient, among other things, are informed of contract cancellations or delays in bids for new contracts -- partly because the federal workers arranging the bidding are being furloughed.
''The disjunction between textbook economics and the choices being made in Washington is larger than any I've seen in my lifetime,'' said Justin Wolfers, an economics professor at the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan. ''At a time of mass unemployment, it's clear, the economics textbooks tell us, that this is not the right time for fiscal retrenchment.''
Given that rough consensus in an otherwise quarrelsome profession, he added, ''To watch it be ignored like this is exasperating, horrifying, disheartening.''
After the release of the jobs report, the first thought of many business forecasters was of the Federal Reserve, and what the data might suggest for its next move in September, when analysts believe it probably will begin tapering its stimulus measures known as quantitative easing. As the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has made clear -- including repeatedly to Congress -- the Fed has continued its stimulus policies in part to offset the drag from fiscal policy.
So economists are watching, too, what the White House and the Republican-controlled House will do this fall as they once again confront two looming deadlines. First is Oct. 1, when government operations would shut down unless the two sides agree on spending levels for the fiscal year that starts that day. Perhaps in that same month, the Treasury will run out of ways to buy more time and Congress will have to raise the nation's borrowing limit, or else risk financial crisis or even default.
''Over all, fiscal drag has likely reduced growth this year at least 1.5 percentage points, and isn't over yet,'' Bank of America Merrill Lynch wrote to clients on Friday. ''The last thing the economy needs is a repeat performance. A key part of our optimistic forecast for next year is that there is not a sustained shutdown this fall; the latest bickering leaves us a little more concerned.''
The uncertainty itself is causing some businesses to hold back on hiring or investing. ''Whether there's less fiscal drag, more fiscal drag, or a train wreck, we still really don't know,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR.
Congress's annual budget appropriations process was in chaos by the time lawmakers left town on Friday. Hardly any of the annual bills have gotten to the House or Senate floor yet, and Congress is scheduled to be in session just nine days in September before the Oct. 1 deadline.
In the House, Republicans are split over domestic cuts demanded by the most conservative members that would go deeper than sequestration. And the Democratic-controlled Senate has so far been unable to move measures that would raise spending above sequester levels, closer to the less restrictive amounts that both parties had agreed to in a July 2011 deal that ended an economically damaging showdown over raising the government's borrowing limit.
Senior administration officials and a group of Senate Republicans will continue to explore possible compromises during August, they say, but neither side sounds hopeful. Perhaps the best that can come of the fall showdown, according to people with knowledge of the issues, is a compromise that still would keep the so-called discretionary spending at the lowest levels in a half-century -- reducing the fiscal drag, but hardly providing the sort of stimulus that Mr. Obama has proposed.
''The private sector has been healing and that's helping to offset the adverse effects of the sequester. We're seeing the housing market turnaround, consumption has been a bit stronger the last couple of quarters,'' said Alan Krueger, a Princeton economist whose last day as Mr. Obama's chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers was Friday. ''But we know we can grow faster than 1.7 percent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Economists say that Washington's fiscal fights have produced budget policies that amount to a self-inflicted drag on the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); US PRESIDENTS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



95 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Two States Reflect Divide On Obama's Health Plan: A Coverage Effort Faces Hurdles in Missouri

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. -- Looking for the new health insurance marketplace, set to open in this state in two months, is like searching for a unicorn.
The marketplace, or exchange, being established by the federal government under President Obama's health care law has no visible presence here, no local office, no official voice in the state and no board of local advisers. It is being run like a covert operation, with no marketing or detailed information about its products or their prices.
While states like Colorado, Connecticut and California race to offer subsidized insurance to their citizens, Missouri stands out among the states that have put up significant obstacles. It has refused to create an insurance exchange, leaving the job to the federal government. It has forbidden state and local government officials to cooperate with the federal exchange. 
It has required insurance counselors to get state licenses before they can help consumers navigate the new insurance market. And, like many states, it has refused to expand Medicaid.
''It's like running an obstacle course every day of the week, but the course changes from day to day,'' said Herb B. Kuhn, president of the Missouri Hospital Association, a strong advocate of expanded coverage.
State Senator Rob Schaaf, the Republican author of a 2012 ballot measure that prevented the state from setting up its own insurance exchange, said: ''We can't afford everything we do now, let alone provide free medical care to able-bodied adults. I have a philosophical problem with doing that, and I'm also worried about our country's financial situation.''
Over 850,000 Missouri residents, including low-income people in St. Louis and Kansas City, family farmers and small-business employees, are uninsured. Many could qualify for coverage through the exchange, which encourages competition and offers subsidies to reduce costs.
Kenneth L. Schmidt, an insurance broker in St. Louis who intends to sell insurance products offered on the exchange, said: ''We have not seen any evidence of the federal exchange -- how it will be run, how it will be structured in Missouri. Will it be run from Jefferson City? Will it be run from Washington? Who will watch over it? No clue.''
David R. Griggs, who owns a carpet store with 15 employees in Columbia, Mo., said he was hungry for information about the exchange. But, he said, ''I have not seen or heard a word about it.''
Kat Cunningham of Columbia, the president of Moresource, a firm that handles payroll and benefits for more than 600 employers, said she had been deluged with questions from clients and was struggling to provide guidance.
She said her clients wanted to know: ''Where do we go to purchase health care coverage? How much will it cost us? If we can't afford it, what then?''
Private foundations and community groups have stepped into the vacuum. M. Ryan Barker, vice president of the Missouri Foundation for Health, said his organization planned to spend $8 million this year on a campaign to secure coverage for 200,000 of the uninsured. ''The state government is not doing a whole lot, its hands are tied, so we are taking on a bigger role,'' he said.
Jennifer G. Bersdale, executive director of Missouri Health Care for All, a grass-roots organization, has been educating thousands of people about what she sees as an exhilarating prospect. ''People who have been shut out of the market for years will soon be able to get good insurance, cannot be denied because of pre-existing conditions and can get financial assistance to afford it,'' she said.
Missouri is one of a handful of states where the federal government directly enforces the consumer protections of the Affordable Care Act because the state lacks the authority to do so. In 2010, Missouri voters overwhelmingly approved a ballot measure expressing opposition to the federal requirement for most Americans to have health insurance.
In November 2012, voters approved a ballot measure that prohibits the governor and other state officials from establishing or operating a state-based insurance exchange unless authorized by a vote of the people or by the state legislature. The measure says state and local officials cannot provide ''assistance or resources of any kind'' to a federal exchange unless such assistance is specifically required by federal law. It authorizes taxpayers and state legislators to sue state and local officials who flout its restrictions. The threat of lawsuits has made local officials cautious.
Gov. Jay Nixon, a Democrat, said debate on the ballot measures had been highly political. He has held dozens of events to promote the expansion of Medicaid, stressing its economic benefits for the state. But Republicans hold two-thirds of the seats in each house of the legislature.
''A core principle of public health is to increase access to health care,'' said Josephine P. Waltman, the health officer for Phelps County. But, she said, the ballot measure limits what local officials can do and is forcing them to consult lawyers.
As a result, Ms. Waltman said she and her staff would distribute general information about the insurance exchange, but would not sit down with people at computers to help them choose health plans and see if they qualify for subsidies. ''I would love to do that,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kat Cunningham, right, president of a Missouri business services firm, has been deluged with health insurance questions.
 David R. Griggs, who owns a carpet store in Columbia, Mo., said he has not ''heard a word about'' insurance exchanges. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (63%); LICENSES & PERMITS (53%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (51%); BALLOTS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JEFFERSON CITY, MO, USA (93%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (77%) MISSOURI, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



96 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Is Sluggish, But Rate Falls to 7.4%

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL; Nelson D. Schwartz and Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The painfully long and slow recovery of the American economy stumbled last month as employers added a disappointing 162,000 jobs, the government reported on Friday, leaving uncertainty about the timing of the Federal Reserve's plans to begin tapering its extraordinary efforts to revive healthy growth after the financial crisis that hit the world five years ago.
The unemployment rate, which comes from a different survey, gave a more encouraging signal, edging down to 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent in June. But the improvement was only partly a result of more people getting jobs. More people also dropped out of the labor force. The unemployment rate refers only to people who are actively looking for work. 
While the jobs report was lackluster, particularly compared to expectations that the economy might add closer to 200,000 jobs, many economists said the latest data was unlikely, on its own, to cause Federal Reserve officials to back away from plans to begin easing its stimulus policies. Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Fed, has said that the central bank would start reducing its monthly purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities ''later this year.'' Many Wall Street analysts have interpreted that comment as pointing to action as early as the Fed's meeting in September.
''The payroll numbers were a little disappointing, but the Fed has said it's more interested in the unemployment rate than the payroll numbers,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. He noted that the Fed's own forecasts put the unemployment rate around 7.2 to 7.3 percent at the end of this year, not far below the July level. Referring to inflation, he said, ''If anything, today's numbers would harden my view if I were a hawk and persuade me to become more hawkish if I were wavering.''
Not everyone agreed with that view, with several analysts suggesting the Fed might wait until December to take its first step. The mixed signals from July's jobs report will most likely focus even more attention on August's jobs snapshot, the last before the Fed's next meeting, scheduled for the middle of September.
''The committee needs to see more data on macroeconomic performance for the second half of 2013 before making a judgment on this matter,'' James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and one of the members of the Fed committee that sets interest rates who is more dovish on inflation, said in a speech on Friday.
Other indicators also painted a somewhat darker picture of the economy and the job market than was evident from reports earlier this year, with both average hourly wages and the length of the private sector workweek shrinking modestly in July. The job gains reported on Friday were concentrated in retail, food services, financial activities and wholesale trade, according to the Labor Department. Manufacturing gained 6,000 jobs, the first improvement since February, although economists caution that the timing of auto plant shutdowns in the summer can distort the numbers.
July represented the 34th consecutive month of job creation, but the latest pace of employment gains is still far below what would be needed to absorb the backlog of unemployed workers anytime soon. At the roughly 192,000-a-month average rate of job growth so far this year, it would take more than seven years to close the so-called jobs gap left by the recession, according to the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution. There are now 11.5 million Americans looking for work who cannot find it. That figure nearly doubles when two other groups of ''underemployed'' workers are taken into account: people who want to work but have stopped looking, and people who are working part time because they cannot secure full-time jobs. The number of Americans in so-called involuntary part-time employment has barely budged in recent years, and the total for July 2013 was exactly the same as a year earlier.
For these unemployed and underemployed workers, the social safety net that has been supporting them has frayed as a result of federal, state and local budget cuts.
''I honestly didn't think it would be this hard,'' said Keith Aiken, 38, who moved into a homeless shelter in Greensboro, N.C., about a month ago. His employer of more than a decade, a group home for people with disabilities, shut down last August, and he has been looking for work ever since.
After state officials ended North Carolina's eligibility for federal unemployment benefits last month, Mr. Aiken's benefits stopped and he was no longer able to pay his rent.
''Hopefully, something will come open pretty soon,'' he said, noting that he was looking into contract labor in Iraq or Afghanistan. ''I like to think I'm down but not quite out yet.''
The outlook for hiring is unclear, particularly since even the moderate rates of job growth in recent months do not seem justified by the weak gains in economic output. The nation's gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 1.7 percent in the second quarter and 1.1 percent in the first quarter, much slower than would be predicted from recent hiring trends.
Economic output and job growth seem unlikely to stay decoupled for too long, some economists say, in which case output growth should start to pick up, or job growth should start to slow, or both.
''I think with the economy showing 1 percent growth on average over the last three quarters, you're locked into 150,000 jobs per month for the rest of this year,'' said Steven Ricchiuto, chief United States economist at Mizuho Securities.
One other possible explanation for the seemingly incongruous trends in job and output growth is the mix of jobs being created.
''It's a lot of temp services, retail, food services, health care,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc.
''With low-end jobs contributing more than half the growth, the income generated would be not that great, and you wouldn't be expecting it to drive strong consumer spending.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A job seeker meets with a recruiter at the job fair. There are 11.5 million Americans looking for work who cannot find jobs.
 A job fair in Emeryville, Calif. Employers added 162,000 jobs in July, the government says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) CHARTS: The Labor Picture in July (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (66%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (62%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



97 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 53 words

HEADLINE: Quotation of the Day

 BODY:
''At a time of mass unemployment, it's clear, the economics textbooks tell us, that this is not the right time for fiscal retrenchment. To watch it be ignored like this is exasperating, horrifying, disheartening.''
JUSTIN WOLFERS, an economics professor at the University of Michigan Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTBOOKS (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (85%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (80%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



98 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1672 words

HEADLINE: Egypt General Has Country Wondering About Aims

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM; Mayy El Sheikh contributed reporting from Cairo.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- When Egypt's first elected president, Mohamed Morsi, promoted Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi to defense minister nearly a year ago, sweeping away an aging cadre of generals, many saw it as a triumph for the Islamist president, and for a fledgling democracy.
Mr. Morsi had seized back broad powers from the old guard, and General Sisi, known to be pious, seemed to have a close relationship with the new president, even sending Mr. Morsi a laudatory telegram. ''The men of the armed forces assert to your excellency their absolute loyalty to Egypt and its people, standing behind its leadership as guardians of the patriotic responsibility,'' it read.
Mr. Morsi is now a prisoner of the military, deposed by General Sisi on July 3 after mass protests against the president's rule. And the telegenic general, who has cast himself as protector of Egypt's security and its very identity, is riding a wave of muscular nationalism and pro-military sentiment that has led his adoring fans to liken him to former President Gamal Abdel Nasser. 
The conflicting perceptions of General Sisi -- seasoned officer reluctantly answering a call to serve, ambitious man with a ''sense of destiny,'' as one person who knows him put it -- leave much of Egypt wondering whether he intends to return the country to civilian rule, as he has repeatedly promised, or to capitalize on public support for him by seeking power, formally or informally, for himself.
The American-trained general has been confronted with weeks of continuous sit-ins and protests by the now-deposed Muslim Brotherhood, overseeing the two worst episodes of killings of demonstrators by the security services since the 2011 uprising. The authorities have ordered an end to two sit-ins in Cairo, raising the specter of a broadening crackdown on the Brotherhood.
The Brotherhood had counted on winning broader support against General Sisi after Mr. Morsi's ouster, and then after the death of scores of protesters. While the Islamists have maintained their vigils and marches around the country, General Sisi has so far managed to stir up enough support among opponents of the Brotherhood to generate backing for an even tougher crackdown.
''The army stands neutral before all factions,'' General Sisi told Egyptians in a recent speech, saying that coming elections would be supervised ''by the whole world.'' But in the same speech, he asked millions of people to take to the streets on his behalf, to fight ''violence and terrorism,'' a reference to his Islamist opponents.
''Shoulder the responsibility with the army and the police,'' he said.
When Mr. Morsi picked General Sisi as defense minister, the general was a rising star, having served as the chief of military intelligence while drawing notice among defense officials in the United States. In 2005, he trained at the United States Army War College in Pennsylvania, where he seemed especially drawn to a course dealing with civilian-military relations, according to his adviser at the college, Col. Stephen J. Gerras.
At the war college, General Sisi wrestled with the question of ''Democracy in the Middle East,'' the title of a paper he wrote. More searching than dogmatic, the 17-page paper seemed to be heavily influenced by the war in Iraq and was critical of American attempts to impose democracy in the region.
He criticized the practices of autocratic governments without ever singling out Egypt, saying they rigged elections and controlled the news media using ''outright intimidation.'' Religious leaders ''who step beyond their bounds in government matters are often sent to prison without trial.''
The Arab world needed to create its own version of democracy, he said, mentioning a moderate religious foundation, education and poverty alleviation as critical elements. Islamist groups needed to be included in the process, ''including radical ones,'' he said.
After President Hosni Mubarak was toppled, General Sisi served on the army council that ran the country, where he was said to have run the negotiations with the Brotherhood, the country's most powerful political force. He kept a low profile, but his name surfaced at least once in the headlines, when he acknowledged to Amnesty International that the military had subjected female protesters to ''virginity tests'' -- and said they had been performed to protect soldiers from rape allegations.
''The whole idea was absurd,'' said Salil Shetty, the secretary general of Amnesty International, who met with General Sisi. The general said the practice would stop, but took the ''paternalistic'' view that Egyptians would expect the army to protect soldiers from such allegations, rather than the victims, Mr. Shetty said.
After he became defense minister, General Sisi worked to improve morale in his military, which was still reeling from criticism of its stewardship of Egypt after the fall of Mr. Mubarak in 2011. He raised salaries and pensions, and doubled the size of apartments for officers. The general, who showed up to work at 5 a.m., visited soldiers nearly every day, jogging with them in shows of vigor and attention that the military publicized.
An officer who had been wary of General Sisi at first, fearing he was too close to Mr. Morsi, said the general's ''daring'' had changed his views. ''He gave me the best training,'' the officer said. ''He adopted a new approach toward my administrative problems, and he showed me financial appreciation. What more do I want?''
At first, the defense minister ''kept a very, very low profile,'' said Hossam Bahgat, a human-rights activist in Egypt. ''His appearances were at graduation ceremonies. There were almost no comments on politics or public affairs. There seems to have been a very studied approach to his public profile.
''Then, of course, things changed,'' he said.
In November, Mr. Morsi declared his authority above the courts, prompting fears that he was becoming autocratic. In December, the president's Islamist allies rammed through a new Constitution, ignoring the complaints about the process and the charter from non-Islamists, further polarizing the country. Mr. Morsi struggled to win cooperation from Egypt's extensive state bureaucracy, as his enemies began to circle.
At the same time, General Sisi, showing a knack for politics, made new friends.
When police officers went on strike, General Sisi held public dinners with senior police officials and sent emissaries to negotiate labor issues. When food poisoning sickened hundreds of students at Al-Azhar University, the prestigious center of Sunni Muslim thinking, Egyptians protested against the Brotherhood, which had tense relations with Al-Azhar's leaders.
General Sisi stepped in, sending ovens, deep fryers and other kitchen equipment in a convoy of military trucks, to show his solidarity with Al-Azhar.
Mr. Morsi's colleagues accuse General Sisi of working to undermine the president, for instance, by stepping in after Mr. Morsi seized new powers in November, and publicly inviting political leaders to a dialogue. One aide accused him of a more serious betrayal, saying the general had met with activists who were trying to depose the president. The general's politicking -- with Al-Azhar, and political leaders -- was not just a friendly gesture, Mr. Morsi's allies say. When General Sisi announced the military intervention that toppled the president, the leaders the general had courted were sitting at his side.
In his speech last week, General Sisi categorically rejected the allegations, saying he had never ''conspired'' and had repeatedly warned Mr. Morsi to change course. He and other leaders in the military, Egypt's most powerful institution and a virtual state within a state, were increasingly alarmed by Mr. Morsi's behavior, diplomats and analysts said. The anger started with a slight in October, at an anniversary celebration of the 1973 war with Israel. General Sisi found himself sitting near Tarek al-Zomor, a guest of the president who had been convicted of playing a role in the 1981 assassination of Anwar el-Sadat.
''Instead of sitting with officers who had shed their blood, he was forced to sit with the killer of General Sadat,'' said a colleague of General Sisi.
The military's discomfort grew as the economy plummeted and, in particular, as a dispute with Ethiopia over access to water in the Nile grew more serious. One diplomat said General Sisi had started to come under increasing pressure from mid-ranking officers to act.
The generals were also disturbed by investigations into their own wrongdoing. As one of his first acts, Mr. Morsi created a fact-finding commission to look into the deaths of protesters during the revolution against Mr. Mubarak, up until June 30, 2012, the last day of military rule. The report included victim testimony alleging torture by members of General Sisi's military intelligence branch. Mr. Morsi refused to publicize the report, and no investigations into the military resulted from it.
Analysts and people who know the general said they believed he was serious about returning the military to its barracks. The second-tier leadership he represented when he became defense minister ''didn't just reject the old guard,'' said Michael Wahid Hanna, who studies Egyptian politics and the military at the Century Foundation. ''They also didn't appreciate the incessant and direct interference in politics.''
The general's speech about terrorism raised doubts, though. ''I'm very surprised he's choosing to be front and center,'' Mr. Hanna said.
Mr. Morsi's fall was in some respects the latest phase in the continuing battle for supremacy between the military and the Brotherhood, marked by frequent deal-making and, now, open conflict. In the end, Mr. Morsi was outmaneuvered, by a general who appealed to notions of Egyptian identity that he had accused the Islamists of betraying.
General Sisi said the Brotherhood had started to turn a conservative nation against religion. But the general, and the army he commanded, would ensure that ''Egypt remains Egypt,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A poster of General Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi inside a travel agency near Tahrir Square in Cairo. General Sisi deposed President Mohamed Morsi on July 3. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NARCISO CONTRERAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4)
 General Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, shown in April, has been confronted with sit-ins and protests by the Muslim Brotherhood. (POOL PHOTO BY JIM WATSON) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); TERRORISM (60%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



99 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: In Complex Trading Case, Jurors Focused on Greed

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG, BEN PROTESS and ALEXANDRA STEVENSON

 BODY:
When nine New York residents shuffled into a cramped jury room in the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan on Wednesday, they were divided over Fabrice Tourre's culpability in a toxic mortgage deal sold to investors.
Then, over more than 13 hours, the five women and four men pored over reams of disclosure documents that Mr. Tourre and his employer Goldman Sachs had provided for investors in 2007, grappling with the nuances of the Securities and Exchange Commission's case. One juror, 32-year-old Tina Oommen, scribbled the various charges facing the former trader on a white board. Others scoured the voluminous transcript from the three-week trial.
Tension mounted among the nine -- which included educators, a stockbroker, an Episcopal priest and a digital advertising employee who reads Esquire magazine -- as the deliberations dragged on.
''It got really intense; it reminded me of religion,'' said the Rev. Beth F. Glover, the 47-year-old priest who initially struck a skeptical tone about aspects of the government's case. She questioned whether Mr. Tourre's supposed violation was ''material,'' a finding that was needed to rule against the former trader. 
At 3:12 p.m. on Thursday, the jury reached a verdict. Mr. Tourre, they decided, was liable for six of the seven counts.
Interviews with five of the nine jurors, an eclectic group spread across Westchester County, Manhattan and the Bronx, pulled back a curtain on the private deliberations in the S.E.C.'s most prominent trial stemming from the financial crisis. The jurors, speaking from their homes and offices a day after the trial, described the genesis of their decision.
They expressed sympathy for Mr. Tourre, alternately calling him a ''scapegoat'' and a ''willing participant'' in Goldman's vast mortgage machine.
But ultimately, the jurors said, their decision came down to what they saw as the letter of the law and, for some, a broader concern that Mr. Tourre's actions underscored a fundamental problem with society: Wall Street greed.
''He is what Wall Street is all about and it scared me,'' Evelyn Linares, a school principal from the Bronx, said on Friday in an interview from her porch. ''You go in thinking you can make a difference and you get sucked in.''
The S.E.C.'s case hinged on its grim portrayal of Wall Street.
In his opening argument to the jury, Matthew T. Martens, the leading lawyer for the agency, depicted the case against Mr. Tourre as an assault on ''Wall Street greed,'' arguing that the former trader had created a deal ''to maximize the potential it would fail.''
Mr. Tourre, Mr. Martens later declared in his closing remarks, was living in a ''Goldman Sachs land of make-believe'' where deceiving investors is not fraudulent.
That argument resonated with the jurors.
''Mr. Martens told us at the beginning that we would see this was all about Wall Street greed, and we did get to see that,'' Ms. Linares said.
And jurors said that they trusted Mr. Martens, with one describing the clean-cut lawyer as ''Marine-like.''
For Mr. Martens, the case was his final act at the S.E.C. He has already notified the agency's enforcement chiefs that he will soon depart for a white-shoe law firm, a person briefed on the matter said. Mr. Martens, the person said, is currently choosing between Latham & Watkins and WilmerHale.
For the S.E.C., whose credibility as a regulator came into question after failing to thwart the crisis, the jury delivered a long-sought courtroom victory. The triumph over Mr. Tourre follows one disappointment after another for the S.E.C., including two similar mortgage-related cases that crumbled last year.
In an e-mail to the trial team after the verdict, an S.E.C. official thanked the lawyers for securing a victory. ''We needed this,'' the official said.
Still, some critics have questioned why the agency chose to make Mr. Tourre -- a midlevel employee who was 28 at the time of the mortgage deal -- the face of the crisis. Not one executive at Lehman Brothers, which filed Wall Street's biggest bankruptcy ever at the height of the crisis, was charged with wrongdoing.
Mr. Tourre's lawyers seized on that sentiment, painting the trader as a scapegoat who abandoned his Wall Street career to pursue a doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago. The lawyers also noted that senior Goldman executives had approved the deal.
The jurors were sympathetic to that argument. After reflecting on Mr. Tourre's case, Beverly Rhett, a former special education teacher known as juror No. 2, commented: ''I could characterize him as somewhat of a scapegoat.''
Ms. Glover, the priest, echoed those remarks. ''It is a shame lower-level employees get pulled in,'' she said. ''There's a part of me that felt it was very unfair.''
Yet his lower-level status, jurors say, did not erase what he did.
''We were asked to look at his actions,'' Ms. Glover said, as she sipped coffee, with a button pinned to her shirt saying ''We Care About Your Spiritual Needs.''
''They portrayed him as a cog, but in the end a machine is made up of cogs and he was a willing part of that,'' she said.
Ms. Linares, the school principal, said, ''We don't think he deserved to take the blame for everything but he did play along.''
The scheme, according to the S.E.C., involved the marketing of a mortgage deal in 2007. At the heart of the agency's case was the claim that Mr. Tourre and Goldman sold investors the deal without disclosing a crucial conflict of interest: a hedge fund that helped construct the deal also bet that it would fail.
Mr. Martens also cited an e-mail in which Mr. Tourre stated that the riskiest slice of the mortgage trade -- a piece typically bought by someone betting that the deal would succeed -- was ''precommitted,'' when in fact it was not even going to be offered.
Mr. Tourre, his lawyers argued, corrected that misstatement in offering documents that followed, calling that slice N/A or not applicable. But some jurors said they didn't feel that convincing, because the tranche the hedge fund bought was also listed as N/A when it wasn't.
His lucrative paycheck -- $1.7 million in 2007, the year he assembled the mortgage deal in question -- also swayed some jurors.
Still, Ms. Glover was not initially convinced. She debated whether it was ''material'' for investors to know the hedge fund's role in the transaction.
''Industry practice was also not to disclose,'' she said, reciting a line from the defense's playbook.
And when the S.E.C. quoted embarrassing love notes Mr. Tourre sent to his girlfriend, some jurors felt sympathy rather than condemnation. Ms. Linares also prayed for Mr. Tourre -- and the other witnesses -- every day during the trial.
Other jurors were more adamant that Mr. Tourre was liable. When they couldn't agree on a particular charge, they would shift to another issue.
''At times things got heated. We were trying to play both sides of the fence and there were times when we didn't agree on things,'' Leonel Lopez, the Esquire-reading advertising employee, added.
Mr. Tourre lost, the jurors said, despite performing well on the witness stand over three days.
In fact, some jurors questioned why Mr. Tourre's lawyers didn't keep him there longer.
''It was a big shock to us that they didn't ask more questions,'' Ms. Glover said. ''He was likable and engaging,'' she said, adding it would have been easier for jurors if he was more villainlike.
While the loss also raised questions about the defense team declining to call a single witness, most jurors said that decision did not sway their vote. Mr. Lopez, 27, said the decision ''didn't strike me as odd because they did get a chance to question the prosecution's witnesses.''
According to legal experts, defense lawyers commonly present no defense when the government has already called their client as a witness.
''It's both a show of confidence and a tactic to get the jury to focus on the fact that the burden of proof rests with the government,'' said Evan T. Barr, a former federal prosecutor who now defends white-collar cases as a partner at Steptoe & Johnson. ''I would not be second-guessing the decision.''
A lawyer for Mr. Tourre declined to comment. Goldman Sachs, which settled its part in the case by paying a $550 million fine in 2010, also declined to comment. The bank has paid for Mr. Tourre's defense, and is likely to continue doing so.
While Mr. Tourre was the one on trial, the case weighed on jurors as well. Some traveled from more than an hour away each day, and then were forced to cram in work every evening.
Jurors were provided muffins or doughnuts by the court on some mornings. Nonetheless, Ms. Linares, on a special diet she started just before trial, says she lost 20 pounds -- taking her muffin home for her 87-year-old mother.
''It's been a long three weeks,'' Reece Pate, 37, a graphic designer known as juror No. 7, said. ''I'm trying to get back into my normal routine.''
For Ms. Rhett, the retired teacher, the trial ended just in time for her to make a cruise. Reached late Thursday night, Ms. Rhett said she returned home after the verdict and began to read media articles.
''I had no idea how big the case was. I had not read anything or heard anything.''
After the verdict on Thursday, Steven Zucker, the jury foreman, suggested a reunion, and Ms. Rhett collected everyone's e-mails. One person recalled Mr. Zucker, the former stockbroker, saying, ''We should all go out for a drink.''
William Alden contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fabrice Tourre, a former Goldman trader, was found liable on six of seven civil charges stemming from a mortgage trade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B1)
 Fabrice Tourre after the verdict. Some jurors were able to sympathize with the former trader, referring to him as a scapegoat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK FRANKLIN II/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (91%); VERDICTS (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); LAWYERS (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); RELIGION (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



100 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Weakening Yen Helps Toyota Double Its Quarterly Profit

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Toyota Motor, the world's largest automaker by sales, lifted its annual profit forecast on Friday after almost doubling its net income in the quarter that ended in June to 562.1 billion yen ($5.64 billion) from a year earlier, thanks to favorable exchange rates. 
Profit in the Japanese automaker's financial first quarter beat analysts' expectations by a wide margin, and underscored the boost that Toyota and other automakers have received from the economic policies of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. Those policies have galvanized Japan's export industry by weakening the yen by about 15 percent since last year, increasing the value of products sold overseas.
Technically, Toyota sold almost 37,000 fewer vehicles in the latest quarter, compared with the same quarter last year, with sales falling in Europe, Asia and Japan. Sales in Japan have slowed since government incentives for fuel-efficient cars expired last year. Toyota is also struggling in China, the world's biggest auto market, because consumer enmity over a territorial spat between Beijing and Tokyo has weighed on sales of Japanese brands. Auto sales continue to slump across the board in Europe.
But it was the weaker yen, together with a strong showing in its biggest overseas market, the United States, that lifted Toyota's bottom line. Economists predict the yen to weaken further, while the latest United States sales figures, for July, showed Toyota surging ahead of Ford for the first time in three years, with a 17 percent jump from the same month last year.
Toyota now expects net income for its full financial year that ends next March to reach 1.48 trillion yen, up slightly from a previous forecast of 1.37 trillion yen and an increase of 54 percent from its net profit last year.
In the latest quarter, net profit rose 93.6 percent from a year earlier to 562.1 billion yen, while operating profit rose 87.9 percent to 663.3 billion yen. Toyota attributed more than four-fifths of its operating profit increase to the weaker yen. Net revenue for the quarter rose 13.7 percent to 6.255 trillion yen compared to last year.
Helped by its strong numbers, Toyota is set to become the first automaker in the world to build more than 10 million vehicles in a single year. It said on Friday that it would build 10.12 million vehicles this calendar year, up 180,000 units from a previous production plan. Those numbers include models made by Daihatsu Motor and Hino Motors, which are part of the Toyota group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (93%); DAIHATSU MOTOR CO LTD (58%); HINO MOTORS LTD (50%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (93%); TM (NYSE) (93%); 7203 (TSE) (93%); 7262 (TSE) (58%); 7205 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



101 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: A Hankering for Hybrids

BYLINE: By JACLYN TROP and BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- When automakers rolled out their new electric cars three years ago, they had big plans. Even President Obama, in his State of the Union address in 2011, predicted there would be as many as a million of them on the nation's roads by the middle of the decade.
Results have, so far, fallen way short of expectations. Only about 36,000 battery-powered vehicles were sold this year through July, according to the auto research site Edmunds.com. And many of those sales were spurred by heavy discounts from car companies desperate to move electric models off the lot.
But for hybrid cars, it has been a different story. Automakers have sold about 298,000 hybrids, which alternately run on gasoline engines and battery power, so far this year. 
And while electric vehicles may be considered greener and more glamorous, hybrids have quietly entered the mainstream of the American auto market.
Today, more than 40 conventional hybrid models are available, from mass-market automakers like Toyota and Ford to luxury brands like BMW and Mercedes. Hybrids account for about 3 percent of overall industry sales, with the market-leading Toyota Prius cracking the Top 10 list of best-selling passenger cars.
By contrast, automakers offer only about a dozen all-electric cars or plug-in models -- which run on battery power with assistance from a gasoline engine -- although more are on the way.
Industry analysts say that hybrid models are now showing up on the shopping lists of a broad range of consumers.
''Conventional hybrids are mainstream now,'' said John O'Dell, the green-car editor at Edmunds. ''You can envision almost anyone buying one.''
The reasons are many. Hybrids cost less than most electric models. There are no limitations on driving range based on battery power. And the technology, once seen as exotic and possibly unreliable, has been proved over time in real-world driving conditions.
One of the hybrid converts is Pandian Athirajan, an I.B.M. product manager in Austin, Tex. He had been considering buying a Prius for years before finally taking the plunge in May.
He bought the Prius to save gas and reduce vehicles emissions, but only because its hybrid system had been perfected by Toyota since it was introduced in 2000. ''I wanted to buy a third-generation hybrid so that all kinks were ironed out,'' Mr. Athirajan said.
For many consumers, price is the biggest factor in choosing a hybrid over a vehicle that runs primarily on battery power, though a $7,500 federal tax credit is available for plug-in models and all-electric cars.
For example, the base price for a regular, gasoline-powered Ford Fusion sedan is $21,900. The conventional hybrid version of the car goes for $26,200. But the plug-in variation costs $38,700. Faced with sluggish demand for electric vehicles, auto companies have increasingly been forced to slash prices to stimulate demand. Ford, for example, recently cut $4,000 from the price of its all-electric Focus.
Manufacturers are also fighting an uphill battle to win over consumers worried about the distances they can travel before recharging an a purely electric car.
That was one reason Mr. Athirajan chose a hybrid. Even though his hometown has several public charging stations, including one at his local Walmart, Mr. Athirajan was concerned about making the 300-mile drive to Houston twice a month to visit his daughter.
Mr. Athirajan said he was prepared to look into buying an electric vehicle in three or four years but that he thought the electric technology still needed to mature. He also said that four to six hours to charge the battery was too long.
''Most of the E.V. cars give anywhere between 75 to 125 miles between charge,'' Mr. Athirajan said. ''It will be O.K. for weekday office trips but not O.K. for weekend shopping and other trips, and definitely not suitable for my weekend trips to Houston.''
Despite the lukewarm acceptance of electric models, automakers are nevertheless pushing ahead with more of them. One critical consideration is the increasingly stringent fuel-economy rules set by the federal government, which mandate that a car company's total fleet must average 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025, nearly double what it is today.
The pressure is even more acute in California, which has a zero-emission-vehicle program intended to cut pollution and increase sales of electric cars.
Chrysler, which is controlled by the Italian automaker Fiat, recently acknowledged that it would sell an electric version of the Fiat 500 minicar specifically to comply with California requirements.
Sergio Marchionne, the chief executive of both Fiat and Chrysler, made a rare admission that his companies were willing to lose money on the vehicle as long as it helped them adhere to fuel-economy rules.
Analysts like Mr. O'Dell said the fuel and emissions standards possibly forced automakers to introduce electric vehicles before there was actual demand for them.
''It might have been better to continue improving conventional hybrids and do more plug-in vehicles first,'' he said.
Still, car companies are continuing to invest heavily in all facets of alternative-fuel vehicles. Ford is spending about $400 million to design parts for electrified models and increasing its research into higher capacity batteries.
General Motors considers the plug-in Chevrolet Volt an important product in its lineup, but acknowledges that it has been a challenge to gain wide consumer acceptance. Last year, it cut production and this summer reduced the price by $4,000 in addition to offering more favorable lease terms to stimulate demand.
Nissan, which makes the all-electric Leaf, said it remained committed to the car. ''Nissan's priority is to make Leaf the first affordable, mass-market, zero-emission vehicle,'' a Nissan spokesman, Brian Brockman, said.
Tesla, which makes an all-electric car, has had solid sales catering to the highest end of the market.
Analysts say that the public's tepid response to electric vehicles, and the embrace of hybrids, is typical of the way people adopt new technology.
''They all come onto the market very slowly and then begin to accelerate,'' said Philip G. Gott, senior director at IHS Automotive. ''Hybrids are beginning to accelerate.''
Leading that growth is the Prius. Toyota's decision to expand the Prius lineup to three hybrid models, along with a plug-in model, has been a big part of the company's comeback in the United States from recalls linked to sudden acceleration issues. In July, Prius sales jumped 40 percent, to 23,294 -- which includes only 817 plug-ins -- and it was the 12th best-selling vehicle in the United States.
Toyota, which offers 11 hybrid models, including its Lexus brand, said that being first to the market helped the Prius remain the best-selling hybrid. The Prius accounts for about 70 percent of hybrids sold.
''It wasn't an overnight success,'' a Toyota spokeswoman, Jana Hartline, said. ''It was considered by many to be a science experiment. I think it just took people a while to understand the benefits of hybrid technology, but now it's pretty clear that there's no compromise on the part of the consumer. You just get in, turn it on and drive.''
Toyota plans to offer 18 new or redesigned hybrid models by 2015 to expand its reach.
David Blum, a graphic designer from Lake Elsinore, Calif., bought a Prius last month to replace the older model he has driven since 2005. He originally purchased the Prius to take advantage of the incentives offered by California, including tax credits and a sticker that allows him to drive in the state's car pool lanes.
''I got used to the mileage, and it was difficult to go back to a gasoline engine,'' Mr. Blum said. ''When you get 40 to 50 miles to the gallon, it just becomes the normal.''
He said he would not buy an electric car because the price was high and he would need to install a charging station in his garage.
''There is not yet an affordable electric option with enough range to make it viable,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hybrid: Toyota Prius
Electric: Nissan Leaf (B1)
Pandian Athirajan and his Toyota Prius Hybrid sedan in Austin, Tex., earlier this week. He bought the car in May. The car's license plate has been redacted by The New York Times. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) CHARTS: CHART (B1)
 Pulling Ahead: Sales of hybrid cars have steadily increased in recent years, but sales of electric cars and plug-in hybrids have been anemic by comparison. (Source: Edmunds.com) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); EMISSIONS (69%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (83%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (83%); TM (NYSE) (83%); 7203 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (87%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



102 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Aug. 3: Where the Candidates Are Today

BYLINE: JOSEPH BURGESS and NICHOLAS WELLS


HIGHLIGHT: The candidates&#8217; daily campaign schedule at a glance. 

 BODY:
Planned events for the mayoral candidates, according to the campaigns and organizations they are affiliated with. Times are listed as scheduled but frequently change.
Event information is listed as provided at the time of publication. Details for many of Ms. Quinn events are not released for publication.
 Bill de Blasio 
Democrat 
11 a.m.
With family in tow, speaks at the Maranatha Seventh-Day Adventist Church, in Brooklyn.
11:40 a.m.
Brings his family along again as he speaks at a second church of the day, the Jerusalem French Seventh-Day Adventist Church in Brooklyn.
12:30 p.m.
Greets voters outside Fairway Market, on the Upper West Side.
2 p.m.
Two weeks after staying over night with a resident, Mr. de Blasio brings his family along to N.Y.C. Housing Authority's Family Day at the Lincoln Houses in Upper Manhattan.
3 p.m.
One of three candidates to greet voters at the Carnaval del Barrio, with his wife and City Councilwoman Melissa Mark-Viverito, on 116th Street in East Harlem.
6:30 p.m.
Greets concertgoers at Celebrate Brooklyn!, featuring the Eddie Palmieri Salsa Orchestra and Banda Magda, as one of three candidates visiting throughout evening, at the Prospect Park Bandshell.
 John C. Liu 
Democrat
11:15 a.m.
Stops in at an open house at the Liu Campaign Brooklyn office, in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
11:45 a.m.
Despite the fact that the union endorsed William C. Thompson Jr., Mr. Liu is the featured speaker at a meeting of Teamsters Local 237, at Brooklyn Restoration Center in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
12:15 p.m.
Addresses recent graduates of the New York State Chaplain Task Force at their graduation ceremony, at Action in Christ International Church in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
1 p.m.
Attends the 17th annual Jamaica Arts and Music Summer Festival, one of four candidates to visit during the day, on Jamaica Avenue in Queens.
1:30 p.m.
Greets voters at the Harvest Church International's Health and Wellness Fair in Jamaica, Queens.
2 p.m.
Walks in the annual Love Yourself Stop the Violence walk in honor of City Councilman James E. Davis, who was fatally shot in City Hall 10 years ago, starting at Nostrand Avenue and Fulton Street in Brooklyn.
3 p.m.
Meets with Lorine Brown, the N.Y.C. Housing Authority resident who hosted his overnight stay two weeks ago, at the Lincoln Houses Family Day, in Upper Manhattan.
4 p.m.
Attends the N.Y.C. Housing Authority's Polo Grounds Towers Family Day celebration, in Upper Manhattan.
4:30 p.m.
Visits his third N.Y.C. Housing Authority Family Day celebration of the day, at the Westside Urban Renewal Area in Upper Manhattan.
6:15 p.m.
Attends an iftar, the traditional evening meal that Muslims share to break their fast during Ramadan, with the Muslims Employed in City Corrections Association, at Masjidus Sabur in Upper Manhattan.
7 p.m.
Greets concertgoers at Celebrate Brooklyn!, featuring the Eddie Palmieri Salsa Orchestra and Banda Magda, as one of three candidates visiting throughout evening, at the Prospect Park Bandshell.
8 p.m.
Addresses the Turkish Cultural Center of Queens' Annual Dinner Celebration of Ramadan, at Lt. Cpl. Thomas P. Noonan Jr. Playground in Brooklyn.
8:50 p.m.
Attends his second iftar of the day, at the Bronx Muslim Center.
 Joseph J. Lhota 
Republican
1:30 p.m.
Visits several Staten Island block parties, with Assemblyman Joe Borelli, who endorsed him on Feb. 25, starting at McBaine Avenue and Winant Avenue.
5:30 p.m.
Attends the St. George Waterfront Festival, at the St. George Promenade on Staten Island.
 Christine C. Quinn 
Democrat
12:30 p.m.
Has lunch with the Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, who endorsed her on April 18, at Tom's Restaurant in Brooklyn.
 Some of Ms. Quinn's events may not be shown because the campaign declines to release her advance schedule for publication. 
 William C. Thompson Jr. 
Democrat
1 p.m.
Attends the Grand Army Plaza Greenmarket, one of two candidates on the day to visit, on Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn.
5 p.m.
Attends the 17th annual Jamaica Arts and Music Summer Festival, one of four candidates to visit during the day, on Jamaica Avenue in Queens.
9:30 p.m.
Attends the gala for Music Brings Life, an organization that encourages youths to donate blood, at Restoration Plaza in Brooklyn.
 Anthony D. Weiner 
Democrat
11:45 a.m.
Visits supporters at a Weiner for Mayor phone bank, at the home of Karen Gottfried, on Grand Street in Manhattan.
2:30 p.m.
Two weeks after staying over night with a resident, stops in at N.Y.C. Housing Authority's Family Day at Lincoln Houses in Upper Manhattan.
3:45 p.m.
Attends the 17th annual Jamaica Arts and Music Summer Festival, one of four candidates to visit during the day, on Jamaica Avenue in Queens.
 Sal F. Albanese 
Democrat
11 a.m.
Greets voters at the Grand Army Plaza Greenmarket, the first of three greenmarkets he intends to visit on the day, on Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn.
12:30 p.m.
Greets voters at the Greenpoint Greenmarket, the second of three greenmarkets he intends to visit on the day, on Union Avenue in Brooklyn.
2 p.m.
Greets voters at the Sunnyside Greenmarket, the last of three greenmarkets he intends to visit on the day, on Skillman Avenue in Queens.
3:30 p.m.
Greets voters at Sunnyside Strolls, one of the city's temporary pedestrian plaza "Weekend Walks," on 46th Street between Greenpoint Avenue and Queens Boulevard in Queens.
6:30 p.m.
Greets concertgoers at Celebrate Brooklyn!, featuring the Eddie Palmieri Salsa Orchestra and Banda Magda, as one of three candidates visiting throughout evening, at the Prospect Park Bandshell.
8 p.m.
Returns for the second consecutive day to greet festivalgoers at the Madonna del Carmine Feast Festival, in Bergen Beach, Brooklyn.
 Adolfo Carrin Jr. 
Independent
1 p.m.
Attends the 17th annual Jamaica Arts and Music Summer Festival, one of four candidates to visit during the day, on Jamaica Avenue in Queens.
3:30 p.m.
One of three candidates to greet voters at the Carnaval del Barrio, on 116th Street in East Harlem.
 Erick J. Salgado 
Democrat
4 p.m.
For at least the fifth time in 10 days, campaigns from a caravan of trucks with State Senator Ruben Diaz in the Bronx.
7 p.m.
One of three candidates to greet voters at the Carnaval del Barrio, on 116th Street in East Harlem.

        
Aug. 2: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
Aug. 1: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
July 31: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
July 30: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
July 29: Where the Candidates Are Today

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); CITIES (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); RAMADAN (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (65%); SHOOTINGS (60%) Elections, Mayors; New York City; NYC 2013; NYC 2013 Events

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



103 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Structural Humbug

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Apparently everyone inside the Beltway knows what isn&#8217;t so. 

 BODY:
OK, this is really depressing. The PBS Newshour isn't always a good place to get the best analysis, but it's a terrific place to take the pulse of Washington conventional wisdom - and as Dean Baker notes, that conventional wisdom has clearly swung to the view that our high unemployment is "structural", not something that could be solved simply by boosting demand. 
And the question is, where the heck is that coming from?
As Dean also says, the professional consensus has very much moved the other way; you hear a lot less about structural factors from economists actually studying the data than you did a few years ago. Nor is there even much of a partisan divide; solid Republicans like Eddie Lazear (pdf) say things like this:
The recession of 2007-09 witnessed high rates of unemployment that have been slow to recede. This has led many to conclude that structural changes have occurred in the labor market and that the economy will not return to the low rates of unemployment that prevailed in the recent past. Is this true? The question is important because central banks may be able to reduce unemployment that is cyclic in nature, but not that which is structural. An analysis of labor market data suggests that there are no structural changes that can explain movements in unemployment rates over recent years. Neither industrial nor demographic shifts nor a mismatch of skills with job vacancies is behind the increased rates of unemployment. Although mismatch increased during the recession, it retreated at the same rate. The patterns observed are consistent with unemployment being caused by cyclic phenomena that are more pronounced during the current recession than in prior recessions.
Indeed: one strong indicator that the problem isn't structural is that as the economy has (partially) recovered, the recovery has tended to be fastest in precisely the same regions and occupations that were initially hit hardest. Goldman Sachs (no link) looks at unemployment in the "sand states" that had the biggest housing bubbles versus the rest of the country; it looks like this:
So the states that took the biggest hit have recovered faster than the rest of the country, which is what you'd expect if it was all cycle, not structural change.
I've done a quick and dirty take on unemployment by occupation, looking at changes in unemployment rates from the 2007 business cycle peak to the unemployment peak in 2009-10, and then the subsequent decline; it looks like this:
It's the same as the geographical story: the occupations that took the biggest hit have had the strongest recoveries.
In short, the data strongly point toward a cyclical, not a structural story - and there is broad agreement, for once, among economists on this point. Yet somehow, it's clear, Beltway groupthink has arrived at the opposite conclusion - so much so that the actual economic consensus on this issue wasn't even represented on the Newshour.
As I said, this is really, really depressing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (89%); HERD BEHAVIOR (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (68%); HOUSING BUBBLE (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: ED LAZEAR (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



104 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: Crumbling American Dreams

BYLINE: ROBERT D. PUTNAM


HIGHLIGHT: A national economic, social and cultural whirlwind transformed the life chances of the children and grandchildren of those I graduated from Port Clinton High School with in 1959. 

 BODY:
My hometown - Port Clinton, Ohio, population 6,050 - was in the 1950s a passable embodiment of the American dream, a place that offered decent opportunity for the children of bankers and factory workers alike.
But a half-century later, wealthy kids park BMW convertibles in the Port Clinton High School lot next to decrepit "junkers" in which homeless classmates live. The American dream has morphed into a split-screen American nightmare. And the story of this small town, and the divergent destinies of its children, turns out to be sadly representative of America.
Growing up, almost all my classmates lived with two parents in homes their parents owned and in neighborhoods where everyone knew everyone else's first name. Some dads worked in the local auto-part factories or gypsum mines, while others, like my dad, were small businessmen. In that era of strong unions and full employment, few families experienced joblessness or serious economic insecurity. Very few P.C.H.S. students came from wealthy backgrounds, and those few made every effort to hide that fact. 
Half a century later, my classmates, now mostly retired, have experienced astonishing upward mobility. Nearly three-quarters of them surpassed their parents in education and in that way advanced economically as well. One-third of my classmates came from homes with parents who had not completed high school and, of that group, nearly half went to college.
Low costs at public and private colleges across Ohio were supplemented by locally raised scholarships - from the Rotary Club, the United Automobile Workers, the Junior Women's Club and the like. Although the only two black students in my class encountered racial prejudice in town and none of their parents had finished grade school, both reached graduate school. Neither for them nor for our white classmates was family background the barrier to upward mobility that it would become in the next century.
Our (white) star quarterback, whom I will call J, grew up on the poor side of town. His dad, who had an eighth-grade education, worked two jobs to keep the family afloat - on the line at Port Clinton Manufacturing from 7 to 3, then at the canning factory from 3:30 to 11. Despite his 70-plus-hour workweek, J's dad made it to J's games. Unable to afford a car, J's family hitched rides with neighbors to church every week and ate a lot of hash. Despite their modest background, J's parents urged him to aim for college, and he chose the college-prep track at P.C.H.S., finishing in the top quarter of our class. His minister pointed him toward a downstate Lutheran institution and made a phone call to help find him financial aid. J graduated debt-free and continued on to seminary and a successful career as a Lutheran minister, coaching high school football on the side.
J's rise from a well-knit but modest working-class family to a successful professional career was not atypical, as a recent survey of my classmates revealed. My classmates describe our youth in strikingly similar terms: "We were poor, but we didn't know it." In fact, however, in the breadth and depth of the social support we enjoyed, we were rich, but we didn't know it.
As we graduated, none of us had any inkling that Port Clinton would change anytime soon. While almost half of us headed off to college, those who stayed in town had reason to expect a steady job (if they were male), marriage and a more comfortable life than their parents'.
But just beyond the horizon a national economic, social and cultural whirlwind was gathering force that would radically transform the life chances of the children and grandchildren of the graduates of the P.C.H.S. class of 1959. The change would be jaw dropping and heart wrenching, for Port Clinton turns out to be a poster child for changes that have engulfed America.
The manufacturing foundation of Port Clinton's modest prosperity in the 1950s and 1960s began to tremble in the 1970s. The big Standard Products factory at the east end of town provided nearly 1,000 steady, good-paying blue-collar jobs in the 1950s, but the payroll was more than halved in the 1970s. After two more decades of layoffs and "give backs," the plant gates on Maple Street finally closed in 1993, leaving a barbed-wire-encircled ruin now graced with Environmental Protection Agency warnings of toxicity. But that was merely the most visible symbol of the town's economic implosion.
Manufacturing employment in Ottawa County plummeted from 55 percent of all jobs in 1965 to 25 percent in 1995 and kept falling. By 2012 the average worker in Ottawa County had not had a real raise for four decades and, in fact, is now paid roughly 16 percent less in inflation-adjusted dollars than his or her grandfather in the early 1970s. The local population fell as P.C.H.S. graduates who could escape increasingly did. Most of the downtown shops of my youth stand empty and derelict, driven out of business by gradually shrinking paychecks and the Walmart on the outskirts of town.
The social impact of those economic hammer blows was initially cushioned by the family and community bonds that had been so strong in my youth. But as successive graduating P.C.H.S. classes entered an ever worsening local economy, the social fabric of the 1950s and 1960s was gradually shredded. Juvenile-delinquency rates began to skyrocket in the 1980s and were triple the national average by 2010. Not surprisingly, given falling wages and loosening norms, single-parent households in Ottawa County doubled from 10 percent in 1970 to 20 percent in 2010, while the divorce rate more than quadrupled. In Port Clinton itself, the epicenter of the local economic collapse in the 1980s, the rate of births out of wedlock quadrupled between 1978 and 1990, topping out at about 40 percent, nearly twice the race-adjusted national average (itself rising rapidly).
Unlike working-class kids in the class of 1959, many of their counterparts in Port Clinton today are, despite toil and talent, locked into troubled, even hopeless lives. R, an 18-year-old white woman, is almost the same age as my grandchildren. Her grandfather could have been one of my classmates. But when I went off to college on a scholarship from a local employer, he skipped college in favor of a well-paid, stable blue-collar job. Then the factories closed, and good, working-class jobs fled. So while my kids, and then my grandchildren, headed off to elite colleges and successful careers, his kids never found steady jobs, were seduced by drugs and crime, and burned through a string of impermanent relationships.
His granddaughter R tells a harrowing tale of loneliness, distrust and isolation. Her parents split up when she was in preschool and her mother left her alone and hungry for days. Her dad hooked up with a woman who hit R, refused to feed her and confined R to her room with baby gates. She says her only friend was a yellow mouse who lived in her apartment. Caught trafficking drugs in high school, R spent several months in a juvenile detention center and failed out of high school, finally eking out a diploma online. Her experiences left her with a deep-seated mistrust of anyone and everyone, embodied by the scars on her arms where a boyfriend injured her in the middle of the night. R wistfully recalls her stillborn baby, born when she was 14. Since breaking up with the baby's dad, who left her for someone else, and with a second fianc, who cheated on her after his release from prison, R is currently dating an older man with two infants born to different mothers - and, despite big dreams, she is not sure how much she should hope for.
R'S story is heartbreaking. But the story of Port Clinton over the last half-century - like the history of America over these decades - is not simply about the collapse of the working class but also about the birth of a new upper class. In the last two decades, just as the traditional economy of Port Clinton was collapsing, wealthy professionals from major cities in the Midwest have flocked to Port Clinton, building elaborate mansions in gated communities along Lake Erie and filling lagoons with their yachts. By 2011, the child poverty rate along the shore in upscale Catawba was only 1 percent, a fraction of the 51 percent rate only a few hundred yards inland. As the once thriving middle class disappeared, adjacent real estate listings in the Port Clinton News Herald advertised near-million-dollar mansions and dilapidated double-wides.
The contrast with the egalitarian ethos and reality of the 1950s - the contrast between the upward mobility experienced by J and the bleak prospects of R - vividly captures Port Clinton's transformation in the last half-century, much like that of the rest of the country. My research team has talked with dozens of R's from Austin, Tex., to Duluth, Minn., and from Atlanta to Orange County, Calif.
The crumbling of the American dream is a purple problem, obscured by solely red or solely blue lenses. Its economic and cultural roots are entangled, a mixture of government, private sector, community and personal failings. But the deepest root is our radically shriveled sense of "we." Everyone in my parents' generation thought of J as one of "our kids," but surprisingly few adults in Port Clinton today are even aware of R's existence, and even fewer would likely think of her as "our kid." Until we treat the millions of R's across America as our own kids, we will pay a major economic price, and talk of the American dream will increasingly seem cynical historical fiction.

        
Young and Isolated
        
In the South and West, a Tax on Being Poor
        
The Hidden Prosperity of the Poor
        
The Rise of the Permanent Temp Economy
        
Rising Inequality, Even Among College Presidents

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); FAMILY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); WORK WEEK (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); RACE & RACISM (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); MISC NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (54%) Factories and Manufacturing; Income Inequality; Labor and Jobs; Port Clinton (Ohio); Poverty; The Great Divide

COMPANY: PORT CLINTON MANUFACTURING CO (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3599 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Port Clinton (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



105 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: First Ride: The Reborn 2014 Indian Motorcycles

BYLINE: JERRY GARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: With classic styling and plenty of power, the all-new Indian motorcycle line from Polaris ranks high in wow factor. 

 BODY:
The latest attempt to revive the historic Indian motorcycle brand was unveiled Saturday evening in Sturgis, S.D., where the massive annual biker rally was under way.
The newest Indian Motorcycle lineup - created by Polaris Industries after the company acquired all the rights to the Indian name, trademarks and bikes two years ago - consists of three models: the Chief Classic, which starts at $18,999; the Chief Vintage, a soft bagger at $20,999; and the $22,999 Chieftain, the brand's first hard bagger.
In a sneak preview last week near the company's headquarters outside of Minneapolis, I had a chance to view, evaluate and test-ride the bikes. I will reserve final judgment until after a more thorough chance to spend time on the bikes, but I can say my initial impressions were entirely favorable. 
Polaris, which also owns the Victory brand of motorcycles it started about 15 years ago, brings the kind of engineering know-how, deep financial reserves, styling expertise and marketing muscle that Indian has been starved for almost since its founding in 1901.
The original Indian marque went bust in the 1950s, and other groups have tried to resuscitate the brand, without lasting success, since then. One of the limiting factors has been trying to honor Indian's classic styling, with thick, valanced fenders - a look that has been frozen in time, like a fly in amber.
Polaris has managed to walk the fine styling line between character and caricature. Its Indian motorcycles feature the requisite gobs of chrome, lavishly sculptured parts and voluptuous lines. The "wow" factor when first seeing the bikes cannot be understated. They exude the essential amounts of charisma, cachet and mystique that I believe are needed for this Indian revival to have staying power, not to mention giving rival Harley-Davidson a run for its customers.
The beating heart of all three bikes is the new Thunder Stroke 111 engine - the first all-new Indian powerplant in 70 years, Gary Gray, Indian's product director, told me in an interview last week.
"It is a 49-degree, air-cooled V-twin with 6-speed overdrive transmission," he said. "It produces 119 foot-pounds of torque, and it will fly."
Horsepower is a nonpublished number, but there certainly seemed to be plenty of punch available during a two-hour test ride on rural roads around sections of historic Highway 61. The engine delivers immediate and substantial bursts of power when prompted in any gear. The exhaust notes are deftly tuned to deliver optimum, but not deafening, amounts of burble, howl and wail - critical aural components of any cruiser-style motorcycle aspiring to compete for the hearts, minds and ears of the "loud pipes save lives" Harley crowd.
The engine felt as if it could tolerate a lot of hard riding; it has the equivalent of 2.5 million miles of development behind it, Mr. Gray said.
Even when ridden at high speed on badly worn washboard pavement, the bike kept its composure. It cornered well and felt much more maneuverable and nimble than its substantial curb presence might suggest.
The riding position was perfect for my 5-foot-11 frame, and I felt like I could ride long distances without fatigue - a good thing, considering the bike has a range of well over 200 miles per fill-up. Mr. Gray said the bike had a 5.5-gallon tank, and fuel economy "in the low- to mid-40s."
The designers have ticked the correct nostalgia boxes in styling the bikes.
The Thunder Stroke has the traditional Indian left side air intake and straight down exhausts. The bike has the valanced fenders and war bonnet chief logo on the front fender, said Steve Menneto, Polaris's vice president for motorcycles, in an interview. "We decided it had to have five or six traditional styling cues, sort of like Chevrolet keyed on in the revival of the Camaro - only with those cues brought forward and updated with modern-day technology."
For instance, the war bonnet lights up with LEDs; in fact, all the lighting on the new Indian models employ LEDs exclusively. Although I did not ride the bikes at night, the lighting brightly illuminated the darkened barn in which the bikes were stashed.
Polaris has tried to anticipate every argument a potential customer might have against giving the new Indian a try.
"We are offering a one-year unlimited warranty and four years of extended service," Mr. Gray said. "We will also offer trade-in assurance: 70 percent of its original value after two years, 60 percent after three years."
A television ad developed for the introduction shows a Harley owner lavishly cleaning, buffing and shining his bike; in the ad's punchline, he slaps a For Sale sign on it and walks away. After riding the new Indian, I get it.

        
Go East, Old Man: Duel in South Dakota
        
Custom Motorcycles as Sculpture: 'The White, the Black, the Kestrel'
        
Fantasy at the 2013 Concours d'Elegance of America
        
Wheelies: The Holy Roller Edition
        
Indian Motorcycles Revs Up a New App

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTORCYCLES (95%); MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TRADEMARK LAW (72%) Engines; Harley-Davidson Inc; Indian Motorcycle Co; Minneapolis (Minn); Motorcycles, Motor Bikes and Motorscooters; Polaris Industries; South Dakota; United States; Harley-Davidson Inc|HOG|NYSE; Automobiles; Motorcycles

COMPANY: POLARIS INDUSTRIES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Harley-Davidson Inc; Indian Motorcycle Co; Polaris Industries

TICKER: PII (NYSE) (58%) Harley-Davidson Inc; HOG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336999 ALL OTHER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3799 TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (91%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Minneapolis (Minn); South Dakota; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



106 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths FLANIGAN, PETER M

 BODY:
FLANIGAN--Peter M. June 21, 1923 - July 29, 2013. Mr. Flanigan was a Navy carrier pilot in World War II. He graduated Summa Cum Laude from Princeton University in 1947 and joined Dillon, Read & Co. Inc. in the fall of that year. His tenure at Dillon Read was interrupted in 1949 to serve as an economic analyst for the Economic Reconstruction Administration in Britain for two years, returning thereafter to Dillon Read. 
In 1960 Mr. Flanigan served as Executive Director of Volunteers for the Nixon-Lodge Presidential campaign and in 1968 as Deputy Campaign Manager of the Nixon campaign. In 1969 Mr. Flanigan left Dillon Read upon his appointment as Assistant to the President of the United States under President Nixon, with White House responsibility for domestic commercial and economic matters. In 1972 he was also appointed Director of the Council of International Economic Policy, with responsibility for development and coordination of the Administration's international economic policy. Mr. Flanigan returned to Dillon Read as Managing Director at the beginning of 1975 and continued in that capacity until December 1992. In 1984, Peter Flanigan and his wife adopted the second class in the "I Have a Dream" Program, subsequently becoming a Board Member of that program. In 1985, Mr. Flanigan founded The Student Sponsor Partners, a private voucher program which combines tuition support with one-on-one mentoring. S/SP has helped over 5,000 inner-city high school students. Based on comparative graduation rates and college attendance rates, this program has been a dramatic success. In 1987, he started the Patrons Program to encourage individuals to take responsibility for inner-city Catholic grammar schools which were in danger of being closed for financial reasons. Mr. Flanigan was a Board member of St. Ann's School in Harlem, a small grammar school with 315 students. Upon his death, Mr. Flanigan was Board Member of American Federation for Children - Alliance for School Choice, a nation-wide organization to promote legislation to give parents the ability to send their children to the schools, public or private, of their choice. To research and implement new programs to improve education, Mr. Flanigan founded the Center for Education Innovation of The Manhattan Institute. He was a Board member of the Catholic University of America, and previous Chairman of the Board of Portsmouth Abbey School. Mr. Flanigan was also a member of the Board of Trustees of the John M. Olin Foundation, Inc. and a member of the Board of the Richard M. Nixon Library & Birthplace. In 1954, Mr. Flanigan married Brigid Snow, daughter of the legendary Carmel Snow who was founding editor of Harpers Bazaar, a position she held for 23 years, and grand niece of the equally legendary Bishop McQuade of Dublin, known to his flock as the Holy Terror. His wife, Brigid, passed away in 2006. Brigid and Peter's five children include Sister Louise Marie of the Sister Servants of the Eternal Word. His other children, Brigid, Tim, Megan and Bob are the parents of Peter's 16 grandchildren. Five years ago, Peter was blessed by his marriage to Dorothea von Oswald. He lived half of the year in Austria with Dorothea and her five daughters Maido, Theresa, Mariella, Sophie and Nina. The von Oswald family warmly embraced their new father and grandfather. Peter's great loves in life were his family, his Roman Catholic faith, and his country. Friends may visit at 220 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, NY, from 4:30pm to 8pm on Sunday, August 4. A Mass of Christian Burial will be said at the Church of the Resurrection, 910 Boston Post Rd, Rye, NY, at 10am on Monday, August 5. In lieu of flowers, please make a donation to the Student Sponsor Partners at www.SSPNYC.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); WORLD WAR II (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); BOARD CHANGES (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (70%); SCHOOL CHOICE (70%); LIBRARIES (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: DILLON READ & CO INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



107 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 69 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MORRIS, CYNTHIA TAFT

 BODY:
MORRIS--Cynthia Taft, Professor Emerita of Economics, died on July 16 in her home in Washington, D.C. Cynthia had a distinguished career and was known by her friends and family for the amazing force of her character. She is survived by her brother, her son, her daughter, and two grandchildren. She will be buried in a private ceremony in Cincinnati, OH; a memorial service will be held in Washington, DC in the fall. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (66%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



108 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: Crumbling American Dreams

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. PUTNAM. 
Robert D. Putnam is a professor of public policy at Harvard and the author of ''Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community.''

 BODY:
My hometown -- Port Clinton, Ohio, population 6,050 -- was in the 1950s a passable embodiment of the American dream, a place that offered decent opportunity for the children of bankers and factory workers alike.
But a half-century later, wealthy kids park BMW convertibles in the Port Clinton High School lot next to decrepit ''junkers'' in which homeless classmates live. The American dream has morphed into a split-screen American nightmare. And the story of this small town, and the divergent destinies of its children, turns out to be sadly representative of America.
Growing up, almost all my classmates lived with two parents in homes their parents owned and in neighborhoods where everyone knew everyone else's first name. Some dads worked in the local auto-part factories or gypsum mines, while others, like my dad, were small businessmen. In that era of strong unions and full employment, few families experienced joblessness or serious economic insecurity. Very few P.C.H.S. students came from wealthy backgrounds, and those few made every effort to hide that fact. 
Half a century later, my classmates, now mostly retired, have experienced astonishing upward mobility. Nearly three-quarters of them surpassed their parents in education and in that way advanced economically as well. One-third of my classmates came from homes with parents who had not completed high school and, of that group, nearly half went to college.
Low costs at public and private colleges across Ohio were supplemented by locally raised scholarships -- from the Rotary Club, the United Automobile Workers, the Junior Women's Club and the like. Although the only two black students in my class encountered racial prejudice in town and none of their parents had finished grade school, both reached graduate school. Neither for them nor for our white classmates was family background the barrier to upward mobility that it would become in the next century.
Our (white) star quarterback, whom I will call J, grew up on the poor side of town. His dad, who had an eighth-grade education, worked two jobs to keep the family afloat -- on the line at Port Clinton Manufacturing from 7 to 3, then at the canning factory from 3:30 to 11. Despite his 70-plus-hour workweek, J's dad made it to J's games. Unable to afford a car, J's family hitched rides with neighbors to church every week and ate a lot of hash. Despite their modest background, J's parents urged him to aim for college, and he chose the college-prep track at P.C.H.S., finishing in the top quarter of our class. His minister pointed him toward a downstate Lutheran institution and made a phone call to help find him financial aid. J graduated debt-free and continued on to seminary and a successful career as a Lutheran minister, coaching high school football on the side.
J's rise from a well-knit but modest working-class family to a successful professional career was not atypical, as a recent survey of my classmates revealed. My classmates describe our youth in strikingly similar terms: ''We were poor, but we didn't know it.'' In fact, however, in the breadth and depth of the social support we enjoyed, we were rich, but we didn't know it.
As we graduated, none of us had any inkling that Port Clinton would change anytime soon. While almost half of us headed off to college, those who stayed in town had reason to expect a steady job (if they were male), marriage and a more comfortable life than their parents'.
But just beyond the horizon a national economic, social and cultural whirlwind was gathering force that would radically transform the life chances of the children and grandchildren of the graduates of the P.C.H.S. class of 1959. The change would be jaw dropping and heart wrenching, for Port Clinton turns out to be a poster child for changes that have engulfed America.
The manufacturing foundation of Port Clinton's modest prosperity in the 1950s and 1960s began to tremble in the 1970s. The big Standard Products factory at the east end of town provided nearly 1,000 steady, good-paying blue-collar jobs in the 1950s, but the payroll was more than halved in the 1970s. After two more decades of layoffs and ''give backs,'' the plant gates on Maple Street finally closed in 1993, leaving a barbed-wire-encircled ruin now graced with Environmental Protection Agency warnings of toxicity. But that was merely the most visible symbol of the town's economic implosion.
Manufacturing employment in Ottawa County plummeted from 55 percent of all jobs in 1965 to 25 percent in 1995 and kept falling. By 2012 the average worker in Ottawa County had not had a real raise for four decades and, in fact, is now paid roughly 16 percent less in inflation-adjusted dollars than his or her grandfather in the early 1970s. The local population fell as P.C.H.S. graduates who could escape increasingly did. Most of the downtown shops of my youth stand empty and derelict, driven out of business by gradually shrinking paychecks and the Walmart on the outskirts of town.
The social impact of those economic hammer blows was initially cushioned by the family and community bonds that had been so strong in my youth. But as successive graduating P.C.H.S. classes entered an ever worsening local economy, the social fabric of the 1950s and 1960s was gradually shredded. Juvenile-delinquency rates began to skyrocket in the 1980s and were triple the national average by 2010. Not surprisingly, given falling wages and loosening norms, single-parent households in Ottawa County doubled from 10 percent in 1970 to 20 percent in 2010, while the divorce rate more than quadrupled. In Port Clinton itself, the epicenter of the local economic collapse in the 1980s, the rate of births out of wedlock quadrupled between 1978 and 1990, topping out at about 40 percent, nearly twice the race-adjusted national average (itself rising rapidly).
Unlike working-class kids in the class of 1959, many of their counterparts in Port Clinton today are, despite toil and talent, locked into troubled, even hopeless lives. R, an 18-year-old white woman, is almost the same age as my grandchildren. Her grandfather could have been one of my classmates. But when I went off to college on a scholarship from a local employer, he skipped college in favor of a well-paid, stable blue-collar job. Then the factories closed, and good, working-class jobs fled. So while my kids, and then my grandchildren, headed off to elite colleges and successful careers, his kids never found steady jobs, were seduced by drugs and crime, and burned through a string of impermanent relationships.
His granddaughter R tells a harrowing tale of loneliness, distrust and isolation. Her parents split up when she was in preschool and her mother left her alone and hungry for days. Her dad hooked up with a woman who hit R, refused to feed her and confined R to her room with baby gates. She says her only friend was a yellow mouse who lived in her apartment. Caught trafficking drugs in high school, R spent several months in a juvenile detention center and failed out of high school, finally eking out a diploma online. Her experiences left her with a deep-seated mistrust of anyone and everyone, embodied by the scars on her arms where a boyfriend injured her in the middle of the night. R wistfully recalls her stillborn baby, born when she was 14. Since breaking up with the baby's dad, who left her for someone else, and with a second fianc, who cheated on her after his release from prison, R is currently dating an older man with two infants born to different mothers -- and, despite big dreams, she is not sure how much she should hope for.
R'S story is heartbreaking. But the story of Port Clinton over the last half-century -- like the history of America over these decades -- is not simply about the collapse of the working class but also about the birth of a new upper class. In the last two decades, just as the traditional economy of Port Clinton was collapsing, wealthy professionals from major cities in the Midwest have flocked to Port Clinton, building elaborate mansions in gated communities along Lake Erie and filling lagoons with their yachts. By 2011, the child poverty rate along the shore in upscale Catawba was only 1 percent, a fraction of the 51 percent rate only a few hundred yards inland. As the once thriving middle class disappeared, adjacent real estate listings in the Port Clinton News Herald advertised near-million-dollar mansions and dilapidated double-wides.
The contrast with the egalitarian ethos and reality of the 1950s -- the contrast between the upward mobility experienced by J and the bleak prospects of R -- vividly captures Port Clinton's transformation in the last half-century, much like that of the rest of the country. My research team has talked with dozens of R's from Austin, Tex., to Duluth, Minn., and from Atlanta to Orange County, Calif.
The crumbling of the American dream is a purple problem, obscured by solely red or solely blue lenses. Its economic and cultural roots are entangled, a mixture of government, private sector, community and personal failings. But the deepest root is our radically shriveled sense of ''we.'' Everyone in my parents' generation thought of J as one of ''our kids,'' but surprisingly few adults in Port Clinton today are even aware of R's existence, and even fewer would likely think of her as ''our kid.'' Until we treat the millions of R's across America as our own kids, we will pay a major economic price, and talk of the American dream will increasingly seem cynical historical fiction.
This is an essay from The Great Divide, a series on inequality, at nytimes.com/opinionator.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The demolition of the old Port Clinton Middle and Jefferson Elementary Schools in Port Clinton, Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BOROWIEC FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FAMILY (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); WORK WEEK (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); RACE & RACISM (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); MISC NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (53%)

COMPANY: PORT CLINTON MANUFACTURING CO (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3599 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



109 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Pebble Beach Stalwarts, Classics as Their Cause

BYLINE: By LEO LEVINE

 BODY:
When visitors new to the weeklong festival surrounding the Pebble Beach Concours d'lgance see their first million-dollar car, they can't help but be impressed. After all, there aren't many like that back home. By the third day, million-dollar vehicles are like the spear-carriers in ''Aida,'' mere background for the real action. 
One example: In 2011 the concours created a class for the Ferrari 250 GTO. Of the three dozen cars built, 22 showed up. Given that the last one to change hands was widely reported to have sold for $35 million, that's more than $750 million worth of rolling stock in one corner of the concours.
There is no way to precisely determine the economic impact of the various automotive events on the Monterey Peninsula of California each August, but the rise from a local curiosity to an international celebration is responsible for millions of visitors' dollars flowing into the local economy through the years. Lately it has become something of a showcase for automakers as well, with introductions of new models to the press.
Robert Austin, the former head of public relations for Rolls-Royce in the United States, has said there is no place in the world like Pebble Beach to present a high-dollar product. The challenge now for the concours and its associated events is to make sure the aesthetic qualities are not overtaken by the commercial interests.
Much of the credit for the growth of the Monterey auto extravaganza belongs to four people who had the vision and the ambition to build what in the collector-car hobby were landmarks. Their actions provided the basis for today's success.
Jules Heumann and Lorin Tryon, San Francisco businessmen and classic car owners who took over the artistic management of the Pebble Beach Concours in 1972, were the first two. Over the next quarter century, working for no pay, their work elevated the event to the country's finest. Mr. Tryon died in 1999; Mr. Heumann, 89, became chairman emeritus in 2001.
In the early 1970s, when used sports-racing cars were mostly gathering dust, Steve Earle gathered some friends and their cars at the Laguna Seca road circuit. Some 60 showed up in 1974, and the next year there were even more. In 1978 Mercedes-Benz brought its world champion 300 SLR and had Phil Hill, the former champion, drive it. Sellout crowds followed, and Mr. Earle ran the Monterey Historics, which became a model for other events of this type, until 2009.
Today, the growth of the Pebble Beach concours is limited only by the number of entries the selection committee decides to accept. Sandra Button, who chairs the committee, has been involved with the event for 28 years, 12 of them as its head. When she joined the committee in 1985, there was one commercial sponsor. In 2012 there were 71. This year, she said in a telephone interview, she expects 75.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TREASURES: The Ferrari 250 GTO lineup at Pebble Beach in 2011. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMBALL STUDIOS/PEBBLE BEACH CONCOURS D'LGANCE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



110 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; NEXT STOP; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2009 words

HEADLINE: The Skyline by the Steppes

BYLINE: By JOSH WEIL

 BODY:
In September the hills around Ulan Bator, the rough and roiling capital of Mongolia, are flecked with wildflowers. Below them, districts of gers, or yurts, encircle the city. The circular canvas structures, insulated with felt and supported by poles, have housed central Asian nomads since before the time of Genghis Khan -- before there even was a Mongolia. Now, half of the nation's population lives permanently in or near the capital. Look beyond the gers, to where the offices and condominiums rise, and you'll see why: Ulan Bator is booming. Construction cranes spike the sky. Traffic -- Hummers and Lexuses, jacked-up jalopies and crammed city buses -- churns. It's impossible to ignore the economic surge that copper, gold and coal mining have brought to the city in recent years. 
It has brought visitors, too. In the past decade, as Mongolia's G.D.P. has more than doubled, tourism has increased along with it. In the first half of last year more than 280,000 travelers visited Mongolia (mostly from China, Russia and South Korea, with Americans the fourth-largest group), on track to beat by 50 percent the number of annual visitors just a decade ago. Yet, despite this influx, Mongolia remains the world's least densely populated country -- just over three million people inhabit its 600,000 square miles. This is a land where, in the vast sweep of endless steppes, you can lose yourself in quietude.
Unless you're still in Ulan Bator, along with nearly half the country's population.
''U.B.,'' Dan Bailey told me on my first day in the city, ''is the worst part of Mongolia.'' As a fishing guide who leads treks along the country's rivers, he should know. And by evening I was ready to agree with him. After all, I hadn't come to Mongolia to see a city. Hardly anybody does. Most tourists find themselves in Ulan Bator because that's where Genghis Khan International Airport is; they tend to leave as soon as they can.
But in a week of wandering its streets I got to know two Ulan Bators: the clamorous one of concrete and crowds that assaults you upon arrival, and the culturally rich, charismatic one that embraces you once you give it a chance. In 1990 protesters threw off the yoke of a splintering Soviet Union. Though that uprising might seem fitting for a land that was once home to an irrepressible horde of conquering horsemen, the current economic revolution has led to an industrial boom at odds with the pastoral Mongolia many visitors hope to find. This is a city of smog and snarled traffic, of 50 Cent blasting from a screen opposite the State Department Store; a place where a Versace outlet encroaches on the square where Lenin's statue stood until last October, when it was hoisted away and auctioned off.
This is the Ulan Bator that Jan Wigsten, the Swedish founder of the tour company Nomadic Journeys, means when he speaks of a capital in the ''overdrive of transition.'' Mr. Wigsten has been going to Mongolia for more than 30 years. He has seen building entrances shift from courtyards that featured playgrounds and gardens (''that Communist idea of communal use'') to doors that open directly onto the street. He has seen the swarms of street kids that once suffused the city with a sense of desperation, and the way economic expansion swept the streets clean of them. ''It's like being in the '50s,'' he said of the economic boom and all its social implications.
Indeed, the Ulan Bator I first stepped out into did seem like a city at the beginning of a prosperous decade: avenues clogged with more cars than they could handle, people hurrying to work, restaurants with signs advertising fast food. But the signs weren't advertising burgers and fries; instead, chains like Khaan Buuz and Mongol Khuushur dish up buuz (steamed mutton dumplings) and khuushuur (the same, deep fried). I drank suutei tsai -- salty milk tea with a sheen of fat -- and ate with my hands until my fingers glistened. This seemed the quickest way to get close to the culture, at least until I could get out into the rural Mongolia I'd come for.
The second Ulan Bator is the city I could only appreciate weeks later, after days of hitching my way across the central steppe, nights camping in a storm-battered tent, and another stretch riding a half-wild horse through the mountains that border Siberia. And then there were the endless meals of gristly mutton eaten around smoky stoves inside herders' gers, the unceasing cups of greasy tea.
But, upon my return to Ulan Bator, I discovered a variety of cosmopolitan cuisines uniquely fitting to a culture created by conquering -- and uniting -- so many disparate corners of the world.
My culinary journey began in the Sansar neighborhood, behind the wrestling stadium, at an incongruously tranquil restaurant, Hazara, named for the north Indian tribe that, in the 13th century, followed Genghis Khan's army back to the Mongolian Steppe. After weeks of bland Mongolian food, I nearly swooned at the mammoth leg of cardomom-scented lamb marinated in rum and baked in a tandoori oven, served alongside baingan bharta (mashed eggplant, tomatoes and onions spiced with chiles and coriander), then sank into a satisfied stupor amid the larch logs and curtains that make each table its own secluded hideaway.
Another outstanding eating experience awaited me at Urlag, tucked inside the Culture Palace. Urlag is not just a Korean restaurant, but a North Korean one. Despite the novelty of an opera honoring ''Dear Leader'' looped on the TV, it was the food that surprised me: a cold dish of glassy buckwheat noodles set afire with a kimchi sauce, and roast duck so delicious it brought me back the next night.
At Naran Tuul, the bustling market east of the city, where furriers hawk hats that dangle fox paws, and smartphones are sold alongside horse tack, I stopped by a tsainy gazar, or teahouse. There I found a plate of tsuban (noodles and mutton) accompanied by shreds of honest-to-God carrots, not to mention coleslaw and potato salad and fresh steamed mantuu buns.
Food wasn't the only thing I came to appreciate in Ulan Bator. Though traveling through the steppe had imbued me with admiration for those who live there, mostly nomadic herders of horses, sheep, goats and yaks, it was in Ulan Bator that I encountered the history that gives them such fortitude. A metropolis established just over 200 years ago as a nomadic encampment called the City of Felt, Ulan Bator isn't much for ancient architecture. And in a country purged by Soviets of monks and monasteries, the unremarkable Buddhist monasteries of Choijin Lama and Gandan Khiid are likely to disappoint.
But the core of this country's past is in the centuries before the capital existed, and that history comes most powerfully to life in the National Museum of Mongolian History. Here in a concrete building west of Sukhbaatar Square, quotes from the nation's founder line the walls. Walking among armor and trumpets made from human bones, I could almost hear Genghis Khan's voice: ''Listen, my sons, my life was too short to achieve the conquest of the world. That task is for you.''
Today, Mongolia is 15 times smaller than at the empire's peak, but still far too large to explore in the month I had there. So it was in the little-visited halls of the locked-up Wildlife Museum that I came closest to comprehending the country's vast natural world. Once I'd found the key-keeper, and he'd lighted the dusty taxidermy displays -- from wolves caught midsnarl to ram skulls sprouting huge horns -- the realization hit me: how wondrous an array of animals, and how precious the dwindling wildlife that's left.
Which is just another reason to see this country now. Although the Ministry of Nature Environment and Tourism has set aside almost 15 percent of the land in protected areas like Mongol Daguur and Khustain National Park, the mining boom continues to rip away grassland from the gazelles that graze in the east, dig in to the desert home of rare wild camels and Gobi bears, and eat away at the habitat of reindeer, wolves and the last snow leopards in the northern mountains.
If Mongolia guards its natural treasures as well as it does its cultural ones (including the 17th-century Buddhist figures and self-portraits of its greatest artist, Zanabazar, in the Zanabazar Museum of Fine Arts; and the Mongolian National Song and Dance Ensemble's air-rattling throat singing and contortionist performances), it will only grow more popular. And Ulan Bator will become an increasingly welcome reprieve from the rigors of the wilds.
Near the end of my visit, I walked west from the square, seeking the Center of Shaman Eternal Heavenly Sophistication. I found a pair of dusty gers enclosed by a chain-linked fence. Planted in the dirt in front of them were spirit banners -- the tails of horses once owned by the dead, strung now to spear tips. The gate was locked, the center closed. So I kept walking, toward the hills, into the tumble of ger slums at the city's edge. Soon I found myself inside a sprawling cemetery; Ulan Bator's skyline glinted in the distance. There, among the new high-rises, the grandest of them gleamed: the Blue Sky, a 200-room luxury hotel. With its 25 stories of blue glass, the building and its name recall the central image in Mongolian spiritualism, the Eternal Blue Sky. Throughout the country I'd seen blue ribbons marking sacred places, tied to ancient trees at mountain passes and on the headstones scattered around me now.
The next day, I would watch the Grand National Orchestra -- with its carved horse-head violins and cow-horn winds -- play a rousing rendition of ''We Are the Champions.'' But it was that afternoon, standing among the wildflowers and the shards of vodka bottles that glittered among them, that I understood how the windswept plains behind me and the modern city rising before me were equal parts of the country's character, inseparable from the history that binds them both.
IF YOU GO
No visa is required for American citizens for a visit of up to 90 days.
WHERE TO STAY
Nassan's Guesthouse (Baga Toiruu Street West, building A4; nassantours.com): Perhaps the most helpful guesthouse manager in Ulan Bator, matched by the clean rooms and hot showers. Dorm rooms: $7 a person, per night; $30 for a whole room, which sleeps four or more. The guesthouse and Blue Sky, below, give prices in U.S. dollars.
The Blue Sky Hotel and Tower (Peace Avenue. 17; blueskytower.mn): Ulan Bator's premiere luxury hotel, near Sukhbaatar Square, with a health club, nightclub, restaurants and an unbeatable view from the open-air lounge ($192 to $3,000).
WHERE TO EAT
Urlag (Amaryn Gudamj Street, inside the Culture Palace; 976-9907-9894; facebook.com/urlagrestaurant): North Korean restaurant with patriotic operas on television and sublime dishes on the plates. (Main courses, 9,000 Mongolian tugrik, $6.35 at 1,420 tugrik to the dollar.)
Hazara (Peace Avenue 16, behind the Wrestling Palace; 976-9919-5007): An elegant atmosphere matched by attentive service and sophisticated and unusual Indian cuisine -- in unexpectedly large portions. (Main dishes, about 11,000 to 25,000 tugrik; wines, 13,000 to 91,000 tugrik.)
Gobi Cave (Amarsanaa Street, west side, north of Damdinbazar Street; 976-1136-1520; facebook.com/gobicave): With over-the-top cavern-themed dcor, this Turkish restaurant is unlike any other place in Ulan Bator, and maybe anywhere. Fun to sit in, and good food, too. (Main courses, 7,000 tugrik.)
Tsainy Gazar No. 2 (Naran Tuul Market, metal hangar, back entrance): A great place to try traditional Mongolian food. Clean with quick service and more complexity (and vegetables) than usual. (Lunch plates for 3,000 tugrik.)
WHERE TO DRINK
Budweiser Bar (Sukhbaataryn Gudamj Street, northwest corner of Sukhbaatar Square): Good Czech beer and great views of the city's main square.
The Cherry Lounge (Tokyogiin Gudamj Street, west side, north of the Wrestling Palace): Once named the Sexy Jazz Lounge, it still has the vibe -- cozy with low lighting and red walls hung with black-and-white photos of jazz greats.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, statue of Genghis Khan in Sukhbaatar Square
districts of yurts surround city
sunglasses in Naran Tuul Market
Urlag, a North Korean restaurant
Sukhbaatar Square, with the Blue Sky bulding in the background
near the town of Ikh- Ull in central Mongolia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HOW WHEE YOUNG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 JOSH WEIL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (89%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); SPORT FISHING (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); SMOG (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); AIRPORTS (60%); COAL MINING (54%); RIVERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONGOLIA (98%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



111 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: The Hipster Brewmeister of ... Beirut

BYLINE: By NATHAN DEUEL

 BODY:
LAST spring, at a public square in downtown Beirut, Lebanon, about 1,000 revelers attended a rock festival sponsored by 961 Beer, a very rare Middle East microbrewery. Acts included the Wanton Bishops, a band that would have been at home in Austin, Tex. In the front row were stylish women in sundresses beside men who showed a strong preference for black T-shirts and trendy eyewear.
Forget the idea that religion or the effects of war might preclude the success of a Lebanese brewery. It's true that many Muslims abstain from alcohol. But plenty of people in the Middle East love to drink, and this is especially true in Lebanon, where the religious plurality includes a thriving Christian population -- and besides, people seek alcohol during hard times, said Mazen Hajjar, a former investment banker and airline executive who started 961 Beer. 
But there has been a problem. For 80 years, Lebanon ''has been drinking fizzy, light beers,'' he said. ''I wanted to brew real beer.''
His company makes a beer that was named best lager at the Hong Kong International Beer Awards last year. Other regular offerings from 961 include a red ale, a pale ale, a stout, a porter, a witbier and, starting this summer, a black IPA, or India pale ale.
Last year, the company sold the equivalent of 200,000 cases of beer in bottles and kegs. With sales in Lebanon and abroad, the company expects to break even for the first time this year. That is no small feat, considering that 961 began after war broke out between Lebanon and Israel in 2006, that the economy still hasn't fully recovered from the 15-year civil war that ended in 1990 and that now the conflict in Syria is spilling over into Lebanon.
''It's remarkable that Mazen has been able to put a business together in that chaos,'' said Steve Hindy, a co-founder of the Brooklyn Brewery and a former Beirut correspondent for The Associated Press. ''Mazen is the Lone Ranger there.''
Mr. Hajjar got the idea to form 961 in 2005, when Henrik Haagen, a Danish businessman vacationing in Beirut, happened to approach him on the street and ask for directions to a restaurant. The two struck up a conversation and realized that they both wanted to start a business. After they came up with a brewery as a possibility, they set to work. Mr. Haagen returned to Denmark and began sending Mr. Hajjar hops and grain -- they weren't readily available in Lebanon -- by UPS and DHL.
From the kitchen of his Beirut apartment, sometimes as shells fell nearby, Mr. Hajjar started brewing buckets of beer. He used how-to books as a guide. The first batches were terrible -- green, gassy muck, he said. But he kept trying to improve.
He started holding gatherings every Sunday, where he would cook food and test new ales and lagers. More and more people came to the tastings, and when the food ran out at one of them, no one seemed to mind.
On another night, two strangers knocked on the door. ''I hear you make good beer,'' one of them said. ''Can we buy some?''
Shortly after that, Mr. Hajjar and Mr. Haagen pooled their cash to start a microbrewery. Mr. Haagen traveled back and forth between Denmark and Beirut to help with the effort. They imported a complete brew works from Canada -- with stainless steel tubing and giant vats for boiling, cooling and fermenting -- and installed it in a small factory space outside the city. Then the company leased another space on the city's not-yet-gentrified eastern edge. It would be a pub, they decided. And it would be called 961 Beer, for Lebanon's international telephone code.
On the opening night, in September 2007, the paint on the newly built bar furniture was not dry yet, so Mr. Hajjar, Mr. Haagen and their friends feverishly started blow-drying it, Mr. Hajjar recalled. When they finally opened the roll-top security gates, they saw that 300 people were in line.
Mr. Hajjar and his crew kept a hectic pace, brewing throughout the mornings and afternoons, then racing to the pub to open to bigger and bigger crowds. ''It was crazy,'' he said. ''We just couldn't keep going like that.''
In 2009, Mr. Hajjar made the painful decision to shutter the pub, and then the brewery, until a way could be found to keep up with demand.
During the shutdown, Mr. Hajjar, Mr. Haagen and a third partner, Thomas Norberg, a former hotelier, raised money from family members and friends to expand. They found a much bigger space outside Beirut and bought equipment for a new brewery that greatly increased capacity. It opened in 2011.
THE bigger operation does not solve a fundamental problem: the high cost of doing business in Lebanon. To make beer, 961 must import ingredients from Germany, Britain, the United States and the Czech Republic. It must also buy power and water in Lebanon, where utility prices are extremely high. After that, there are costs for exporting kegs and bottles. The brewer's beers are available in countries including the United States, Britain, France, Spain, Syria, Ghana and Australia.
''In the U.S. there are a lot of people importing grain and hops,'' Mr. Hindy of the Brooklyn Brewery said. ''You're able to benefit from the economies of scale.'' In Lebanon, by contrast, ''Mazen is the only guy there,'' so he cannot join with others to buy in bulk.
Joshua M. Bernstein, the author of ''Brewed Awakening: Behind the Beers and Brewers Leading the World's Craft Brewing Revolution,'' has tried 961's beers. ''They do a lot with beers of a classic style -- to make these more delicate beers it takes more finesse, because you don't have a lot of hops to hide behind,'' he said.
Mr. Bernstein said 961's biggest hurdle might be a long supply chain. ''So many things can go wrong,'' he said. ''Delicate beers with a lot of flavor really need to find consumers as soon after they're brewed as possible.''
Mr. Hajjar said he wanted to keep expanding internationally and was considering opening a brewery in the United States. Whether or not that becomes a reality, he has come a long way since making that first batch of beer in a city under siege.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Mazen Hajjar, chief executive of 961 Beer, a microbrewery outside Beirut, Lebanon. Above, a 961 Beer display at a Beirut supermarket. Lower left, a worker at the brewery, which produces almost two million liters a year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATE BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); BREWERIES (91%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); FESTIVALS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); CIVIL WAR (71%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

COMPANY: ACTRIS AG (92%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (92%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (96%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (90%) LEBANON (96%); UNITED STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); SYRIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



112 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: August? Get Outta Town!: In Catskills, City Buyers Recolonize Bungalows

BYLINE: By LISA SELIN DAVIS

 BODY:
Zoe Schneider was on the hunt for an affordable country house when her brother forwarded an ad to her from his Boerum Hill Listserv: a little place in the Catskills with a pool, basketball court and a playground. The price: $25,000.
''We didn't understand why the price was so low,'' said Ms. Schneider, a children's clothing designer from Harlem. Then she saw it: a 400-square-foot semi-attached cabin, set among 21 other units in a former Catskills bungalow colony, now a co-op, called Spring Glen Woods. ''I didn't even know bungalow colonies still existed,'' Ms. Schneider said. ''We put an offer on it five days later.''
Bungalow colonies became a part of lower- and middle-class Jewish life at the turn of the last century, when Jewish farmers in Orange, Ulster and Sullivan Counties began renting rooms, and then cottages, to boarders. As these expanded into full-blown developments, each one owned and operated by a single family, bungalow colonies began to offer resort-like amenities -- tennis courts, pools, communal buildings called casinos, featuring Saturday evening entertainment -- in an enclave of humble, close-knit cottages, some renting for as little as a few dollars a week. 
Eventually the area became known as the Jewish Alps, with as many as 500 bungalow colonies dotting the landscape at midcentury, the heyday of the borscht belt, according to Phil Brown of the Catskills Institute, which promotes research and education on Catskills history. As Jews assimilated and global travel expanded in the 1970s, this part of the Catskills descended into economic decline, and colonies were either taken over by Orthodox sects or abandoned; today their architectural carcasses litter the landscape.
But about a dozen former bungalow colonies became co-ops, and have attracted a new crowd: Teachers and writers, carpenters and artists, many from the city's brownstone precincts, who are, in effect, recolonizing the colonies. Allison Pennell, a writer from Park Slope, Brooklyn, bought a unit at the Lake Huntington Summer Community, once Sharon's Bungalow Colony, in Lake Huntington, N.Y., in 2006. She describes it as ''The Park Slope Food Co-op moves upstate.'' (A founding member of the Food Co-op is, in fact, a resident.)
Few colonies list their co-ops with brokers, and many of the newer residents are drawn there by contacts from within the city. Ronda Matthews, a teacher from Park Slope, was invited to Buffalo Colony, in Woodbourne, N.Y., last year by the parents of her daughter's classmate at Public School 321, who knew she was searching for an affordable second home upstate.
After one night at the outpost of 30 units, which are arrayed around a U-shaped meadow, with a pool, and mountain views, she was ready to buy. ''It's like a drug,'' she said. ''Once you try it, you're hooked.'' She bought a three-bedroom unit last year.
Perhaps most addictive is what parents call the ''beautiful freedom'' that colonies allow, for both parents and children. ''You don't need to set up play dates here,'' said Rebecca Ballantine, a teacher from Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, and a mother of five, who also bought a three-bedroom unit at Buffalo Colony last year. ''Your kids just walk outside.''
Best, say parents: They entertain themselves, and one another, all day long.
''I get up in the morning and make my daughter an egg sandwich and I see her at the end of the day,'' said Ms. Pennell's husband, Mark Pennell, whose daughter, Aidy, is 10. Parents feed whichever children show up at their bungalow come noon. ''There's a lot of mac and cheese,'' said Alise Loebelsohn, a mural painter from Park Slope who bought a two-bedroom unit at Lake Huntington in 2010.
If anyone is eating heirloom vegetables, they brought them from home. Fancy markets are a rarity in this neck of the woods; Sullivan County has the fourth highest rate of poverty in New York State, and specialty foods in markets tend to be kosher, catering to the Orthodox crowd. There are few televisions, and Internet and cellphone service can be limited. In most colonies, kitchens are diminutive, there are no granite countertops, and an entire unit might be smaller than a resident's apartment back home. At every colony residents uttered a similar refrain: The Hamptons, it's not.
''One of the first questions people ask is, 'Is there air-conditioning?' and that separates people out,'' Ms. Loebelsohn said. (There is not.) ''You'll know in the first few seconds if you like it or not.''
Each colony has its own personality. At the woodsy and quiet Buffalo Colony, which has much larger, family-size units, there are gay and straight parents, and biological and adopted children of many races. Lansman's, an 85-unit colony in Woodbourne, which was bought by former renters from back in its family-owned days, is still mostly Jewish. Stephanie Kreiner, president of the board there, said residents still play mah-jongg and attend Saturday evening entertainment in the casino. Spring Glen Woods, in Ellenville, N.Y., has residents from New Jersey, Manhattan, the Bronx and Queens. ''We want to bring it back to its heyday,'' Ms. Schneider said.
Seven new families have moved in to Spring Glen Woods since 2009, five of them recruited by Ms. Schneider. At Buffalo Colony, five new families arrived last year. Eight of Lake Huntington's 55 units have sold in the last five years, and it also offers short-term rentals, which bring in new parties all summer long.
The sales prices -- generally $15,000 to $75,000, though larger units at Buffalo Colony can top $100,000 -- are especially alluring. While real estate in gentrified Brooklyn regularly commands $700 per square foot, places like Lansman's can charge as little as $10. ''New York has felt like it's only for rich people lately,'' said Ms. Ballantine, of Buffalo Colony. ''This really feels like a place for the middle class.''
Though far less expensive than free-standing country houses, most bungalows are seasonal homes, and thus ineligible for mortgages; they must be paid for in cash, and there are supplemental yearly fees, dependent on the number of shares. Bungalows do not tend to appreciate much in value. ''We didn't buy it as an investment, and don't expect we'll make money on it,'' says Jim Moske, an archivist from Riverdale who bought a unit at Spring Glen Woods in 2009.
The new colonists say they are welcomed by the old-timers and describe the ease of colony life. ''We have a pool that we don't have to clean and a lawn that we don't have to mow,'' Ms. Matthews said. The original dream may have been to restore a ramshackle farmhouse, but this life, they have found, is far simpler. ''We don't come up to the country to do chores,'' Mr. Pennell said.
These are cooperatives, though, with their all-too-familiar board meetings and group decisions. Dishwashers and private washing machines are usually outlawed -- the electric grid couldn't handle it, even if residents wanted to modernize, and they don't. At Spring Glen Woods, visiting friends can't sleep in the casino or camp out on the lawn. At Lake Huntington, all buildings must be painted white (you can choose the trim color), and adding a deck may increase your annual fee. Don't ask Lake Huntington residents about adding a dog run unless you've got a few hours to spare.
''We have people with a lot of strong opinions,'' Ms. Loebelsohn said. ''But that's what makes it interesting.'' Solitude is hard to come by, and it may feel strange to repair to the country with your neighbors from back home, to visit the city in the woods. But accommodating the personalities among the pines is something co-op apartments and rush-hour subway rides have prepared New Yorkers for. ''You deal with it,'' Mr. Pennell said. ''Everybody just learns to get along.''
E-MAIL: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise, from top: Easy living at the Buffalo bungalow colony in Woodbourne, N.Y. Aidy Pennell, 10, rides the zip line at the Lake Huntington Summer Community in Sullivan County. Danton Boller, Zoe Schneider and their children, Lorraine, 6, right, and Cy, 3, in their bungalow at Spring Glen Woods in Ellenville, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIKO J. KALLIANIOTIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); CHILDREN (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (56%); FASHION DESIGNERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



113 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1940 words

HEADLINE: How to Land a Loft

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
Looking for a way to sidestep the frenzied open houses and excruciating bidding wars that have become prevalent these days when buying a New York City apartment? Shop commercial.
Developers have long profited from making residences out of warehouses, offices and manufacturing spaces. Now, with apartment listings exceedingly scarce and prices on the rise, some adventurous buyers are widening their options by turning to the commercial market themselves.
Taking on such a project is no easy task. Tracking down an old office or factory space that can be turned into a home presents the biggest hurdle. But an experienced broker who can help assemble a team to deal with zoning issues and expedite paperwork can make the undertaking less daunting. There are other issues, too. Traditional residential mortgages typically do not apply, so forget about financing.
Still, for those determined to create a home like no other, going commercial can mean wide-open spaces and savings of 20 percent or more compared with buying a regular apartment. If your heart is set on a quintessential New York loft but you can't find one in the residential real estate listings, consider the commercial market. 
''It's a pain in the neck, but there is so much value to unlock,'' said Robert Dankner, the president of Prime Manhattan Residential, a division of Prime Manhattan Realty, which specializes in commercial real estate. After the conversion is complete, buyers often ''emerge with a great product,'' Mr. Danker said. ''They look like geniuses.''
The competition for space in the 4,000- to 10,000-square-foot range is more likely to be from architecture firms and tech start-ups than from other residential buyers. But some people are eager for the challenge.
Spotting an investment opportunity in 2010, Bob Edgell, 66, a retired power executive from Atlanta, bought the second and third floors of an 11-story mixed-use Flatiron area building, paying about $2.3 million for each. He hired his nephew Herman Gareis to oversee the paperwork and renovation. He put about $800,000 into turning the 4,100-square-foot third floor into a five-bedroom four-bath condo. In February he listed it for $5.5 million with Paula Manikowski, a broker with the Corcoran Group. It closed in mid-May for the asking price.
Though Mr. Edgell had to carry the cost of the empty unit for a couple of years during renovations, and to pay annual commercial taxes of about $50,000 per floor until a temporary certificate of occupancy was secured in 2012, the investment seems to be paying off. ''When I started,'' he said, ''it was a bit of risk. But as the economy recovered somewhat and the Flatiron has become a more attractive location, I've gotten several inquiries on the second floor,'' which is still a work in progress.
How do you find a suitable commercial loft to call home?
''These are like diamonds in the rough,'' said Mr. Dankner of Prime Manhattan Residential, who, prompted by clients' frustration with the scarce residential listings, recently stepped up his search for eligible commercial properties. ''In the last 12 months, I've done three of these -- two in the Flatiron and another in SoHo. And considering how few exist, that's a lot.''
To start with, it is easier to convert spaces in buildings that have already undergone conversions. Some buyers enlist a broker knowledgeable about both the commercial and residential markets, who has already shepherded these transactions. Such a dual specialty is not common, but most major brokerage firms have someone on their roster with conversion experience to whom to refer clients. The Department of City Planning (nyc.gov/dcp) offers online maps and a number, (212) 720-3291, for information on whether a particular building's zone allows for residential conversions.
Because of the complexity of conversions, the department recommends that prospective buyers also consult a land-use lawyer or an architect to interpret the rules.
Residential conversions are allowed in most commercial areas designated for retail and office space, but they are trickier in districts zoned for manufacturing, which can encompass everything from factories to film production studios. Many buyers find convertible spaces in neighborhoods like TriBeCa and the meatpacking district in Manhattan, and Dumbo and Red Hook in Brooklyn, which have largely shed their manufacturing past.
A helpful strategy is to scour commercial listings on Web sites. New York subscribers to PropertyShark's Listbuilder can search for commercial space by zone, for example, for $39.95 a month.
After moving back to New York from London with her family in 2009, Liz Tiesi, an interior designer, wanted a place where she could start from scratch. Working with Cornelia Dobrovolsky, a broker at Corcoran, she found out about a six-story former textile factory in TriBeCa that was being bought by a group of investors who wanted to convert it to apartments.
''I wanted that scale and proportion,'' said Ms. Tiesi, recalling how she toured a unit in the building quietly in the middle of a workday because an architecture firm occupied it at the time. Ignoring the receptionist's desk, copy machines and conference room, she was able to see the potential in the third-floor space with 12-foot ceilings and a wall of windows overlooking Franklin Street.
There was also the savings. She and her husband, Doug, a commercial real estate banker, estimate that the space, fully renovated, cost 20 to 30 percent less per square foot than a regular apartment.
The couple bought the place for about $800 a square foot as part of a limited-liability corporation formed by the investors in June 2010. Six months later the deal closed and renovations began. The group shared expenses on elements like plumbing and common areas. The Tiesis and their two children moved into the condo in September 2011.
Headaches and challenges slowed the renovations, which continued through June of last year. Floor plans needed to be redrawn to meet accessibility regulations, and the price for windows was double what had been anticipated because they had to be custom-made. But in the end, Ms. Tiesi said, ''it was definitely worth it, because our spaces are very unique and bespoke to us.''
The family's four-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath apartment, now valued in excess of $1,700 a square foot, or more than double what they paid, has been featured on the remodeling and interior design Web site Houzz.com. It retains industrial elements like exposed brick, wooden columns and open space, all of which are increasingly rare features in New York City apartments.
''You don't get that old feel anymore,'' Ms. Tiesi said. Many new developments, even in industrial conversions, she said, ''have been stripped of their character.''
Part of the appeal of repurposed lofts is the unique detail they often retain. For instance, a 7,600-square-foot commercial loft in TriBeCa listed for nearly $5 million by Jill Sloane, a broker at Halstead Property, has cast-iron Corinthian columns, 28-foot ceilings, multiple skylights and a portion with a glass-block ceiling and floor.
If you are serious about buying a commercial unit, take an architect to see it before you fall in love. Even if a space is zoned for residential use, turning it into a home may not be possible if it doesn't meet requirements for light, air, egress and ventilation in each room, among other residential standards.
Most conversions require construction changes to meet code. Some even require changes buildingwide.
Earlier this year, Mr. Dankner of Prime Manhattan Residential came across a 4,400-square-foot loft for sale for $3.6 million in an industrial co-op building in the Flatiron district. A client of his was looking for just such a large downtown space.
Like many former manufacturing buildings, it lacked a certificate of occupancy for residential use, but a number of people were residing there illegally. Mr. Dankner figured out that the building could apply for residential conversion under the Loft Law, which provides protections for artists and others who have been living in certain commercial or manufacturing lofts in the city.
Coached by Mr. Dankner, the client was able to persuade the residents to take the steps to convert the building, including updating the sprinkler system and modifying the exits and entrances. The costs of the modifications -- about $700,000 -- will be split among 10 or 11 parties. The client closed on the loft for the asking price in March, and is now planning his renovation.
In a typical residential renovation, certain allowances can be made: for example, small bathrooms that are functional but not up to code can be grandfathered in. But when you amend a certificate of occupancy -- in this case to residential from commercial -- such allowances no longer apply. Often, bathrooms need to be expanded, said Ralph Beiran, a principal at RMBA, an architecture firm in Manhattan. Adding space to one room involves stealing it from another and can mean redrawing the floor plan.
Another common issue: Even if you meet all the requirements for obtaining a certificate of occupancy and your new space is absolutely compliant with city code, you may not be able to inhabit it if the building itself has violations.
''Nine out of 10 will have a violation with the boiler or furnace or elevator,'' Mr. Beiran said. It's important to uncover and address any issues with the building upfront, to avoid snags.
Eight years ago Carin Barbanel, a green-insulation consultant, bought an 1,800-square-foot loft in the flower district in Chelsea for $970,000. Although she and her family have lived there legally under a residential variance, they still haven't been able to amend their unit's status on the certificate of occupancy, because of matters as mundane as incorrect recycling separation.
''It should have been a 6- to 12-month process,'' Ms. Barbanel said, adding that outstanding building issues have continued to thwart her efforts. Without a certificate of occupancy to attest to the unit's compliance with city code, a new buyer could find it difficult or impossible to renew homeowner's insurance policies, or to sell or refinance.
Ultimately, Ms. Barbanel and a few other residents in the 16-unit building who were in the same boat took matters into their own hands. First they tackled the fees accumulating from improperly sorted refuse. ''I put on a mask and gloves and started going through our garbage,'' she said. ''It was disgusting.''
She supervised work on the elevator to make sure it would pass inspection. And with help from neighbors, she cleaned out the basement, clearing it of dusty sinks, old televisions and other discarded items. ''We literally got rid of all that stuff, and then because the process took so long, we did that again.''
Ms. Barbanel hopes all the elbow grease will pay off. Now that all the fees and violations have been addressed, she said, she expects to pass her final review soon.
GLOSSARY
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy Provisional approval that a dwelling is safe to occupy, subject to expiration, usually 90 days after its date of issue.
Certificate of Occupancy The key document used to certify legal use and occupancy, issued once the unit complies with applicable laws, all paperwork is completed, all fees owed to the Department of Buildings are paid, and violations are resolved.
Loft Law Article 7-c of the New York State Multiple Dwelling Law, which legitimized what had been the clandestine tenancy of artists already living in commercial spaces and regulates the conversion of certain lofts from commercial/manufacturing to safe residential use.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DONE DEAL: Liz and Doug Tiesi and their dog, Taco, in their TriBeCa loft, which was commercial space when they bought it. To evoke a vintage feel,Ms. Tiesi, an interior designer, obtained a lot of the fixtures and interior hardware from architectural salvagers. The large windows, below, had to be custom-made. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
HOME OF THE BRAVE: Liz and Doug Tiesi's building, at center in above-right photo, began life as a textile factory. They took advantage of their loft's 12-foot ceilings when they designed a bedroom for their son, George. With him in the top bunk is their daughter, Sydney. Top left, one wall in the TV room is reclaimed barn wood. Bottom, Carin Barbanel is among the residents of a Chelsea loft building who have been doing whatever it takes -- or so they hope -- to change their units' status to residential. The effort has included sorting garbage by hand. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SEAN DE BURCA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); STARTUPS (76%); ZONING (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



114 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Iran's President Puts New Focus On the Economy

BYLINE: By THOMAS ERDBRINK

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- Iran's new president, Hassan Rouhani, vowed Saturday to work with the outside world to lift the ''oppressive sanctions'' crippling the Iranian economy, as he received the official backing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei at a ceremony marking the start of his presidential term.
In an acknowledgment of the growing toll that international economic restrictions connected to Iran's nuclear program are having on the population, both Mr. Rouhani and Ayatollah Khamenei made the economy a major theme of their remarks.
''People called for change and improvement in their living standards, they want to live better,'' Mr. Rouhani said. 
But he and the ayatollah offered somewhat different solutions. Whereas Mr. Rouhani said that interactions with the world, meaning talks with Europe and potentially the United States, were a way out of the crisis, Ayatollah Khamenei, who as supreme leader has final word on all important issues, expressed pessimism that such overtures would yield fruit. ''Some of our enemies do not speak with our language of wisdom,'' he said, urging self-sufficiency.
As Mr. Rouhani takes his public oath of office on Sunday, Iran's growing economic crisis sits atop his agenda. Sanctions have slashed oil exports and limited Iran's ability to transfer money from abroad. The shortage has been aggravated by the profligate spending that is a legacy of the departing government of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
During most of Mr. Ahmadinejad's two four-year terms, Iran enjoyed an oil windfall, with a flow of dollars and euros that fueled huge imports on goods ranging from ice cream to Porsches.
But now Mr. Rouhani's aides describe Iran's economic situation as the worst in decades. Many blame what they call Mr. Ahmadinejad's erratic economic policies, punctuated by slashed subsidies and unbridled inflation.
The signs of woe abound.
Lacking money, Iran's national soccer team scrapped a training trip to Portugal. Teachers in Tehran nervously awaited their wages, which were inexplicably delayed by more than a week. Officials warned recently that food and medicine imports have stalled for three weeks because of a lack of foreign currency.
While Mr. Rouhani has asked for a hundred days to review the state of the economy and devise solutions, there are some voices who now say that the only way to solve the economic ills is to come up with a political settlement of Iran's nuclear dispute. Those voices were barely heard during Mr. Ahmadinejad's tenure.
''Rouhani's economic success depends on the determination of Iran's other leaders to find a solution for the nuclear support,'' an economics professor, Mohsen Renani of the University of Isfahan, told the Web site Neco News.
In another sign of dissatisfaction over the consequences of Iran's nuclear stance, an influential political professor publicly expressed doubt recently over the benefits of the nuclear program. ''Why are we producing radioisotopes when we can import them much cheaper?'' the professor, Sadegh Zibakalam of Tehran University, told the reformist weekly Aseman. ''Why should we maintain a nuclear program when we have no economic justification?''
While those voices may have grown louder, they by no means represent the official position of Iran's ruling establishment, which maintains that self-sufficiency in nuclear energy is nonnegotiable.
''Whatever happens, our nuclear stances will not change nor waver,'' Mohammad Taghi Rahbar, a former member of Parliament and an influential Friday Prayer leader in Isfahan, said in an interview. ''Our supreme leader, the nation and all officials from all factions believe this is our inalienable right, so we will not retreat at all.''
But ignoring the increasing economic pressures, while promising a better future -- a strategy favored by Iran's leaders over the past years -- is proving increasingly complicated. Almost everybody in Iran is feeling the pain.
''It starts with little things, like some weeks ago there was no butter to be found,'' said Somaye, 31, a teacher who asked that she not be fully identified so as not to attract the attention of the authorities. ''It makes you think, What's going on?''
Like those of other teachers in Tehran, the capital and economic pulse of the country, her wages came in unusually late this month, after officials had promised every day they would pay. It took 10 days for her salary to be transferred. ''I got in trouble with debts I had to pay,'' she said.
Last week, the Portuguese coach of Iran's soccer team, Carlos Queiroz, who helped Iran qualify for the 2014 World Cup, told local news media that an important training trip to Lisbon had been canceled because officials said there was no money to pay for it. Importers are complaining that the Central Bank is not providing them with foreign currency needed to buy products abroad. ''We really need all sorts of medicine, from contraception pills to products for hemophilia patients,'' said one influential importer who asked not to be identified because of his government contacts. ''But we can't bring them in as the Central Bank is not providing us with dollars.''
Less oil money is coming in because of the sanctions. Iran's largest customer, China, has not been paying for oil purchases with cash, instead bartering with goods and equipment at unfavorable prices, the news agency Tasmin reported last Sunday, quoting Amir Jafarpour, the manager of the Oil Ministry's transportation and fuel headquarters.
''Instead of getting our money we have been forced to buy 315 Chinese-made subway coaches at higher prices,'' he said, complaining that the Chinese were also pocketing the interest at Iranian oil bank accounts in China.
The sanctions situation could become far more onerous under legislation passed Wednesday by the United States House of Representatives, which would basically coerce Iran's remaining oil customers to find other suppliers. The legislation, which the Senate will consider next month, amounts to a threatened embargo on Iran's oil, its most important export.
Mr. Ahmadinejad defended his policies in a meeting with Ayatollah Khamenei last week, saying that Iranians had never been happier and that his government had successfully changed the way ballooning state subsidies were distributed by increasing prices of staples and giving direct cash handouts of $13 each to 60 million people each month.
But as members of Mr. Rouhani's team prepare to take over, they say they are shocked with what they are finding as they go through the books. ''The economic situation is much worse from what we expected,'' Akbar Torkan, a member of Mr. Rouhani's inner circle, told Aseman.
Others are more outspoken. ''Iran is an economical wreck,'' Yahya Ale Eshaq, a former trade minister and close ally of Mr. Rouhani, told Tejarat-e Farda, a business magazine, last week.
Warning that imported raw materials had dwindled, grinding local production to a halt, Mr. Ale Eshaq, who is also the head of the Tehran Chamber of Commerce, said that one of Mr. Rouhani's main challenges would be just to provide basic goods. ''We will face shortages,'' he said.
Mr. Rouhani has criticized Mr. Ahmadinejad's economic policies, saying that almost no jobs had been created during his two terms and that millions of Iranians could face unemployment in coming years.
He also told lawmakers that inflation was rising at an annualized rate of 42 percent -- far higher than the 32 percent rate reported by the government-controlled Central Bank. Private economists say Iran's inflation rate could be even higher.
''The outgoing government for a long time enjoyed record oil revenues,'' said Morteza Bank, a former minister who now advises Mr. Rouhani. He said that Iran was currently exporting one million barrels of oil a day. That is less than half the 2.5 million barrels a day exported before the sanctions were imposed.
''We have to make the effort to reconstruct this economical wreck,'' he told the semiofficial Iranian Labour News Agency on Saturday.
Those close to Mr. Rouhani say he will do what he can to turn the economy around. He is now asking Parliament to alter the coming budget to prevent a deficit, which means his cabinet will take unpopular measures like cutting the cash payments and increasing gasoline prices.
''Unless we take measures, we will not be able to pay the cash subsidies from December onward,'' Gholam Reza Tajgardoun, a former vice president, warned in the reformist newspaper Shargh Daily.
Members of Mr. Rouhani's inner circle have hewed to the official line that the sanctions and economic woes will not force any nuclear concessions. ''First of all we are looking for seriousness from the other side,'' said an associate of Mr. Rouhani's. ''Unless we see tangible, serious, active reach-out, we will not be persuaded to spin around empty gestures,'' the associate said, asking to remain anonymous upon Mr. Rouhani's request.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A supermarket in Tehran. Teachers in the city nervously awaited their wages, which were delayed by more than a week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VAHID SALEMI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INFLATION (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); SOCCER (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (66%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (65%); CURRENCIES (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (92%); ALI KHAMENEI (88%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (59%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); IRAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



115 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; PLAYLIST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Songs for the Club, the Faithful and the Economically Oppressed

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
French Montana
EXCUSE MY FRENCH
How do you solve a problem like French Montana? For the last couple of years, he's made a cottage industry of lifting bits of old hip-hop songs and redelivering them in his sleepy drawl, a strategy that only intermittently worked on his recent debut album, ''Excuse My French'' (Bad Boy/Interscope), which revealed him as the sum of parts but not whole. And yet he remains a regular radio presence, though not via any of his own songs. On Chris Echols's ''Smile,'' he's used in the familiar way, as a living repository of rap history, repurposing some old Lil' Kim lines from 1996's ''Crush on You'' on an R&B song that could have easily come from that era. But on DJ SpinKing's ''Body Operator,'' which also features the singer Jeremih, a different idea is at work. This is a club song: big, blocky house cut through with some reggae, some R&B and some French Montana. He's rapping carefully here, and plainly, too, but it's a success. Every word hits hard. The quicker beat turns his lethargy into something of a strategy, and he sounds like no one but himself.
Weekend 
JINX
The abrasion begins early on ''Jinx'' (Slumberland), the second album from the post-punk outfit Weekend. There are the guitars, sure, played in a fashion just left of sandpaper, but then there's the frontman, Shaun Durkan, who sings, over and again, ''I feel sick sick sick sick/In my heart.'' Almost everything on this album is grander scale than this band's 2010 debut, ''Sports,'' from the sturdiness of the melodies to the certainty of the dour mood. The album is slightly parched in places, especially when Mr. Durkan seems to be singing with his eyes rolled, but mostly the juxtaposition of gloom and urgency holds firm. And there's a little Simple Minds shimmer on ''Celebration, FL,'' which would have held up the brattiest Brat Pack soundtracks.
Eric Strickland and the B Sides
I'M BAD FOR YOU
Eric Strickland is a mournful singer, whatever the topic -- heartache, drugs, gas prices. He grieves about all those things on ''I'm Bad for You,'' the rousing and consistently impressive second self-released album by his band, Eric Strickland and the B Sides, which is facile with blues, country, Western swing and more. Mr. Strickland sings with enough flexibility to accommodate that range, but he might be an even better, and more versatile, songwriter. The elegant ''So Easy'' would have been a hit for George Jones 40 years ago, or for Hank Williams 20 or so years before that. ''Methamphetamines'' splits the difference between the agitated outlaws of the 1970s and the up-tempo country attitude of the early 1990s. Mostly his characters are rural anybodys facing struggle, but Mr. Strickland's descriptions are far from lazy. Take ''Angel Like You,'' about a couple trying not to be defined by what they lack:
He works a 50-hour week
She does too
But they can't pay the bills
And you'd think after all of this climbing they've done
They'd finally get over that hill
New Years Day
VICTIM TO VILLAIN
Borrowing from 1980s sleaze metal and 2000s pop-punk lands New Years Day not far from Paramore, a comparison it would likely loathe. New Years Day is tougher and more flamboyant, but on its excellent second album, ''Victim to Villain'' (Century Media), it's also its pop equal. That's thanks to scrappy songs with biting verses and soaring choruses from the often extravagantly made-up frontwoman, Ash Costello. She's got a sweet, cloying and sticky voice -- you can practically hear the gum snapping on songs like ''I'm No Good'' -- but that just means that when she's feeling harsh, it hits even harder. ''Bloody Mary'' is a rough evisceration of a peer, or a competitor, or a bug under Ms. Costello's shoe: ''You're just a stitched-up puppet chasing someone else's dreams.''
Kim Walker-Smith & Skyler Smith
HOME
The bookend songs of ''Home'' (Jesus Culture), the first album from Kim Walker-Smith & Skyler Smith -- a married couple who share a ministry, Only Love Remains -- are duets so spare you can virtually hear the air moving through them. They might not sound out of place on an album by the ace minimalist band Low. The rest of this striking devotional album is more lush, and stylistically diverse, from the woozy piano melodrama of ''Christ the Rock'' to the Alison Krauss-esque roots of the title track. Ms. Walker-Smith is a far more striking singer than her husband, and ''Unstoppable Love'' is her finest showcase. It's an impressive swell, with shadows of 1980s quiet-storm R&B and maybe the faintest flickers of Shontelle's bombastic 2010 ballad ''Impossible.'' And in the lyric, Ms. Walker-Smith's God is practically an action hero: ''You tore down every wall/All the while shouting/'My love, you're worth it all.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The second album from the Southern California band New Years Day, led by Ash Costello, center, is ''Victim to Villain,'' a meeting of sleaze metal and pop punk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY SAFFER)
On ''Jinx,'' the post-punk Weekend -- from left, Kevin Johnson, Shaun Durkan and Abe Pedroza -- works on a scale grander than that of the band's debut, ''Sports.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELI MARIAS)
French Montana mines old hip-hop on his debut album, ''Excuse My French.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERTO E. RODRIGUEZ/GETTY IMAGES FOR BET)
 Kim Walker-Smith, left, and Skyler Smith share a ministry, a marriage and a new album, ''Home,'' a lush and stylistically diverse collection of devotional songs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); COUNTRY MUSIC (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); RECORD RELEASES (72%); SONG WRITING (72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



116 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Older, Unemployed, And Landing The Job

BYLINE: By HIRAM GONZALEZ. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I WAS laid off four times in my career before I turned 50. But when it happened again two years ago, I had just turned 59. Getting laid off at that age is a different ballgame. I knew I could bring value to a company, but in moments of frustration during the job hunt, I wondered how long it would take to find another job, and there was always the chance I wouldn't be able to find one.
In 2011, I was an account executive with Scor Global Life Americas Reinsurance Company, in Plano, Tex., near where I live. When Scor acquired Transamerica Reinsurance, I was laid off along with several other people that October. 
At that point I called Mike Pado, a former colleague at Scor who had left the company several months earlier for a job as president and C.E.O. of Aurigen USA Holdings. Aurigen is based in Bermuda, and Mike had been hired to look at starting a life reinsurance company in the United States.
Mike, who works out of Red Bank, N.J., was still in the planning stages for the new venture when I spoke to him. He said that at some point he'd need a person who knew the reinsurance industry and its top executives and could contact them for a snapshot of the United States market. He knew I fit that bill. But he was hoping that the person he hired would also be an actuary. I'm familiar with risk assessment and risk management in that field, but I'm not an actuary. So besides my age, I was worried about that.
I had done a good job at Scor for 12 years, and I was disappointed that I had been laid off. My level of anxiety was fairly high. The Aurigen venture sounded like a great opportunity if it worked out. But the business world often has certain misperceptions about workers 55 and older. Some people think we're set in our ways, we don't have the energy we used to have, or that we've lost our drive. They may worry about offering us a lower salary than we earned previously. I knew I'd have to address these concerns when job-hunting.
I told Mike I was interested in working for him, and we left it that we'd stay in touch while he continued to develop a business plan and consider a staff for the United States company. In the meantime, I sent out 300 rsums. I heard back from about a third of the companies and had about 12 or 15 interviews, but no luck.
By June 2012, eight months after Mike and I first talked, I still hadn't found a job. Then Mike called and said he could offer me a three-month position as a marketing consultant, and that we'd see what happened after that. I was excited, but a consulting job was not ideal for me. I told him I would do the best job I could for him but would continue looking for a staff job with benefits, and he understood.
Consulting works well for people who like short-term projects and freedom, but I've always liked having a staff job. I like the feeling of belonging, and benefits are important.
I started talking to executives right away to gather the information Mike wanted and help him determine whether there was room for another entrant in the United States life reinsurance industry. I spoke to a vice chairman, 11 company presidents, 25 chief actuaries and 30 life underwriters and sent Aurigen's annual report to customers and others, sometimes with a handwritten note.
My work helped Mike make a case to his board that another United States life reinsurance company could do well. In October I got the news that Mike's proposal had been accepted. He was finally able to hire me as an account executive on staff for his new-business development team. I was able to stay in Texas for my new job at Aurigen.
Right after hiring me, Mike had me join him and the Aurigen pricing team at the October 2012 conference of the Society of Actuaries in Washington. Many industry executives attend, and I'd help sell prospective clients on the benefits of working with the new venture.
When word got out that I'd been hired, my former colleagues gave me a warm reception, which was nice. Several welcomed me back to the industry, and one asked about my sales territories. It felt great to know that I hadn't been forgotten.
Rather than start a new company from scratch, Mike began looking at United States insurance companies to buy, choosing one that Aurigen closed on and renamed this past spring.
Some people might have no problem retiring after being laid off at 59. Maybe they tell themselves it's not what they would have wanted, but they make the best of it. Or maybe they are ready to retire, so it turned out to be perfect timing. I'll be 61 in September, but I want to keep working, so getting a chance at this job worked out well for me.
It's easy to get depressed about being an older job seeker. You have to keep your eyes open, stay focused, and be open to possibilities. You never know when and how an opportunity may come along.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hiram Gonzalez, an account executive with the Aurigen Reinsurance Company of America, was a marketing consultant before being hired full time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK PERLSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REINSURANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); INSURANCE (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); OLDER WORKERS (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%)

COMPANY: SCOR SE (84%)

TICKER: SCR (SWX) (84%); SCR (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BERMUDA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



117 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3792 words

HEADLINE: For Medical Tourists, Simple Math

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
WARSAW, Ind. -- Michael Shopenn's artificial hip was made by a company based in this remote town, a global center of joint manufacturing. But he had to fly to Europe to have it installed.
Mr. Shopenn, 67, an architectural photographer and avid snowboarder, had been in such pain from arthritis that he could not stand long enough to make coffee, let alone work. He had health insurance, but it would not cover a joint replacement because his degenerative disease was related to an old sports injury, thus considered a pre-existing condition.
Desperate to find an affordable solution, he reached out to a sailing buddy with friends at a medical device manufacturer, which arranged to provide his local hospital with an implant at what was described as the ''list price'' of $13,000, with no markup. But when the hospital's finance office estimated that the hospital charges would run another $65,000, not including the surgeon's fee, he knew he had to think outside the box, and outside the country.
''That was a third of my savings at the time,'' Mr. Shopenn said recently from the living room of his condo in Boulder, Colo. ''It wasn't happening.'' 
''Very leery'' of going to a developing country like India or Thailand, which both draw so-called medical tourists, he ultimately chose to have his hip replaced in 2007 at a private hospital outside Brussels for $13,660. That price included not only a hip joint, made by Warsaw-based Zimmer Holdings, but also all doctors' fees, operating room charges, crutches, medicine, a hospital room for five days, a week in rehab and a round-trip ticket from America.
''We have the most expensive health care in the world, but it doesn't necessarily mean it's the best,'' Mr. Shopenn said. ''I'm kind of the poster child for that.''
As the United States struggles to rein in its growing $2.7 trillion health care bill, the cost of medical devices like joint implants, pacemakers and artificial urinary valves offers a cautionary tale. Like many medical products or procedures, they cost far more in the United States than in many other developed countries.
Makers of artificial implants -- the biggest single cost of most joint replacement surgeries -- have proved particularly adept at commanding inflated prices, according to health economists. Multiple intermediaries then mark up the charges. While Mr. Shopenn was offered an implant in the United States for $13,000, many privately insured patients are billed two to nearly three times that amount.
An artificial hip, however, costs only about $350 to manufacture in the United States, according to Dr. Blair Rhode, an orthopedist and entrepreneur whose company is developing generic implants. In Asia, it costs about $150, though some quality control issues could arise there, he said.
So why are implant list prices so high, and rising by more than 5 percent a year? In the United States, nearly all hip and knee implants -- sterilized pieces of tooled metal, plastic or ceramics -- are made by five companies, which some economists describe as a cartel. Manufacturers tweak old models and patent the changes as new products, with ever-bigger price tags.
Generic or foreign-made joint implants have been kept out of the United States by trade policy, patents and an expensive Food and Drug Administration approval process that deters start-ups from entering the market. The ''companies defend this turf ferociously,'' said Dr. Peter M. Cram, a physician at the University of Iowa medical school who studies the costs of health care.
Though the five companies make similar models, each cultivates intense brand loyalty through financial ties to surgeons and the use of a different tool kit and operating system for the installation of its products; orthopedists typically stay with the system they learned on. The thousands of hospitals and clinics that purchase implants try to bargain for deep discounts from manufacturers, but they have limited leverage since each buys a relatively small quantity from any one company.
In addition, device makers typically require doctors' groups and hospitals to sign nondisclosure agreements about prices, which means institutions do not know what their competitors are paying. This secrecy erodes bargaining power and has allowed a small industry of profit-taking middlemen to flourish: joint implant purchasing consultants, implant billing companies, joint brokers. There are as many as 13 layers of vendors between the physician and the patient for a hip replacement, according to Kate Willhite, a former executive director of the Manitowoc Surgery Center in Wisconsin.
Hospitals and orthopedic clinics typically pay $4,500 to $7,500 for an artificial hip, according to MD Buyline and Orthopedic Network News, which track device pricing. But those numbers balloon with the cost of installation equipment and all the intermediaries' fees, including an often hefty hospital markup.
That is why the hip implant for Joe Catugno, a patient at the Hospital for Joint Diseases in New York, accounted for nearly $37,000 of his approximately $100,000 hospital bill; Cigna, his insurer, paid close to $70,000 of the charges. At Mills-Peninsula Health Services in San Mateo, Calif., Susan Foley's artificial knee, which costs about the same as a hip joint, was billed at $26,000 in a total hospital tally of $112,317. The components of Sonja Nelson's hip at Sacred Heart Hospital in Pensacola, Fla., accounted for $30,581 of her $50,935 hospital bill. Insurers negotiate discounts on those charges, and patients have limited responsibility for the differences.
The basic design of artificial joints has not changed for decades. But increased volume -- about one million knee and hip replacements are performed in the United States annually -- and competition have not lowered prices, as would typically happen with products like clothes or cars. ''There are a bunch of implants that are reasonably similar,'' said James C. Robinson, a health economist at the University of California, Berkeley. ''That should be great for the consumer, but it isn't.'''Sticky Pricing'
The American health care market is plagued by such ''sticky pricing,'' in which prices of products remain high or even increase over time instead of dropping. The list price of a total hip implant increased nearly 300 percent from 1998 to 2011, according to Orthopedic Network News, a newsletter about the industry. That is a result, economists say, of how American medicine generally sets charges: without government regulation or genuine marketplace competition.
''Manufacturers will tell you it's R&D and liability that makes implants so expensive and that they have the only one like it,'' said Dr. Rory Wright, an orthopedist at the Orthopedic Hospital of Wisconsin, a top specialty clinic. ''They price this way because they can.''
Zimmer Holdings declined to comment on pricing. But Sheryl Conley, a longtime Zimmer manager who is now the chief executive of OrthoWorx, a local trade group in Warsaw, said that high prices reflected the increasing complexity of the joint implant business, including more advanced materials, new regulatory requirements and the logistics of providing a now huge array of devices. ''When I started, there weren't even left and right knee components,'' she said. ''It was one size fits all.''
Mr. Shopenn's Zimmer hip has transformed his life, as did the replacement joint for Mr. Catugno, a TV director; Ms. Foley, a lawyer; and Ms. Nelson, a software development executive. Mr. Shopenn, an exuberant man who maintains a busy work schedule, recently hosted his son's wedding and spent 26 days last winter teaching snowboarding to disabled people.
His joint implant and surgery in Belgium were priced according to a different logic. Like many other countries, Belgium oversees major medical purchases, approving dozens of different types of implants from a selection of manufacturers, and determining the allowed wholesale price for each of them, for example. That price, which is published, currently averages about $3,000, depending on the model, and can be marked up by about $180 per implant. (The Belgian hospital paid about $4,000 for Mr. Shopenn's high-end Zimmer implant at a time when American hospitals were paying an average of over $8,000 for the same model.)
''The manufacturers do not have the right to sell an implant at a higher rate,'' said Philip Boussauw, director of human resources and administration at St. Rembert's, the hospital where Mr. Shopenn had his surgery. Nonetheless, he said, there was ''a lot of competition'' among American joint manufacturers to work with Belgian hospitals. ''I'm sure they are making money,'' he added.
Dr. Cram, the Iowa health cost expert, points out that joint manufacturers are businesses, operating within the constraints of varying laws and markets.
''Imagine you're the C.E.O. of Zimmer,'' he said. ''Why charge $1,000 for the implant in the U.S. when you can charge $14,000? How would you answer to your shareholders?'' Expecting device makers ''to do otherwise is like asking, 'Couldn't Apple just charge $50 for an iPhone?' because that's what it costs to make them.''
But do Americans want medical devices priced like smartphones? ''That,'' Dr. Cram said, ''is a different question.''A Miracle for Many
When joint replacement surgery first became widely used in the 1970s, it was reserved for older patients with crippling pain from arthritis, to offer relief and restore some mobility. But as technology and techniques improved, its use broadened to include younger, less debilitated patients who wanted to maintain an active lifestyle, including vigorous sports or exercise.
In the first few decades, implants were typically cemented into place. But since the 1980s, many surgeons have used implants made of more sophisticated materials that allow the patient's own bone to grow in to hold the device in place. For most patients, implants have proved miraculous in improving quality of life, which is why socialized medical systems tend to cover them. Per capita, more hip replacements are done in Britain, Sweden and the Netherlands, for example, than in the United States.
Motivated in part by science and in part by the need to create new markets, joint makers churn out new designs that are patented, priced higher and introduced with free training courses for surgeons. Some use more durable materials so that a patient requiring a hip implant at age 40 or 50 might rely on it longer than the standard 20 years, while other models are streamlined and require smaller incisions.
Zimmer got a big sales bump a few years ago when it began promoting its new ''female knee,'' a slightly slimmer version of its standard design, in an advertising campaign directed at patients. Hospitals on average pay about $800 more to buy the gender-specific knee implants, according to MD Buyline.
Many doctors say that for most patients, older, standard implants with a successful track record are appropriate. Expensive modifications make no difference for the typical patient, but they drive up prices for all models and have sometimes proved to be deeply flawed, they say.
In the last few years, joint manufacturers have faced lawsuits and have settled claims with patients after new, all-metal implants, which were meant to be more durable than the standard version, had unusually high failure rates. As for those ''female knees,'' a study featured at the meeting of the American College of Orthopedic Surgeons this year concluded, ''While we certainly use the female components frequently in surgery, we don't detect any objective improvement in clinical outcomes.''
That is why Dr. Scott S. Kelley, an orthopedist affiliated with Duke University Medical Center, generally tries to dissuade patients who request ''new, improved'' joints. ''I tell them: 'That's taking a big risk for the potential of a few percentage points of improvement. You wouldn't invest your retirement account this way.' '' A Town's Lifeblood
The power and profits of the medical device industry are on display here in Warsaw, which has trademarked itself the Orthopedic Capital of the World. Four of the big five joint manufacturers in the world are based in the United States; the other is in Britain. Three of these giants -- Zimmer, Biomet and DePuy, a division of Johnson & Johnson -- have their headquarters here, a town of 14,000.
An industry that began as a splint-making shop in 1895 has made Warsaw the center of a global multibillion-dollar business. The companies based here produce about 60 percent of the hip and knee devices used in the United States and one-third of the world's orthopedic sales volume, local officials said. Nearly half the jobs in Kosciusko County, where Warsaw is, are tied to the industry. Residents joke that a mixed marriage is when one spouse works for Zimmer and the other for DePuy.
The industry's benefits are evident. The county has the lowest unemployment rate in Northern Indiana, and the median family income of $50,000 puts it significantly above the state average. The town boasts lush golf courses and streets lined with spacious homes. The lobby of the elegant City Hall, which is in a restored 1912 bank, features plaques about device manufacturers.
''We eat, sleep and breathe orthopedics,'' said Ms. Conley of OrthoWorx, which she said was set up to ''plan for the future of the orthopedic industry here.'' OrthoWorx's board of directors includes executives from Biomet and DePuy.
With a high-tech industry as its lifeblood, Ms. Conley said, Warsaw needed to attract engineers and doctors from afar and train local youths for ''the business.'' It has upgraded the public schools and helped create programs at local colleges in orthopedic regulation and advanced machinist techniques.
Officials at OrthoWorx say the device makers do not discuss ''competitive issues'' among themselves, including the prices of implants, even as employees stand together watching their children play baseball. Still, it is in everyone's interest not to undercut the competition. In 2011, all three manufacturers had joint implant sales exceeding $1 billion and spent about only 5 percent of revenues on research and development, compared with 20 percent in the pharmaceutical industry, said Stan Mendenhall, the editor of Orthopedic Network News. They each paid their chief executives over $8 million.
''It's amazing to think there is $5 billion to $6 billion going through this little place in Northern Indiana,'' said Mr. Mendenhall, adding that the recession has meant only single-digit annual revenue growth rather than the double-digit growth of the past.
Device makers have used some of their profits to lobby Congress and to buy brand loyalty. In 2007, joint makers paid $311 million to settle Justice Department accusations that they were paying kickbacks to surgeons who used their devices; Zimmer paid the biggest fine, $169.5 million. That year, nearly 1,000 orthopedists in the United States received a total of about $200 million in payments from joint manufacturers for consulting, royalties and other activities, according to data released as part of the settlement.
Despite that penalty, payments continued, according to a paper published in The Archives of Internal Medicine in 2011. While some of the orthopedists are doing research for the companies, the roles of others is unclear, said Dr. Cram, one of the study's authors.
Although only a tiny percentage of orthopedists receive payments directly from manufacturers, the web of connections is nonetheless tangled.
Companies ''build a personal relationship with the doctor,'' said Professor Robinson, the Berkeley economist. ''The companies hire sales reps who are good at engineering and good at golf. They bring suitcases into the operating room,'' advising which tools might work best among the hundreds they carry, he said. And some studies have shown that operations attended by a company representative are more likely to use more and costlier medical equipment. While some hospitals have banned manufacturers' representatives from the operating room, or have at least blocked salesmanship there, most have not.No Gift Shop
There are, of course, a number of factors that explain why Mr. Shopenn's surgery in Belgium would cost many times more in the United States. In America, fees for hospitals, scans, physical therapy and surgeons are generally far higher. And in Belgium, even private hospitals are more spartan.
When Mr. Shopenn arrived at the hospital, he was taken aback by the contrast with NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, where his father had been a patient a year before. The New York facility had ''comfortable waiting rooms, an elegant lobby and newsstands,'' Mr. Shopenn remembered.
But in Belgium, he said, ''I was immediately scared because at first I thought, this is really old. The chairs in the waiting rooms were metal, the walls were painted a pale green, there was no gift shop. But then I realized everything was new. It was just functional. There wasn't much of a nod to comfort because they were there to provide health care.''
The pricing system in Belgium does not encourage amenities, though the country has among the lowest surgical infection rates in the world -- lower than in the United States -- and is known for good doctors. While most Belgian physicians and hospitals are in business for themselves, the government sets pricing and limits profits. Hospitals get a fixed daily rate and surgeons receive a fee for each surgery, which are negotiated each year between national medical groups and the state.
While doctors may charge more than the rate, few do so because most patients would refuse to pay it, said Mr. Boussauw, the hospital administrator. Doctors and hospitals must provide estimates. European orthopedists tend to make about half the income of their American counterparts, whose annual income averaged $442,450 in 2011, according to a survey by the Commonwealth Fund, a foundation that studies health policy.
Belgium pays for health care through a mandatory national insurance plan, which requires contributions from employers and workers and pays for 80 percent of each treatment. Except for the poor, patients are generally responsible for the remaining 20 percent of charges, and many get private insurance to cover that portion.
Mr. Shopenn's surgery, which was uneventful, took place on a Tuesday. On Friday he was transferred for a week to the hospital's rehabilitation unit, where he was taught exercises to perform once he got home.
Twelve days after his arrival, he paid the hospital's standard price for hip replacements for foreign patients. Six weeks later he saw an orthopedist in Seattle, where he was living at the time, to remove stitches and take a postoperative X-ray. ''He said there was no need for further visits, that the hip looked great, to go out and enjoy myself,'' Mr. Shopenn said.
With baby boomers determined to continue skiing, biking and running into their 60s and beyond, economists predict a surge in joint replacement surgeries, and more procedures for younger patients. The number of hip and knee replacements is expected to roughly double between 2010 and 2020, according to Exponent, a scientific consulting firm, and perhaps quadruple by 2030. If insurers paid $36,000 for each surgery, a fairly typical price in the commercial sector, the total cost would be $144 billion, about a sixth of the nation's military budget last year.
So far, attempts to bring down the price of medical devices have been undercut by the industry.
When Dr. Daniel S. Elliott of the Mayo Clinic decided to continue using an older, cheaper valve to cure incontinence because studies showed that it was just as good as a newer, more expensive model, the manufacturer raised its price.
''If there was a generic, I'd be there tomorrow,'' he said.
With artificial joints, cost-trimming efforts have been similarly ineffective. Medicare does not negotiate directly with manufacturers, but offers all-inclusive payments for surgery to hospitals to prompt them to bargain harder for better implant prices. Instead, hospitals complain that acquiring the implant consumes 50 percent to 70 percent of Medicare's reimbursement, which now averages $12,099, up 25 percent from $9,645 in 1993. Meanwhile, surgeons' fees have dropped by nearly half.
With the federal government unwilling to intervene directly, some doctors and insurance plans are themselves trying to reduce the costs by mandating preset prices or forcing more competition and transparency.
After concluding that hip replacements billed at $100,000 yielded no better results than less expensive ones, the California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers, told members that it would pay hospitals $30,000 for a hip or knee replacement, and dozens of hospitals have met that number.
Dr. Wright's orthopedic hospital near Milwaukee has driven down payments for joints by more than 30 percent by resolving to use only two types of hip implants and requiring blind bids directly from the manufacturers; part of the savings is passed on to patients.
The Affordable Care Act tries to recoup some of the medical device manufacturers' profits by imposing a 2.3 percent tax on their revenues, effective this year. But Brad Bishop, the executive director of OrthoWorx and a former Zimmer executive, said that the approach would harm an innovative American industry, and that the cost would ultimately be borne by joint replacement patients ''whose average age is 67.'' He argued that the best way to reduce the cost of joint replacement surgery was to rescind the tax and decrease government interference.
The medical device industry spent nearly $30 million last year on lobbying, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. The Senate moved to repeal the tax, and the House is expected to take it up this fall. The bill's supporters included both senators from Indiana.
Mr. Shopenn's new hip worked so well that a few months after returning from Belgium he needed a hernia operation -- a result of too much working out at the gym. He was home by 4 p.m. the day of the outpatient surgery, but the bill came to $16,500. Though his insurance company covered the procedure, he called the hospital's finance department for an explanation.
He remembers in particular a ''surreal'' discussion with a ''very nice'' administrator about a $750 bill for a surgical drain, which he called ''a piece of plastic in a sealed bag.''
''It was mind-boggling to me that the surgery could possibly cost this much,'' he said, ''after what I'd just done in Belgium.''
Paying Till It Hurts: Articles in this series are examining the high costs of common medical encounters and how they contribute to health care spending in the United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Shopenn turned to a private hospital outside Brussels to have an artificial hip, like the one shown above, implanted in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
MICHAEL SHOPENN, above, on Copper Mountain in Colorado in April. Far left, St. Rembert's, the Belgian hospital where Mr. Shopenn had his hip replaced in 2007. Left, Philip Boussauw, a hospital administrator, in the rehabilitation unit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
THOMAS VANDEN DRIESSCHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
STAN MENDENHALL, the editor of Orthopedic Network News, on Warsaw, Ind. The town, which is home to Zimmer Holdings and two other leading joint manufacturers, calls itself the Orthopedic Capital of the World. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAYLOR GLASCOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
DR. RORY WRIGHT, an orthopedist, says joint makers keep prices high ''because they can,'' not because of research and development or liability costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SUSAN FOLEY, top, a lawyer, outside her home in Piedmont, Calif. Her artificial knee, which was implanted at Mills-Peninsula Health Services in San Mateo, above, was billed at $26,000 in a hospital tally of $112,317. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) CHARTS: Comparing Two Operations: U.S. figures are for one patient's operation at the Hospital for Joint Diseases in New York in 2012. Figures for Belgium are for Michael Shopenn's operation and reflect the exchange rate at the time of the surgery. (A1)
 Staying Active: The number of hip replacements has grown sharply in recent years, with much of the increase coming from people younger than 65 years old. (Source: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL TOURISM (90%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (90%); ORTHOPEDICS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MEDICAL DEVICES (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); ARTHRITIS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (78%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); SPORTS INJURIES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); HOSPITALS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (64%); SNOWBOARDING (57%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (57%)

COMPANY: ZIMMER HOLDINGS INC (54%)

TICKER: ZMH (SWX) (54%); ZMH (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) INDIANA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (88%); ASIA (69%); THAILAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



118 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: A Washington Riddle: What Is 'Top Secret'?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER. 
The chief Washington correspondent for The New York Times.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- LESS than 24 hours after Pfc. Bradley Manning was convicted last week of handing off 250,000 State Department cables and defense documents to WikiLeaks, The Guardian published on its Web site the latest classified material from the leaker of the moment, Edward J. Snowden. That installment included the National Security Agency's playbook for XKeyscore, a powerful surveillance program enabling the agency's analysts to monitor and trace Internet searches around the globe.
The cases have provided lots of cable-television drama, from Private Manning's court-martial to Moscow's provocative granting of temporary asylum to America's best-known fugitive. But the deeper lessons lie in how the government is stumbling in its efforts to protect its secrets in the Internet age. Washington has still not heeded two decades of warnings that the best way to protect America's biggest secrets is to have far fewer of them and to recognize that much of what is stamped ''secret'' today is widely available on the Internet. 
There are certainly some secrets the government needs to protect, but many of the most important clues about revolutions, nuclear transfers and new military sites can be found online, in open chat rooms and commercial satellite photos.
In the early days of the cold war, secrecy seemed simpler. Classified documents were almost all on paper, making it far easier to limit access to officials with top clearances. There were not yet 16 intelligence agencies, much less the post-9/11 directives for them to share information they had once kept ''stovepiped,'' so that others could not get to it.
It was this pooling of information that allowed Private Manning, sitting at a remote outpost in Iraq, to download cables from the American Embassy in Beijing, and let Mr. Snowden, at a small base in Hawaii, to download -- without setting off alarms -- documents about intelligence collection operations and secret court decisions that had nothing to do with his job.
''This failure originated from two practices that we need to reverse,'' Ashton B. Carter, the deputy secretary of defense, said recently. ''There was an enormous amount of information concentrated in one place,'' he said. ''That's a mistake.'' And second, no individual should be given the kind of access Mr. Snowden had, Mr. Carter said. That has led to a new ''two-person rule'' for downloading classified data, akin to the two guys who would sit in nuclear silos, each with a separate key needed to launch a missile.
But that tactical solution doesn't get to the core issue: When far too much information gets classified, nothing is really classified. Respect for the system erodes when information readily available in open sources is ostensibly guarded with high-level classification. It was this habit that Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan railed against 20 years ago in ''Secrecy,'' a book detailing the corrosive effects of over-classification.
Mr. Moynihan might roar at recent examples. The bona fide secrets in those 250,000 cables were hidden among thousands of newspaper articles that someone had stamped ''secret'' and sent to the State Department.
A more serious problem erupts when classification collides with other American interests. Consider the least covert secret program in the American arsenal: drones. Every drone attack in Pakistan and Yemen made the local news, and Twitter, in hours. Often those reports were accompanied by huge exaggerations about civilian casualties. But the American ambassador in Pakistan was forced to let those claims go unanswered, because the program was classified. ''We did far more damage to our national security pretending we knew nothing,'' one senior American official said in frustration, ''than if we had owned up to them and said, 'Here's a list of terrorists we just put out of action.' ''
Now, after years of investigative news reports, President Obama has begun talking about the program publicly. But he has steadfastly refused to show an equal willingness to justify America's use of cyberweapons. That has many government officials and corporate executives worried because there are no global rules defining legitimate and illegitimate cyberattacks.
Administration officials say Mr. Obama has succeeded in reducing, by 42 percent, the number of ''new secrets'' classified by the government last year -- to a little over 72,000.
But the White House has had less success redefining what should be classified. A 2008 report by the director of national intelligence acknowledged, ''The definitions of 'national security' and what constitutes 'intelligence' -- and thus what must be classified -- are unclear.''
That seemed obvious over the past week when the government suddenly declassified the secret court order that was the basis for collecting ''metadata'' on every telephone call made in the United States. It was unclear why it could not have been made public years ago -- especially since, as one intelligence official said recently, ''terrorists have thought for years we collect this stuff.''
''The reality is that much is classified just to take the issue off the public agenda,'' said Steve Aftergood, a secrecy expert at the Federation of American Scientists. ''That's not what classification is for, but it often serves that purpose.''
So how might the government deal with its classification problem? Herb Lin, a researcher at the National Academy of Sciences, believes that budgets must be used to change behavior.
''The incentives to classify information are many, and the incentives to refrain from classifying it are few,'' he noted recently, adding that he was speaking just for himself. ''Classifying information doesn't incur any monetary cost for the classifier, and any economist will tell you that a free good will be overused.''
So he proposes that the Pentagon and intelligence agencies should be given a budget, and every time a ''top secret'' stamp is used, it should be charged against that budget.
Intelligence officials would argue that you can't put a price on national security and that classification decisions shouldn't be made with budgets in mind. But Mr. Lin's idea drives home a point: that secrecy and security are often not synonymous.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAN TAGUE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MILITARY OFFENSES (78%); MILITARY COURTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); WEB SITES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); CHAT ROOMS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (58%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (53%) HAWAII, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



119 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Elastic Numbers Make It Hard to Get a Handle on the Economy

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
A TORRENT of economic numbers rained down from Washington last week. They provided a sharper historical perspective on the economy back to 1929.
Yet the deluge of statistics did little to clarify an urgent question: How strong is the economy right now?
It's a basic issue -- one that affects the life of every American, the policy decisions of the Federal Reserve, the strategies of businesses and the performance of the markets. Unfortunately, the answer is by no means clear. 
There are plenty of fresh numbers, though. On Friday morning, the Labor Department said the unemployment rate dropped in July to 7.4 percent, from 7.6 percent the previous month, and a total of 162,000 new nonfarm payroll jobs were created.
This is good news, but perhaps not as good as it seems. Even at 7.4 percent, unemployment remains uncomfortably high, and the government on Friday also revised downward job creation numbers for the previous two months, from 195,000 per month, to 176,000 for May and 188,000 for June. The Fed, acknowledging things are not as good as they could be four years after a major recession, reaffirmed its loose monetary policy. That policy, based on the assumption that the economy still needs emergency support, has helped hold interest rates to relatively low levels, and helped propel the stock market to new highs last week.
Gross domestic product numbers released on Wednesday also suggested that the economy was still ailing. In the second quarter of 2013, the Bureau of Economic Analysis said, the growth rate of G.D.P. was 1.7 percent, on a seasonally adjusted, annualized basis. That's just a preliminary number, subject to extensive revision. For the first quarter, the bureau now says G.D.P. grew at a 1.1 percent rate -- after a series of reductions from its initial estimate of 2.5 percent.
But how weak is the economy? The numbers don't appear to fit a coherent pattern. Even with the downward revisions in the labor figures, the current level of job creation is greater than would typically be expected from a weak economy. The lackluster G.D.P. picture is hard to reconcile with the decline in the unemployment rate we've been seeing, said Joseph G. Carson, director of global economic research at AllianceBernstein. ''During similar tepid growth environments in the past, unemployment has sometimes even increased rather than declined,'' he said.
Something's wrong with the numbers. ''Growth in the private sector, which has been running at 3.3 percent, probably helps to explain the drop in the jobless rate,'' he said. He believes the overall G.D.P. figures aren't yet really capturing reality and that it's likely that G.D.P. growth over the last two years has actually been stronger than reported. Mr. Carson is optimistic about the second half of this year. ''I think the economy will be picking up, and the numbers will start to show that.''
The numbers are remarkably malleable, as the Bureau of Economic Analysis demonstrated last week.
In addition to the normal range of monthly and weekly economic reports, the bureau issued an ambitious revision of its statistics, adjusting a vast range of figures going back more than 80 years. Its revision showed that the recent recession was a little less severe than earlier reported, and the recovery has been a bit stronger. The economy shrank at an average annual pace of 2.9 percent, not 3.2 percent, in the recession that started in December 2007 and ended in June 2009. And from the recession's end through 2012, the economy grew at an average annual rate of 2.2 percent, not 2.1 percent as previously published.
Those numbers would still classify the recession as the worst since World War II, and the recovery as the weakest. Further revisions will be made as needed, and, given the anomalies in the current data, it seemed likely that some future changes will be significant. Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, alluded to this possibility in Congressional testimony last month.
''We all should keep in mind that these are very rough estimates and they get revised,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''For example, you get somewhat different numbers when you look at gross domestic income instead of gross domestic product.''
IN theory, G.D.I. and G.D.P. should be equal. One measures gross income, the other gross production, and as a matter of basic accounting they ought to match. But they don't, not in real time, because they are collected from different sources using different deadlines and definitions. G.D.P., for example, depends heavily on sales receipts, while G.D.I. relies on data from paychecks, which are often issued well after sales are made, said J. Steven Landefeld, director of the bureau. ''G.D.I. and G.D.P. are both the bureau's children,'' he said. ''We're proud of both, and we know they're different.''
Early G.D.I. numbers have provided a better indicator of cyclical changes in the economy -- of the onset and the end of the last recession, in particular -- than have early readings of G.D.P., according to research by Jeremy J. Nalewaik, a Fed economist.
What are the G.D.I. numbers telling us now? It depends on how you look at them. The Economic Cycle Research Institute, an independent forecaster, said that the economy fell into another recession ''sometime in the middle of 2012 and it is still in a recession now,'' according to Lakshman Achuthan, the institute's chief operations officer. He relied in part on G.D.I. data. But the vast majority of mainstream economists reject this interpretation, and Mr. Landefeld said G.D.I. numbers might sometimes exaggerate economic trends.
The G.D.P. and G.D.I. numbers available right now indicate that the economy is growing, but Mr. Achuthan said that the historical revisions made last week ''are a reminder that these numbers are all a moving target, and that they will change.''
Mr. Carson of AllianceBernstein is far more sanguine, saying the economy appears to be growing modestly. But he agrees that the data isn't allowing clear visibility. ''We've gotten so many new numbers,'' he said. ''They help a bit. Now the past has become a little less foggy, but as for the present, there's still plenty of fog to go around.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: Is This a Strong Economy? Unemployment: 7.4%
 G.D.P. up by: 1.7% 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); HISTORY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (70%)

COMPANY: ALLIANCEBERNSTEIN HOLDING LP (51%)

TICKER: AB (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



120 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Public Pensions After Detroit

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Detroit's bankruptcy and the problems facing its pension funds offer two important lessons to other communities. One is that state and local governments need to do a much better job managing retirement funds. The other is that they should not pre-emptively reduce hard-earned benefits at the first sign of trouble. 
Several state and local pension systems around the country are under serious stress. Not surprisingly the hardest hit retirement funds are in places devastated by global economic forces like Detroit, as well as inland cities in California like Stockton, which was battered by the real estate collapse and has also sought bankruptcy protection. Other troubled funds include state-employee and teacher retirement systems in Illinois and Connecticut, where government officials have long mismanaged public finances.
The biggest problem is that officials have repeatedly failed to set aside enough money to cover the benefits they have promised workers, according to a recent report by Moody's, the credit ratings firm. Some states and cities have compounded their problems by trying to compensate with risky bets, like investing heavily in hedge funds in hopes of earning high returns. (And hedge funds are hardly surefire winners.) Or, like Detroit, they borrowed money to sustain their pension systems without having a solid plan for repaying the new debt.
Avoiding a Detroit-like downward spiral requires discipline and intelligence. Most urgent, officials overseeing troubled funds need to save more money. They also should leave investment choices to seasoned professional managers. In some cases they might have no choice but to reduce benefits, which shouldn't happen before other creditors are asked to take a haircut and before consulting with workers and retirees.
Most government retirement systems are in much better shape than critics suggest. While many pension funds suffered losses during the financial crisis, they should be able to pay out benefits to retirees as long as governments keep funding them adequately and the economy continues to recover. Some lawmakers like Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, have suggested that cities and states reduce benefits for retirees or force them into riskier and more expensive retirement options including annuities and 401(k) plans. That would be the wrong lesson to learn from Detroit.
All states and cities -- and not just those facing imminent crisis -- would do well to examine a promising approach to pension management recently adopted by the Canadian province of New Brunswick with the support of the province's labor unions.
New Brunswick's approach splits benefits for retirees into two tiers: base and ancillary. The idea is to guarantee basic benefits and allow ancillary benefits (like cost of living adjustments) to fluctuate based on the health of the pension fund. If a fund's investments fall too much, the government kicks in more money and retirees do not get some of the ancillary benefits. If it does better than expected, employers recoup some of their earlier contributions and workers get bigger monthly pension checks.
State and local officials have little control over the global economy, but they can still do a lot to protect their taxpayers and employees from financial disasters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%)

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



121 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL | NOTEBOOK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Misery Goes Digital

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
In the evenings, the lowest and busiest level of Penn Station, the Long Island Rail Road concourse, becomes an earthly purgatory, where tens of thousands of souls wait quietly for deliverance to arrive, in the form of a train matched to a track number. 
That blessed information used to be delivered by simple but reliable TV monitors placed on the walls and pillars of New York's commuter dungeon, but now it arrives on bright new high-definition digital signs.
Commuting in HD! Anywhere else, this could have been good news. But the infernal force that rules Penn Station long ago decreed that life there only gets worse, never better.
So it is with the signs. They are vivid in the dingy yellow light. They lure the eye. But they are not so much departure signs as digital billboards, delivering ads, with track numbers on the side.
There are 25 of them on the L.I.R.R. concourse, in various shapes and sizes. More than half are exclusively for ads. The L.I.R.R. gets to use 11 signs for actual information -- but the displays that now show track numbers and times are modest in size, marginal in scale, and overwhelmed by the vast expanses of flashy images and ad copy all around them. Until a late-Friday redesign, which made the numbers slightly larger and more legible, the signs were so badly designed and hard to read as to be all but useless. They are slightly better now, but there is still no mistaking their primary purpose. It is not to tell you what you need to know but to sell you stuff.
At rush hour, people cluster around them, squinting. These people are the workers who keep the region's economy going, who deserve to be treated with dignity and respect, but to the L.I.R.R., they are merely captive eyeballs to be delivered to the customers it really cares about -- MasterCard, Guinness Black Lager, ''The Lion King,'' a brand of flavored bottled water and a Mexican budget airline called Interjet.
For this the railroad expects to pocket about $1 million a year. The president of the L.I.R.R. says the signs are helpful because they can be commandeered in emergencies and turned to good use. That may happen some awful day. But for the everyday, for now, tonight, tomorrow and forever, they will be delivering ads, 24/7.
Penn Station is already a feast of unhappiness for the eyes and ears. While waiting to learn your track number you may hear a guitarist named Mush playing the blues, or a teenager banging out the ''Love Story'' theme on an electric keyboard, or a wispy folk singer trilling in a mournful-bunny voice -- a vibrant mix of genres, all of it music to be miserable by.
To supplement the nausea, you will now be force-fed ads, digitally dazzling and impossible to tune out. The company that put up the signs, CBS Outdoor, boasts that advertisers will get their messages to 13,227,568 people a month. That's an impressive number. It's how many times riders have been betrayed by the L.I.R.R.'s deeper descent into (brightly illuminated) darkness.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (76%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); BOTTLED WATER (61%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (60%); AIRLINES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



122 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: For Obamacare to Work, Everyone Must Be In

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economics professor at the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

 BODY:
TWO beliefs continue to shape debate on Obamacare. First, pre-existing medical conditions shouldn't prevent people from obtaining affordable health insurance. And second, people who don't want health insurance shouldn't be forced by the government to purchase it.
These may seem to be reasonable positions. But they are incompatible. That's been shown by historical events, and it's now being strikingly confirmed by recent experience in the emerging Obamacare insurance exchanges. 
The crux of the matter is what economists call the adverse-selection problem. Uninsured people with pre-existing conditions often face tens or even hundreds of thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket medical costs annually. If insurers charged everyone the same rate, buying coverage would be far more attractive financially for people with chronic illnesses than for healthy people. And as healthy policyholders began dropping out of the insured pool, it would become increasingly composed of sick people, forcing insurers to raise their rates.
But higher rates make insurance even less attractive for healthy people, causing even more of them to drop out. Before long, coverage would become too expensive for almost everyone.
The adverse-selection problem explains why almost no countries leave health care provision to unregulated private insurance markets. It also predicts that requiring private insurance companies to charge the same rates to everyone will make it prohibitively expensive for most people to buy individual health insurance.
In the 1990s, lawmakers in New York State enacted just such a requirement, and the result was exactly as predicted. Rates for individual policies soared, making New Yorkers' insurance among the most expensive in the nation. Now, rates quoted under the Obamacare exchanges place individual policies within reach for millions of New Yorkers. New York City residents who had been paying $1,000 a month for individual policies in the earlier environment, for example, will now be able to purchase similar coverage on the Obamacare exchanges for slightly more than $300 a month.
What's changed? Insurers are able to offer more reasonable rates because the individual mandate -- the requirement in Obamacare that everyone buy insurance or face financial penalties -- is ensuring a high proportion of healthy people in the insured pool.
Early quotes for individual policies on the exchanges in several other states have exhibited a similar pattern. That's true in California, for example, and in Maryland, the latest state to report, rates now compare favorably with those in employer group plans.
Despite this experience, many in Congress want to repeal the individual mandate. Some, such as Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, have even threatened to shut down the government unless Obamacare is repealed entirely.
What alternatives are there? One way of avoiding the adverse-selection problem would be to re-emphasize traditional employer-provided health plans. Adverse selection is less serious under such plans, because the favorable tax treatment they receive requires insurers to cover all employees irrespective of pre-existing conditions. (Insurers can meet the requirement because most people employed in any company are reasonably healthy.)
But Obamacare was enacted precisely because employer plans fell short in many other ways. Millions of people, for example, are ineligible for such plans because they don't have jobs. And millions of others with chronic health problems are trapped in their current jobs, because leaving them would mean losing coverage.
Employer plans arose in the first place only because of a loophole created by wage controls during World War II. In an effort to curb the costs of the war effort, the government prohibited wage increases but, perhaps by oversight, did not prevent employers from offering additional fringe benefits as a way to combat labor shortages. Employer health plans proved an especially effective recruiting tool and had the additional advantage of not being taxed as implicit income.
BUT if universal access to health care is the goal, employer plans are not the solution. Because global competition has increased pressure to cut costs, the number of workers with such plans has been steadily declining for more than 40 years.
The challenge was to design a new system that could cover the more than 50 million Americans without health insurance. The Medicare-for-all proposal favored by many health economists was one approach that the administration considered.
But that approach would have required Americans to abandon their existing employer plans for something new and unfamiliar. In the light of survey evidence that most Americans were reasonably satisfied with their existing plans, it's hard to second-guess President Obama's conclusion that this step would have been politically infeasible.
The only remaining option was to supplement existing employer plans with regulated private insurance markets. This approach had been carried out successfully in Switzerland, and in Massachusetts under Mitt Romney when he was governor. Individual mandates were an essential ingredient of that strategy. And given that many people could not afford to purchase insurance, it was also necessary to include subsidies for low-income buyers.
Obamacare, in any event, is now the law of the land. Even its most ardent supporters concede that the program will need to be amended as experience accumulates. But evidence from the emerging insurance exchanges vindicates the basic policy choices underlying the legislation.
We must ask those who would repeal Obamacare how they propose to solve the adverse-selection problem. That problem is not an abstraction invented by economists to justify trampling individual liberties. As experience in most countries around the world has confirmed, it is a profound source of market failure that renders unregulated insurance markets a catastrophically ineffective way of providing access to health care.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CRAIG LAROTONDA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HISTORY (71%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (70%); CHRONIC DISEASES (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (64%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



123 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; DISPATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Life In A Toxic Country

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG. 
A correspondent in China for The New York Times.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- I RECENTLY found myself hauling a bag filled with 12 boxes of milk powder and a cardboard container with two sets of air filters through San Francisco International Airport. I was heading to my home in Beijing at the end of a work trip, bringing back what have become two of the most sought-after items among parents here, and which were desperately needed in my own household.
China is the world's second largest economy, but the enormous costs of its growth are becoming apparent. Residents of its boom cities and a growing number of rural regions question the safety of the air they breathe, the water they drink and the food they eat. It is as if they were living in the Chinese equivalent of the Chernobyl or Fukushima nuclear disaster areas.
Before this assignment, I spent three and a half years reporting in Iraq, where foreign correspondents talked endlessly of the variety of ways in which one could die -- car bombs, firefights, being abducted and then beheaded. I survived those threats, only now to find myself wondering: Is China doing irreparable harm to me and my family? 
The environmental hazards here are legion, and the consequences might not manifest themselves for years or even decades. The risks are magnified for young children. Expatriate workers confronted with the decision of whether to live in Beijing weigh these factors, perhaps more than at any time in recent decades. But for now, a correspondent's job in China is still rewarding, and so I am toughing it out a while longer. So is my wife, Tini, who has worked for more than a dozen years as a journalist in Asia and has studied Chinese. That means we are subjecting our 9-month-old daughter to the same risks that are striking fear into residents of cities across northern China, and grappling with the guilt of doing so.
Like them, we take precautions. Here in Beijing, high-tech air purifiers are as coveted as luxury sedans. Soon after I was posted to Beijing, in 2008, I set up a couple of European-made air purifiers used by previous correspondents. In early April, I took out one of the filters for the first time to check it: the layer of dust was as thick as moss on a forest floor. It nauseated me. I ordered two new sets of filters to be picked up in San Francisco; those products are much cheaper in the United States. My colleague Amy told me that during the Lunar New Year in February, a family friend brought over a 35-pound purifier from California for her husband, a Chinese-American who had been posted to the Beijing office of a large American technology company. Before getting the purifier, the husband had considered moving to Suzhou, a smaller city lined with canals, because he could no longer tolerate the pollution in Beijing.
Every morning, when I roll out of bed, I check an app on my cellphone that tells me the air quality index as measured by the United States Embassy, whose monitoring device is near my home. I want to see whether I need to turn on the purifiers and whether my wife and I can take our daughter outside.
Most days, she ends up housebound. Statistics released Wednesday by the Ministry of Environmental Protection revealed that air quality in Beijing was deemed unsafe for more than 60 percent of the days in the first half of 2013. The national average was also dismal: it failed to meet the safety standard in nearly half the days of the same six-month period. The environment minister, Zhou Shengxian, told People's Daily, the Communist Party mouthpiece, that ''China's air quality is grim, and the amount of pollution emissions far exceeds the environment's capacity.''
I want my daughter to grow up appreciating the outdoors -- sunsets and birdcalls and the smell of grass or the shape of clouds. That will be impossible if we live for many more years in Beijing. Even with my adult-size lungs, I limit my time outdoors. Though I ran on the banks of the Tigris River while in Baghdad and competed in two marathons before moving to China, I am hesitant about doing long-distance training for that kind of race here.
One thing I refuse to forgo is biking, even if it means greater exposure to hazardous air than commuting by car or subway. Given the horrendous traffic here -- itself a major contributor to the pollution -- I go to the office and restaurants and my courtyard home in Beijing's alleys on two wheels. This winter, I bought a British-made face mask after levels of fine particulate matter hit a record high in January in some areas -- 40 times the exposure limit recommended by the World Health Organization. Foreigners called it the ''airpocalypse,'' and a growing number are leaving China because of the smog or demanding hardship pay from their employers.
One American doctor here has procured a mask for his infant son. My mask of sleek black fabric and plastic knobs makes me look like an Asian Darth Vader. Better that, though, than losing years of my life.
THIS spring, new data released from the 2010 Global Burden of Disease Study, first published in The Lancet, revealed that China's outdoor pollution contributed to 1.2 million premature deaths in 2010, or 40 percent of the worldwide total. Another study, published by a prominent American science journal in July, found that northern Chinese lived five fewer years on average than their southern counterparts because of the widespread use of coal in the north.
Cancer rates are surging in China, and even the state news media are examining the relation between that and air pollution. Meanwhile, studies both in and outside of China have shown that children with prenatal exposure to high levels of air pollutants exhibit signs of slower mental development and of behavior disorders. Research from Los Angeles shows that children in polluted environments are also at risk for permanent lung damage.
In northern China, shades of gray distinguish one day from another. My wife and I sometimes choose our vacation destinations based on how much blue we can expect to see -- thus a recent trip to Tuscany and the Amalfi Coast. I will never take such skies for granted again. ''We still can't get over how blue the skies are here,'' the wife of an American diplomat told me over dinner in Georgetown more than half a year after the couple had moved back to Washington from Beijing.
Food safety is the other issue weighing on us. We have heard the stories of rat meat being passed off as lamb at hotpot restaurants, cooking oil being recycled and crops being grown in soil polluted by heavy metals or wastewater from factories. The food catastrophe that most frightened both Chinese and foreign parents was the milk scandal of 2008, in which six babies died and at least 300,000 children fell ill after drinking milk products tainted with melamine, a toxic chemical. Since then, many parents of newborns have gone to great lengths to bring into China foreign-made infant milk powder when it is needed to supplement breast-feeding.
Months after my trip back from San Francisco, my wife and I realized that our supply of formula was dwindling. We sent e-mails to friends we thought might be traveling soon to China, asking for volunteers to be ''mules.'' Our friend Alexa flew in from New York this week with two boxes of powder. We have two other friends who promise to bring more this summer.
I recently spoke to a woman in Beijing, Zhao Jun, who pays Chinese students and housewives living in Europe to mail her cans of Cow & Gate, a British brand. ''We're constantly worried, so we want to find a good brand from overseas with a long history,'' she said.
So widespread is the phenomenon of Chinese buying milk powder abroad that it has led to shortages in at least a half-dozen countries. Hong Kong has even cracked down on what customs officials call ''syndicates'' smuggling foreign-made powder to mainland China.
The anxieties do not end with milk. Our daughter has begun eating solids, so that means many more questions for us about how we source our food. Do we continue buying fruits and vegetables from the small shops in the alleys around our home? Do we buy from more expensive stores aimed at foreigners and wealthier Chinese? Do we buy from local organic farms? Last weekend, I went with a friend to visit a village home an hour's drive northeast of Beijing. He and his wife wanted to lease it as a weekend house, but I was more interested in gauging whether I could use the garden to grow our own vegetables. Some people I know here have done that.
''It's so difficult to protect yourself on the food issue,'' said Li Bo, a proponent of communal gardening and a board member of Friends of Nature, an environmental advocacy group. ''I never thought I would become a vegetarian. Then in 2011, I said enough of meat, after so many examples of wrongdoing in animal husbandry.''
Each day that passes in Beijing makes it harder to discern the fine line between paranoia and precaution. Six years ago, when I was back in my hometown Alexandria, Va., to pack for my move to China, my mother handed me several tubes of toothpaste. She had read stories that summer of toxic toothpaste made in China. I felt as if I was going off to college for my freshman year all over again. I put the tubes back in my parents' bathroom. When I go home these days, my mother still on occasion gives me toothpaste to bring back to Beijing, and I no longer hesitate to pack it in my bag.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A baby being given nebulizer therapy at Beijing Children's Hospital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LI WEN/XINHUA, VIA CORBIS) (SR1)
 The China Central Television headquarters building in Beijing, wreathed in haze. (PHOTOGRAPH LIU JIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (SR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (74%); ASIAN AMERICANS (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (72%); AIRPORTS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); SEDANS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (98%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); UKRAINE (78%); ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



124 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Mugabe Wins Again in Zimbabwe, Leaving Rival Greatly Weakened

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
HARARE, Zimbabwe -- President Robert Mugabe, who has led Zimbabwe since it threw off white rule in 1980, won another term on Saturday as the official results were announced for last week's hotly disputed election, defeating his main challenger with 61 percent of the vote and roaring back to secure his grip on power after having to share it for the past five years.
The Zimbabwe Election Commission announced the results moments after the challenger, Morgan Tsvangirai, denounced the voting, saying it had been rigged.
''This fraudulent and stolen election has plunged Zimbabwe into a constitutional, political and economic crisis,'' Mr. Tsvangirai, who won 33 percent of the vote, said in a news conference at his house. He demanded that a new election be held so that Zimbabweans could ''freely and fairly elect a government of their choice'' -- a step that a spokesman for Mr. Mugabe's party, ZANU-PF, quickly rejected. 
Secretary of State John Kerry also cast doubt on the validity of the election in a statement on Saturday. ''In light of substantial electoral irregularities reported by domestic and regional observers, the United States does not believe that the results announced today represent a credible expression of the will of the Zimbabwean people,'' Mr. Kerry said.
But regional election observers suggested that any flaws were not serious enough to invalidate the voting.
The victory was a stunning comeback for Mr. Mugabe. After the disputed 2008 election, in which he won fewer votes than Mr. Tsvangirai did, he was forced into forming a unity government. This time, Mr. Mugabe's party won more than two-thirds of the seats in Parliament, giving it a supermajority that can make changes to the country's Constitution without votes from other parties.
The election was also a vivid illustration of how Mr. Tsvangirai's Movement for Democratic Change, or M.D.C., has been outmaneuvered and outfoxed at every turn by Mr. Mugabe, 89, a wily survivor who endured colonial rule, a brutal guerrilla war and multiple attempts to unseat him during his 33 years as Zimbabwe's leader.
''The party has been to blame for ZANU's success across the board,'' said Stephen Chan, a professor at SOAS, the School of Oriental and African Studies at the University of London, who has written a biography of Mr. Mugabe. After the 2008 vote, the M.D.C. agreed to work with Mr. Mugabe's party, but did not become an equal partner.
''What they got was a compromise deal that was almost worse than being in opposition,'' Mr. Chan said.
One of the party's biggest missteps came in June, after Mr. Mugabe unilaterally declared that an election must be held by the end of July, just six weeks later, usurping Parliament. The M.D.C.'s leaders were prepared to tell the heads of state who had gathered for the meeting of the Southern African Development Community, a regional trade bloc, that the party would boycott the election.
But the regional leaders at the meeting persuaded Mr. Mugabe to agree to ask the country's constitutional court for a two-week extension, and his main challenger for the presidency, Mr. Tsvangirai, agreed to go ahead with the election, according to Douglas Mwonzora, the M.D.C.'s spokesman.
The courts refused to extend the deadline, and a messy, rushed election was held on Wednesday.
''We didn't expect the Zimbabwean courts and Mr. Mugabe to go against the resolution of S.A.D.C.,'' Mr. Mwonzora said.
It would turn out to be just one of a long list of miscalculations that have left the M.D.C., the most credible threat to Mr. Mugabe's long rule, with not quite a third of the seats in Parliament and few options to contest the election results.
Mr. Tsvangirai plans to go to court, but the higher courts in Zimbabwe are filled with Mr. Mugabe's loyal appointees.
The election results were a far cry from the 2008 vote, in which neither man won a majority. Mr. Tsvangirai then refused to participate in a runoff because of attacks that had killed hundreds of his supporters.
The two men formed an uneasy unity government after the regional trade bloc, S.A.D.C., intervened. That government, which left Mr. Mugabe in place as president and installed Mr. Tsvangirai as prime minister, was supposed to last only 18 months.
Instead it stretched on for nearly five years, during which time the economy stabilized with the introduction of the United States dollar as the national currency, and a new Constitution was written and passed in a referendum.
But major overhauls of the armed forces and the police were left undone, and the M.D.C.'s leaders were tarnished by allegations of corruption and an abiding perception, fairly or not, that they had grown comfortable with the trappings of power.
Top ZANU-PF officials crowed over the size of their victory, dismissing the challenger's claims that the vote was rigged.
''They are a confused lot,'' said Saviour Kasukuwere, a senior ZANU-PF minister, of the challengers. ''They are not strategic. They are just a bunch of chancers. Their mantra was 'Mugabe must go.' But what else did they offer the people?''
The voting last week was peaceful, but plagued with problems. The parties did not get a copy of the voters' roll until the day before the vote, raising fears of fraud. Earlier versions had vastly underrepresented young urban voters, a major blow to the M.D.C., whose base is among young city dwellers.
Election observers also noted that far too many extra ballots had been printed and that too many voters had been reported as needing assistance. Mr. Tsvangirai said that at one constituency where 17,000 people had voted, 10,000 had been assisted, a high rate of people needing help in a country with one of Africa's highest literacy rates.
Almost twice as many people voted in this election as in 2008, and according to the figures released by the election commission, Mr. Mugabe benefited most from the swell of new voters. His total number of votes doubled, while Mr. Tsvangirai's level of support remained the same.
Job Sikala, a leader of one of the breakaway factions of the M.D.C. that boycotted the vote, said Mr. Tsvangirai and his allies had been nave to expect that the election would be fair.
''We noticed that the political playing field was tilted on behalf of ZANU-PF,'' Mr. Sikala said. ''We knew in advance what the result would be.''
Indeed, by agreeing to enter into a power-sharing government after the 2008 election, which was marred by political violence, the M.D.C. helped rescue ZANU-PF from its own excesses, Mr. Sikala said, echoing the views of many analysts.
''The day they joined the inclusive government they resuscitated a decomposing, dead donkey,'' Mr. Sikala said. ''They gave ZANU time and legitimacy to regroup, re-energize and reorganize. Now they are back on top, and Tsvangirai is finished.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Robert Mugabe, center, waited Wednesday to cast his ballot at a school in Harare. He won with 61 percent of the vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON UFUMELI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); ELECTION MONITORING (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (93%) ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



125 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CRIME; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Bring Up the Bodies

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO

 BODY:
'Tis the night before Christmas and all through the house not a creature is stirring in John Dufresne's ghoulishly funny crime novel, NO REGRETS, COYOTE (Norton, $25.95). That's because everyone in the Halliday house -- father, mother and three little kiddies in pajamas -- is dead, shot in what appears to be a case of parental murder-suicide. But Wylie (Coyote) Melville, a therapist who serves as a ''volunteer forensic consultant'' for the Everglades County Police Department, doesn't buy that explanation. Although he's only acting on intuition, Wylie has proved to be a gifted mind reader (''I just look, I stare, I gaze, and I pay attention to what I see,'' he modestly explains), so people tend to put stock in his hunches. 
Wylie is also one of those quirky individuals who attract similarly eccentric people -- like the affable squatter who camps out in his backyard and is eventually given the run of the house. This magnetic attraction extends to Wylie's client list, which includes oddballs like Wayne Vanderhyde, who breaks into vacant homes (of which there are plenty in this real-estate graveyard) and leaves love notes for some future resident to find, and Dermid Reardon, whose overwhelming desire is to be an amputee. (''We don't all crave to be symmetrical,'' a woman friend of Wylie's observes.)
The most endearing of Wylie's many acquaintances is Bay Lettique, an expert at close-up sleight-of-hand magic tricks whose specialty is costuming himself as a gullible tourist (in Bermuda shorts, socks with sandals and a silly-looking fanny pack) and cleaning up at the poker table. But he's also something of a wizard, with an uncanny ability to materialize whenever Wylie needs help -- even in Alaska, just one of the unlikely places this loose-limbed narrative takes him.
Following the loopy plot, with its cartoonish cast of Russian hit men, crooked lawyers and homicidal cops, is actually part of the entertainment, although a visit to Santa's workshop at the North Pole would seem only slightly less incredible than that surreal trip to Fairbanks. Yet for all his excesses, Dufresne is an original talent. His humor is frightfully dark, but it's also quite dazzling -- even by the exacting standards of South Florida crime fiction.
Inspector Jack Carrigan, the troubled protagonist of Stav Sherez's masterfully executed British police procedural, A DARK REDEMPTION (Europa Editions, paper, $17), is adamant on one point: ''We don't talk about those days. We don't talk about Africa.'' But Carrigan can't forget the violent turn his life took when he and two college friends went there on a lark and were captured by rebel fighters. East Africa also holds the key to the grisly murder of Grace Okello, a Ugandan student who was writing her graduate thesis on the political use of terror and torture in African revolutionary movements.
Carrigan is a complex character, someone well worth meeting again. But Sherez is too purposeful a writer to fall into the tired convention of making everything depend on his hero. His narrative covers a number of hot-button issues, from political unrest in immigrant communities to government meddling in police cases. It's no surprise that the streets of London turn out to be just as treacherous as the wilds of Africa.
Nobody knows the woods of Maine like the rugged individuals who eke out a living by hunting, fishing and cutting timber. And nobody knows the region's inhabitants like Mike Bowditch, the young game warden in Paul Doiron's manly mysteries set in this ''desolate outland where game wardens were hated and oxycodone abuse was epidemic.'' MASSACRE POND (Minotaur, $24.99) presents Bowditch with ''the worst wildlife crime in Maine history'' when 10 moose are slaughtered on the property of a philanthropist who intends to turn her 100,000 acres of prime land into a national park. The locals making a living from this ancient forest are no picturesque yokels: along with the serious woodsmen there are poachers, gun-traffickers and even the occasional pedophile -- none of them inclined to yield their ground gracefully. Doiron makes shrewd use of the moose murders to address a larger issue: the standoff between avid environmentalists and the residents of an economically depressed region faced with losing their livelihood.
One of the last places on earth where a crack newspaper reporter can still make a living is in the pages of detective fiction. Willie Black, who covers the crime beat for a last-gasp city daily in Richmond, Va., has made it through budget cuts, personnel blood baths and the demands of new technology. (''They want us to blog every day, like flossing.'') But he nearly loses his job -- and his life -- in Howard Owen's latest mystery, THE PHILADELPHIA QUARRY (Permanent Press, $28), when he comes to the defense of a black man named Richard Slade, who was locked up at the age of 17, falsely convicted of raping a 16-year-old white girl. Alicia Parker Simpson has had to live with a bad conscience for the 27 years this innocent man spent in prison, but when she's shot to death just days after Slade is released on DNA evidence the whole town rushes to judgment. Everyone, that is, except Willie, who takes up the cause of proving Slade's innocence. Now in his mid-50s, Willie is too long in the tooth to play the role of brash young reporter, but he's a decent guy and a terrific investigator, and in the end he restores some dignity to ''a profession that's becoming as relevant as the Pony Express.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); MURDER (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); POLICE FORCES (75%); LAWYERS (74%); FORENSICS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); SUICIDE (71%); CEMETERIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (52%) ALASKA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



126 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Rise and Fall

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. KAPLAN. 
Robert D. Kaplan is the chief geopolitical analyst for Stratfor, a private global intelligence firm. His latest book is ''The Revenge of Geography.''

 BODY:
BALANCEThe Economics of Great Powers From Ancient Rome to Modern America
By Glenn Hubbard and Tim Kane351 pp. Simon & Schuster. $28.
Of all the proponents of human agency against the constraints of geography, culture and historical experience, economists are the most incisive. They obey scientific rigor rather than mere civilizational tendencies. And while the laws of economics yield a determinism all their own, adherence to such laws and the limits they impose, Glenn Hubbard and Tim Kane suggest, will allow any state or people to avoid tragic outcomes, regardless of geographical or other limitations.
''There is no German physics distinct from French physics, just as there is no Chinese economics that will make its rise fundamentally different from those of Russia and Japan,'' they declare. ''A large, poor country growing quickly will soon approach the productivity frontier.'' Thus China, despite sustained growth, urgently requires institutional reform, even as the threat facing America originates not from China or any other foreign ''bogeyman,'' but ''from within.'' The authors see America's decline as real, continuing and yet reversible, provided American leaders apply human agency, not to bend timeless principles of economic behavior but to learn from them. 
In ''Balance: The Economics of Great Powers From Ancient Rome to Modern America,'' Hubbard, the dean of Columbia Business School, and Kane, chief economist of the Hudson Institute, see the history of empires -- Roman, Chinese, Spanish, Turkish, Japanese, British and American -- not as a sumptuous narrative of individual passions, achievements, mistakes and intrigues, not even as an informative chronicle of trade routes and natural resources, but as a dry record of political-economic blunders. Rome did not perish from too many territorial conquests -- or, contra Edward Gibbon, from the triumph of Christianity -- but, Hubbard and Kane say, from the debasement of its coinage, the nationalization of the Mediterranean grain trade and the growth and expansion of an inflexible bureaucracy. Imperial Spain foundered on land confiscations, anti-growth property rights and economic incentives that encouraged ''unproductive careers'' like soldiering and the priesthood (not to mention the expulsion of hundreds of thousands of commercially innovative Jews). Ottoman Turkey's demise was rooted in an overly centralized government and a rent-seeking bureaucratic class. And if only Britain had expanded its concept of full citizenship to encompass overseas subjects, they write, then the American Revolution might not have happened and a British world empire might have gone on and on.
Covering so much history in so relatively few pages, the authors employ a narrative shorthand that periodically betrays not a mastery of subject but a lack of depth. For example, Diocletian did not exactly establish order in the Roman Empire ''in the way that Stalin established order in the Soviet Union,'' as Hubbard and Kane claim. Rather, Diocletian partially ceded power by creating a decentralized, tetrarchic structure and then set a precedent by voluntarily abdicating the throne several years before his death. Gibbon's assault on Christianity in his ''Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,'' rather than having been ''largely debunked'' as they claim, remains the essential thesis on the subject, seething as it is with a delicious irony and a full-bodied, philosophical evocation of how modernity emerged from the classical past. If anyone has successfully challenged Gibbon recently, it is not some economist but the Princeton historian Peter Brown, with his concept of late antiquity as an intermingling of both paganism and monotheism.
While the authors frequently refer to books by like-minded contemporary economists like Daron Acemoglu and Carmen Reinhart, Fernand Braudel's landmark, two-volume work on the geography, economics and culture of the Spanish Empire, ''The Mediterranean and the Mediterranean World in the Age of Philip II,'' is neither in the text nor the endnotes of their chapter on Spain, nor in the bibliography. Hubbard and Kane leave unmentioned that the end of medieval Chinese sea power, upon which they dwell, owed much to the mid-15th-century defeat of a vast Ming army at Tumu by Mongol forces, which helped quicken the decline from which the dynasty never recovered. This lapse undermines their assertion that the yearning for territorial conquest is, in fact, not a cause of imperial collapse.
Indeed, a central motive of the book is to challenge the Yale historian Paul Kennedy's theory of ''imperial overstretch'' as a source of superpower decline, which he made in his 1987 best seller, ''The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers: Economic Change and Military Conflict From 1500 to 2000.'' It is a polite challenge, since Hubbard and Kane acknowledge the continued scholarly impact of Kennedy's work. But they reject his idea that military adventures create huge liabilities, and seek to show that it is not ''barbarians at the gates,'' but ''self-inflicted economic imbalance'' that sinks empires.
Consequently, in their view, a reduction in military budgets would not necessarily translate into higher growth rates, as the examples of Britain and the United States in the 1970s demonstrate. In any case, despite George W. Bush's war on terror, military spending, they write, went down from 10 percent of G.D.P. in the 1950s to around 4 percent in the past decade. The cumulative cost of Bush's wars relative to the G.D.P. was actually less than a third that of World War II. But contemporary entitlement spending is ''five to 10 times larger.''
Yet because the authors assail Kennedy's thesis mainly through numbers, they miss a larger, more subtle point: that the cost of foreign military adventures saps a nation's energies, and particularly the intellectual energy of its leaders, in critical ways. Even top decision makers have only a limited amount of time in a day, and if they are spending that time conducting a war, they may be neglecting issues like tax and entitlement reform. Administrations run on big themes, leading to a diminution in the thinking on other issues that do not make the list. Iraq and Afghanistan were basically what almost a decade of governance in Washington was about. President Obama knows that if he intervenes on a major scale in Syria, even if he is successful, the war will be what determines his daily schedule for the remainder of his second term. Thus Kennedy's theory is correct in ways that economists' charts cannot reveal.
To take the authors at their word, Obama should be concentrating less on Syria and more on entitlement reform. After all, they say, whereas previous debt spikes were tied to specific wars, the current debt crisis has been building for decades. The failure to deal with it is linked to what they call ''empty partisanship,'' which they describe as the partisanship of entrenched political interests rather than authentic, philosophical principles. This, in turn, is tied to our calcified, two-party system. Hubbard and Kane would like to see a third, fourth, maybe even a fifth party, including a ''radical'' faction like the abolitionists of 1860. They also want more federalism, limited central government and a return to ''honest budgeting.'' Such measures, they insist, constitute the real riposte to declinism.
Though Hubbard and Kane are clearly not ready to blame the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan for America's imperial-like troubles, they are, nevertheless, part of a growing group of experts, most notably Richard Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations, who believe -- without being isolationists -- that the future of American power will be decided at home, not abroad.
It is true that overseas dangers have been overrated. China and Europe face deep structural problems to their economies and political arrangements that dwarf those of America. Chaos in the Middle East and a potential nuclear Iran present secondary, rather than primary, threats to the United States. Russia edges toward demographic collapse, even as its energy sector faces challenges from natural gas discoveries elsewhere. Meanwhile, shale gas deposits, coupled with Canadian oil, could make the United States energy independent within North America. So even if Hubbard and Kane's recitation of imperial history is one-dimensional, their overall focus on domestic issues is dead-on.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RAYMOND BIESINGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); CLASSICS (90%); PROPERTY LAW (76%); NATIONALIZATION (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); WRITERS (72%); RELIGION (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (62%); CITIZENSHIP (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HUDSON INSTITUTE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%); ITALY (91%); TURKEY (90%); JAPAN (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); SPAIN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



127 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: High Expectations

BYLINE: By JUSTIN PORTER

 BODY:
Travis Reginal and Justin Porter were friends back in Jackson, Miss. They attended William B. Murrah High School, which is 97 percent African-American and 67 percent low income. Murrah is no Ivy feeder. Low-income students rarely apply to the nation's best colleges. But Mr. Porter just completed a first year at Harvard, Mr. Reginal at Yale. Below, Mr. Porter writes about his journey. Click here to read Mr. Reginal's essay.
JUST as the glossy brochure promised, from the moment I touched foot on the Harvard campus last fall, I was exposed to an exhilarating and illuminating new world.
I have discussed the rise of China with Larry Summers over a few slices of pizza, taken a genetics course taught by one of People magazine's sexiest men alive (shoutout to Kevin Eggan), and sat in the front row as one of my favorite writers, Atul Gawande, gave an astonishing talk on the difference between coaching and teaching. 
Still, my freshman year was probably one of the most troubling of my life.
I was born and raised 1,500 miles away, in a small apartment in Jackson, Miss. For my entire life, it has mainly been just my mother and me. I have a loving father, but he and my mother broke off their engagement shortly after my birth, and since he worked odd hours as a bus driver, I rarely saw him when I was growing up.
I am an only child, so my mother overpowered me with her love. For someone who sees so much beauty in the world, she worked awfully hard to protect me from it. Television, rap music, even basketball with the kids on the block were beyond consideration. It left me a bit resentful as a teenager, but I grew to appreciate her enormous sacrifices -- walking me to the library every afternoon, laboring at multiple jobs to keep food on the table, telling me stories late into the night.
When I announced the summer before my senior year of high school that I had decided to apply to a school in New England, I noticed a hint of hesitation before a warm smile enveloped her face. I pretended not to see, but I was never able to forget it. I tried to articulate my reasons for wanting to leave -- to prove I was smart enough, fear of taking the path of least resistance, the classic teenage feeling of being trapped -- but the words just made me sound shallow and ungrateful.
Nonetheless, I began to buckle down on the college applications -- an early one for Harvard and roughly a dozen others standing by. I knew the odds of getting into Harvard were not in my favor, and my high school couldn't offer much because our senior counselor was responsible for hundreds of students. So I read tons of college preparation books. If there was one lesson I learned from them, it was that nothing kills a winning application faster than a trite ''Allow me to tell you about the time I won the town race'' essay. I wrote about the growing tension I noticed between the sciences and the humanities. And months in advance, I approached my incredible yet overworked teachers with a smile and recommendation requests, already placed in stamped envelopes.
You might consider me a classic overachiever, minus the money for a college consultant. I had taken every Advanced Placement class I could fit into my schedule -- 9 of the 12 Murrah offers. I had participated in science competitions at state and national levels. I had the requisite leadership roles: editor of my high school newspaper and president of its chapter of the National Honor Society. I had started a debate team with some of my closest friends, and spent my free time tutoring elementary and middle school children in mathematics and English.
To my delight, I was notified of my acceptance into Harvard College on Dec. 15, 2011, three days before my birthday. That night, after all of the celebratory texts and hugs, I sat in my room and began to cry uncontrollably.
I felt trapped between the two worlds in front of me. One held seemingly unlimited opportunity -- full scholarship, career advancement, travel possibilities. But what would I sacrifice in exchange? My mother and I have never been on firm financial ground, and that was not going to magically change. It suddenly hit me why I was so troubled by her hesitant look: it was the same look she gave me the first time we were evicted from our home. What would happen to her if I left? When she was laid off from her job a few weeks later, my fears multiplied.
The guilt was invasive; beneath my smile, shame dominated my thoughts. I spent the last few weeks of my senior year worried sick -- that if I left she would not have enough to eat, a safe place to live, loving company to listen to her stories. I decided to defer my acceptance.
She would hear nothing of it. ''Your acceptance into Harvard is one of the shining accomplishments of my life,'' she said, ''and I'll be damned if I see you give it away.''
I did not.
Earlier this year, I read an article about the failure of elite colleges to attract poor students: a Stanford study had found that only 34 percent of top students in the lowest income level had attended one of the country's 238 most selective colleges.
I do not believe that increasing financial aid packages and creating glossy brochures alone will reverse this trend. The true forces that are keeping us away from elite colleges are cultural: the fear of entering an alien environment, the guilt of leaving loved ones alone to deal with increasing economic pressure, the impulse to work to support oneself and one's family. I found myself distracted even while doing problem sets, questioning my role at this weird place. I began to think, ''Who am I, anyway, to think I belong at Harvard, the alma mater of the Bushes, the Kennedys and the Romneys? Maybe I should have stayed in Mississippi where I belonged.''
Then there were the existential questions: why it all matters, the recurring evaluations of my dreams and underlying motivations (did I really want to be a doctor?), even considerations of the problematic socioeconomic structure I was trapped in. (Harvard students commonly spend the summer after freshman year traveling abroad. I passed up an internship in Greece. It was paid, but I didn't think I could handle the travel costs.)
Over the course of this year, I have changed in ways I never anticipated. As I watch my peers -- an eclectic collection of literary enthusiasts, science geniuses, musical virtuosos and mathematics prodigies -- humbly strive for excellence in their respective fields, I feel inspired, slightly inadequate and hopeful for the future.
I think I know now why my mother let me go. Harvard has forced me to grow and take a candid look at the world, and at myself.
Suffice it to say, I would not trade the experience for anything.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); WRITERS (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); BASKETBALL (67%); RAP MUSIC (50%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (90%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



128 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; POP QUIZ; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: What Would You Ask?

 BODY:
The College Board has announced plans for a fundamental redesign of the SAT, to be introduced in 2015. What should be on it? We invited educators to dream up a question they would like to see. Turn to the answers for an explanation of their choices.
ERIC J. FURDA, dean of admissions, and JAYSON WEINGARTEN, admissions counselor, University of Pennsylvania
1. Based on the map at left, which of these directions would get you from the elementary school to the post office?
a. Head left onto Fern, then right on Acorn, then a slight right on Elm, followed by a right on Drury. 
b. Turn right onto Fern, then right onto Clark, then northwest onto Elm.
c. Head north on Fern, then east on Acorn, then northwest on Elm, followed by a right on Drury.
d. Head right onto Fern, then left on Drury.
e. Head left onto Fern, then west onto Drury.
STEVEN PINKER, professor of psychology, Harvard
2. Psychologists love to tell a joke about an influential school in 20th-century psychology. Let's see if you can figure it out. Which of the following makes sense as a joke?
a. What do behaviorists say after they make love? ''It was good for you; how was it for me?''
b. What do behaviorists say after they make love? ''It was good for me; how was it for you?''
c. What do Freudians say after they make love? ''It was good for you; how was it for me?''
d. What do Freudians say after they make love? ''It was good for me; how was it for you?
HOWARD GARDNER, professor of education, Harvard
3. Choose a well-publicized event of the past year. Drawing on history or literature, create a grid of the ways the event is similar to, and different from, a precedent. Below is a sample.
Event 2013: Edward J. Snowden supplies documents to press, showing that National Security Agency is tracking private phone and e-mail records.
Precedent 1971: Daniel Ellsberg supplies Pentagon Papers to press, showing that public had been misled over Vietnam War.
Similarities: Solitary individuals leak covert information to correct perceived miscarriage of justice; some see them as traitors.
Differences: Ellsberg: highly educated; member of foreign policy establishment; remains in country. Snowden: high school dropout; brief stint with C.I.A. and N.S.A.; flees country.
N. GREGORY MANKIW, professor and chairman of economics department, Harvard
4. Economics is best defined as the study of:
a. how to run a business most profitably.
b. how to predict inflation, unemployment and stock prices.
c. how society manages its scarce resources.
d. how the government can stop the harm that comes from unchecked self-interest.
DAVID M. BRESSOUD, professor of mathematics, Macalester College; former president, Mathematical Association of America
5. The doctor gives you a blood test for a relatively rare disease that strikes 0.1% of people like you. The test is accurate 99% of the time, for those who have the disease and those who do not. Your test comes back positive. What is the probability you actually have the disease?
a. At least 99%.
b. More than 90% but less than 99%.
c. Between 10% and 90%.
d. Less than 10% but at least 1%.
e. At most 1%.
BILLY COLLINS, professor of English, Lehman College, CUNY; former poet laureate of the United States
6. Read this poem by A. E. Housman carefully, paying attention to the arithmetic in the second stanza.
Loveliest of Trees
Loveliest of trees, the cherry now
Is hung with bloom along the bough,
And stands about the woodland ride
Wearing white for Eastertide.
Now, of my threescore years and ten,
Twenty will not come again,
And take from seventy springs a score,
It only leaves me fifty more.
And since to look at things in bloom
Fifty springs are little room,
About the woodlands I will go
To see the cherry hung with snow.
a. How old is the speaker?
b. How long does he expect to live?
CAROL JAGO, English teacher, Santa Monica High School; former president, National Council of Teachers of English
7. What is the setting of ''The Eagle,'' by Alfred, Lord Tennyson? Why is the setting important to the poem's meaning?
The Eagle
He clasps the crag with crooked hands;
Close to the sun in lonely lands,
Ring'd with the azure world, he stands.
The wrinkled sea beneath him crawls;
He watches from his mountain walls,
And like a thunderbolt he falls.
BRUCE ALBERTS, professor emeritus, biochemistry and biophysics, University of California, San Francisco; former editor in chief, Science magazine
8. ''The society of scientists is simple because it has a directing purpose: to explore the truth. Nevertheless, it has to solve the problem of every society, which is to find a compromise between'' the individual and the group. ''It must encourage the single scientist to be independent, and the body of scientists to be tolerant. From these basic conditions, which form the prime values, there follows step by step a range of values: dissent, freedom of thought and speech, justice, honor, human dignity and self respect.'' -- Jacob Bronowski, ''Science and Human Values,'' 1956
Think carefully about the above excerpt. Which of the following extrapolations are true? Which are false?
a. A scientist must be an independent thinker free to disagree with the status quo, and the body of scientists must be tolerant of challenges.
b. Most challenges to the status quo will change what scientists believe about the world.
c. Successful scientists are individualists who pay little attention to what other scientists have discovered.
d. New findings require independent testing before being accepted as ''the truth.'' A scientist must therefore report results openly so they can be readily repeated, challenged and built upon.
JAMES LIPTON, host, Bravo's ''Inside the Actors Studio''; founding dean, Actors Studio Drama School of Pace University
9. In the lexicon of the Stanislavski system, the actor's objective is:
a. to get famous.
b. to get rich.
c. to get a job for chrissake!
d. to do actively and with justification what the character is trying to accomplish in any scene or moment.
MILTON GLASER, graphic designer and acting board chairman, School of Visual Arts
10. Pick one:
a. You do extraordinary work much admired by your professional colleagues, but earn a very poor living.
b. You do pedestrian, professional-level work and earn an enormous amount of money doing it.
SETH ALLEN, dean of admissions and financial aid, Pomona College
11. What do you believe is the purpose of your education?
a. To learn a certain set of knowledge.
b. To qualify for an appropriate job.
c. To develop the ability to ask the right questions.
d. All of the above.
e. None of the above.
QUESTION OPTIONAL
ROBERT SCHAEFFER, public education director, FairTest
12. True or false? All college-bound students must take either the SAT or the ACT.
GO TO ANSWERS

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY WESLEY BEDROSIAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); MATHEMATICS (74%); LITERATURE (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); INFLATION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EVENT MARKETING (63%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



129 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; STRATEGY | R.O.I.; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Following the Money

BYLINE: By SAMANTHA STAINBURN

 BODY:
FOR 18-year-old consumers, financial decisions escalate exponentially. Tall latte or a grande splurge? Lucky Brand or True Religion? State U. or N.Y.U.? Statistics or psych or maybe social work?
It's not hard for a student today, facing an average single-year college bill of $21,657, to unwittingly take on a life-altering amount of debt. Pick a college or field that doesn't set you up for a job that's lucrative enough to pay back loans and you could spend years just scraping by.
To help students make informed decisions about whether it's worth paying a premium for a certain college or degree, advocates and entrepreneurs have created online tools to compare graduates' income.
''In the last few years, there's been a fairly strong push to have colleges report to students when they pick a major what the labor market performance has been,'' said Anthony P. Carnevale, director of the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce. ''Do graduates get a job in their field, earn enough money to pay their loans?'' 
Most colleges don't have the research staff, or desire, to chase down graduates and find out what they're making. But states have been collecting income data for years, and some -- Virginia, Maryland, Nevada and Florida -- have passed laws requiring their education departments to compile and release it, or post it voluntarily. Other free sites help students calculate R.O.I., or return on investment: the cost of attending set against future earnings.
Unfortunately, not one of these tools is based on complete or particularly good data. And no site allows students to do what most probably want to do: pick a handful of colleges across the country and compare earnings achieved by graduates in various majors.
The institution most obviously suited to reporting what students earn after college is the federal government. The United States Department of Education already collects graduation data from all states, and the Internal Revenue Service tracks earnings. But the law prevents matching individuals' transcript information to employment data. A bill introduced in the Senate, the Student Right to Know Before You Go Act, is seeking to overturn that ban. It wants the government to publish earnings and employment metrics sorted by major, degree, college and state up to 15 years after graduation.
While the predictive value of currently available salary tools is limited, they can reveal patterns that might inspire students to consider different choices. Earnings data show that ''two-year technical degrees from community colleges can be incredibly valuable,'' said Mark Schneider, president of College Measures, which developed a tool, with funds from the Lumina Foundation, that some states are using to compare incomes. For example, Texas students with two-year technical degrees have average first-year median earnings of about $50,000 -- $11,000 more than graduates with bachelor's degrees. In Colorado, students with associate degrees in applied science earn a starting salary almost $7,000 more, on average, than that of graduates with B.A.'s.''So if you're on the fence about getting a bachelor's degree,'' Mr. Schneider said, ''these technical degrees are something you should explore.''
Another takeaway: ''You want to go to the flagship public college because it has a better football team,'' Mr. Schneider said. ''But in every state we've worked in, many students graduating from the regional campuses end up just as well off. Sometimes they even beat them.'' Health profession majors at the University of Tennessee's flagship in Knoxville, for example, fall behind those at the Martin campus, $46,770 to $58,592.
Of course, there are factors to consider besides earnings when picking a career or college. But middle- and low-income students who can't afford to make mistakes, and students considering low-paying professions like social work or art, may want to figure in R.O.I. ''The qualitative benefits of college, such as how fun the dorm life is, are temporary,'' said Katie Bardaro, lead economist for PayScale, a Web site that reports compensation. ''Your after-graduation earnings are permanent.''
PAYSCALE
At PayScale.com, students can compare earnings for graduates of 1,058 colleges and universities as well as national median starting and midcareer salaries for 130 majors. Who knew: The starting salary in nursing beats business $54,100 to $41,400. More useful, the gap narrows midcareer: $70,200 to $70,000. Data can be sorted by region or type of school, including public, private or, as defined by the Princeton Review, party school. (Lowest-paid partiers come from the University of Mississippi; highest from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.) And using its own algorithm, PayScale calculates return on investment for colleges and popular majors. It may surprise that in-state engineering majors from George Mason University enjoy a higher R.O.I. over 30 years ($1,937,000) than engineers do from M.I.T. ($1,794,000). PayScale also publishes an attention-grabbing list of schools offering the worst returns.
Strengths: PayScale provides median midcareer salaries (10 years plus), which is a more realistic measure of how much liberal arts degrees pay off, since degree holders often work at coffee shops in the early years.
Weaknesses: Earnings are self-reported. Because the compensation survey is completed by PayScale.com visitors (1.5 million did so last year), results are biased toward workers who are researching salaries online -- younger, white collar and not yet running Fortune 500 companies. The reports also exclude graduates who went on for an advanced degree and who attended college part time.
STATE BY STATE
Arkansas, Tennessee, Virginia, Colorado and Texas post first-year earnings for graduates of all their two- and four-year public institutions on CollegeMeasures.org. Virginia and Colorado also track private colleges. A math geek who wants to study and work in Virginia can home in on average earnings for computer science majors at the University of Virginia ($59,739), William & Mary ($56,809) and Virginia Polytechnic Institute ($54,917), or compare U.Va.'s computer science majors to its math majors ($45,777) and mechanical engineers ($50,917). Or zoom out to see which schools graduate the highest earners in general; in Virginia, it's Jefferson College of Health Sciences followed by University of Richmond.
Strengths: Statistics are based on state education and employment records, so the experience of every single public-school graduate who works in the state is factored in. Earnings are available for just about every degree and certificate program in each state.
Weaknesses: Nothing from outside the state, including graduates who take jobs elsewhere, is calculated in. Neither are the self-employed.
COLLEGE REALITY CHECK
Produced by The Chronicle of Higher Education with money from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, CollegeRealityCheck.com allows students to compare earnings, monthly payments on student loans, graduation rates and average net price for up to five colleges at a time.
Strengths: There's a lot of guidance on what terms like net price actually mean and how to interpret different types of data, along with links to relevant sites and articles. A stylish interface generates graphics like what a graduate's monthly debt payments might look like over 10 years compared with monthly pay depending on the school attended.
Weaknesses: Earnings figures come from PayScale (see above). There's no information at all on specific programs.
HOW TO LOOK AT ALL THE DATA
Focus on figures for different majors rather than different colleges, said Anthony P. Carnevale, director of Georgetown's Center on Education and the Workforce. ''What really matters in your career is much less the college and much more the major. If you go to Harvard and become a schoolteacher, you won't make more than other schoolteachers.''
Look at the sample size on which an average or median salary is based, said James Leipold, executive director of the National Association for Law Placement, which has reported on lawyers' salaries for decades. ''The bigger the number, the better the data.''
Don't assume you'll end up in the top half of the earnings median; half the population is below it. Students ''always sort themselves to the high side,'' Mr. Leipold said. ''That's why they borrow more than they can afford. There's such optimism about success.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TAX AUTHORITIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



130 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Can Suburbs Help Cities?

 BODY:
Readers discuss taking a regional approach to reviving Detroit.
To the Editor:
A fact sometimes ignored in discussions of Detroit's bankruptcy filing is that its metropolitan area, which officially includes three neighboring counties and unofficially parts of several more, has not shared the city's distress. White flight, beginning in the early 1950s and accelerating thereafter, relocated much of the city's tax base and economic vitality into the surrounding suburbs and exurbs.
The economic, social, political and demographic composition of southeastern Michigan looks different when the entire region is brought into view. In fact, the metropolitan area's population increased from 1950 to 2010. And the region remains a major location for auto manufacturing and employment.
The failure to devise a workable regionalization of government and its services between the city and its surroundings accounts for many of the city's problems. Perhaps there is a lesson for other cities that are under threat. 
Two contrasting events in the region's history hint at the problems and the promise of regionalization.
In the early 1970s racial tensions exploded when a federal court endorsed a plan for cross-district busing of school children between black Detroit and white suburbia. Eventually the Supreme Court calmed the tumult when it ruled against the plan. A regional approach had failed.
But in 2012 a three-county referendum that authorized a property tax levy to support a financially beleaguered Detroit Institute of Arts won approval. Common interests have the potential to cross the boundary separating city and suburbs.
Perhaps a regionally grounded effort, in collaboration with the state and federal governments, offers a way forward for other cities. The question is whether our rickety, dysfunctional political system can muster the wisdom and the will for such an effort. Anything less is likely to fail.
JOHN BARNARD Orleans, Mass., July 29, 2013
The writer is emeritus professor of history at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich.
Readers React
My response to Professor Barnard's call for regionalism in metro Detroit is simple: amen.
My family relocated to Farmington Hills, a township of former cornfields in southeastern Michigan, in the early 1970s. Throughout my childhood the animus between the city and the suburbs was a constant theme, with Detroit's mayor, Coleman Young, advising criminals to ''hit 8 Mile Road'' (code for getting out of the city and into the suburbs), and suburbanites expressing frankly negative and often shockingly racist opinions about the city and its leaders.
Suburbanites to this day have largely turned their backs on the city. One of my relatives likes to boast that he hasn't been in the city in 35 years. Similarly, the political leadership of the suburbs has shown little inclination to work cooperatively with the city.
One huge barrier to any form of regionalism is the politics of race in Detroit. Distrust is deep; communication is poor. Without addressing race it is hard for me to see how any regional solution could move forward.
There certainly are some good examples of regionalism in the United States for Detroit to learn from. Tax-base sharing in Minneapolis-St. Paul and management of urban growth and regional services in metropolitan Portland, Ore., come to mind. But without effective dialogue and political will, regionalism is dead in the water.
Perhaps a generational change of leadership in metropolitan Detroit is what it will take to see and work on the big picture.
ELLEN M. BASSETT Charlottesville, Va., July 31, 2013
The writer is an associate professor of urban planning at the University of Virginia.
The relocation of Detroit's tax base and economic vitality to the suburbs wasn't simply ''white flight,'' nor was it the invisible hand of a free marketplace. It was government policy. Suburbanization in the mid to late 20th century was the product of large federal subsidies for new roads and water and sewer systems in the suburbs, lending policies favoring new subdivisions on farmland, and energy policies that kept the short-term price of fossil fuel artificially low. Without comparable support, existing infrastructure (including transit) in established urban neighborhoods deteriorated.
Regionalization of fiscal benefits and burdens would have helped avoid metro Detroit's current disparities. But the borders of local government in our nation have been among the most immutable in the world.
Forging new approaches to regional governance shouldn't be perceived as the suburbs bailing out the center cities. Center cities have underlying strengths that flourish on a fair playing field. Metropolitan alliances can be built on what Tocqueville would call ''self-interest, rightly understood.'' Transcending old boundaries is only partly a matter of shared responsibility, but mostly one of shared destiny and mutual opportunity.
DAVID BRAGDON Brooklyn, July 31, 2013
The writer is executive director of TransitCenter and former president of the Metro Council in the region of Portland, Ore., the only directly elected regional government in the United States.
Mr. Barnard's provocative letter implies that suburban residents should be willing to assist central cities because doing so helps themselves. Indeed, studies have systematically suggested that the fiscal health of suburbs is directly related to the fiscal health of their central city.
Why, then, do suburbs resist aiding central cities through commuter taxes, regional taxes or other forms of burden sharing?
Shortsighted self-interest or invidious discrimination may provide partial explanations. But even suburbanites who favor cooperation will be reluctant to contribute to a municipal general fund allocated by city officials who have proved profligate. Like venture capitalists, suburban investors will want a ''seat on the board.''
The challenge to regional cooperation lies in creating novel governance structures that allow suburban contributors meaningful monitoring and voice over central city investments that can redound to mutual benefit. The Detroit Institute of Arts and participation of suburban communities on the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department Board of Commissioners serve as examples.
CLAYTON P. GILLETTE New York, July 31, 2013
The writer teaches local government law at New York University School of Law.
Professor Barnard's idea for regional sharing of the responsibilities and burdens of local government is a good one -- in an ideal world. But as someone who has just left the very town he now inhabits on Cape Cod, I can provide another perspective.
He need look no farther than the Cape Cod Commission, a nearby regional authority, to see the real-world limits of a broader approach.
The Cape Cod Commission has the resources and expertise to address the problems facing the small peninsula where its responsibility lies. Unfortunately that is all it has; the towns along the Cape, from Sandwich to Provincetown, retain the political power. Local issues dominate town politics, and budget increases are not popular, even for needed local improvements.
Recently Orleans voters rejected the sewering of the downtown, and the adjacent town of Eastham refused to pay for a municipal water system. Need I add that the commission has been supporting improving water quality on Cape Cod for years?
It seems, then, that local voters have a difficult time supporting their own neighbors, let alone helping out the voters of adjacent, related towns. Self-interest trumps the logic of neighborhood concern, forget regional concern. A sad story, but not an unusual one, alas.
JAMES HADLEY Providence, R.I., July 31, 2013
The Writer Responds
Professor Bassett raises the issue of racial division. It would be foolish to underestimate it, but tragic to assume that racial relations are frozen in time and place. There are signs that we are on the verge of change. Americans have twice elected an African-American to the highest office, and African-Americans occupy leading positions in business.
Current demographic dynamics -- differential birthrates and the composition of immigration -- favor racial and ethnic minorities. Oncoming generations seem to be less bound by old racialist dogmas. Is it too much to say that race is being addressed, inadequately to be sure, as we speak?
Mr. Bragdon usefully points out the critical role played by federal government policy in urban and suburban development. Familiar alliances of interest groups formed to forge policies that, on the whole, poorly served the larger national interest.
Mr. Bragdon and Mr. Gillette cite the necessity of devising carefully structured regional institutions if the goal of advancing the interests of all is to be achieved.
Mr. Hadley relates some of the limitations of a regional approach attempted on Cape Cod. The radical decentralization of governing authority in Massachusetts (351 separate governing cities and towns) is not matched anywhere else in the nation outside of quirky New England.
JOHN BARNARD Orleans, Mass., Aug. 2, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREW HOLDER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); POLITICS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (72%); MAYORS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); REFERENDUMS (50%); APPROVALS (50%)

PERSON: NORM COLEMAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



131 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Sea Freak

BYLINE: By WARREN ST. JOHN

 BODY:
There is a moment when the yachts racing in this year's America's Cup go from being mere boats to something more like flying machines. It happens at around 17 knots, or 20 miles per hour, when both hulls of the carbon-fiber catamarans rise out of the water and the entire craft skims over the surface on a thin hydrofoil beneath the downwind pontoon. Free of the water's drag, the vessels accelerate to speeds as great as 50 miles per hour.
The sportswriter Red Smith has been credited with remarking that the America's Cup is about ''as exciting as watching grass grow.'' For most of the event's 162-year history, racing took place far from shore and in heavy monohull boats that displaced lots of water and plodded around the courses at average speeds of around 10 miles per hour. But after winning the last cup in Valencia, Spain, in 2010, Larry Ellison, the billionaire software mogul and the owner of Oracle Team USA, pushed for changes to try to make things more exciting and spectator-friendly. 
Because the cup's charter -- known as the Deed of Gift -- permits the defender to choose the venue of the next competition, he was able to have it take place in San Francisco Bay, within sight of the shore, where organizers have put up grandstands. Ellison and his team also got the competition to accept a new boat design that features 131-foot-tall wing sails atop 72-foot-long hydroplaning catamarans. These yachts, called AC72s, now travel nearly four times as fast as the boats of old -- and for sustained bursts they can move more than twice as fast as even the multihulls that competed in 2010. (Those craft didn't hydrofoil.) John Rousmaniere, who writes about sailing and the history of the America's Cup, describes them as ''Indy cars without brakes.''
Getting spectators to embrace the souped-up sport has not been without challenges, however. Organizers were expecting as many as 12 teams to vie for the opportunity to take on Oracle Team USA in September, before racing began in July to determine the finalist. But the cost of an America's Cup campaign -- which can creep as high as $100 million for the expensive boats and more than three years of salaries for crew and support staff -- deterred potential entrants, and only three challengers showed up. The poor turnout has both dampened the economic boost the host city was counting on and reduced the potential global TV audience.
There are doubts about the safety of the yachts themselves, too. Last October, one of Oracle's boats capsized during training, and the wing sail broke into pieces. No one was hurt then, but in May, a 36-year-old British sailor and Olympic medalist named Andrew Simpson was killed when the yacht of the Swedish team Artemis Racing capsized and broke up during training, trapping the crewman under water. While Simpson's death is not the first for an America's Cup sailor -- two crewmen were killed in separate training events in 1903, and two more while training in 1935 and 1999 -- the incident prompted a slight reduction in the upper wind speed limit for races. ''These boats are immensely powerful,'' Rousmaniere says, referring to the AC72s. ''It's an entirely different kind of boat -- a whole new realm.''
When the photographer Mike Escamilla showed up in July to take pictures aboard one of Oracle's two racing yachts, he had little appreciation for the speed or danger of the AC72. Escamilla, a Los Angeles-based professional stuntman and BMX rider, has also made a name for himself online with his videos and photographs of extreme sports. But he knew next to nothing about the America's Cup. ''I thought I was going to jump on some sailboats that were kind of fast and shoot some photos,'' he says.
The first sign that the experience might not be so routine came when Escamilla checked in at headquarters on Pier 80 in San Francisco. He was given a dry suit, a life preserver, a harness and a helmet, as well as a knife and an air canister, to help him survive in case he got trapped underwater in a capsize.
Escamilla was lucky to get onboard at all. After Simpson's death, it was decided that the extra spot onboard -- traditionally reserved for sponsors, dignitaries and members of the news media -- would no longer be available during racing. The boats, the thinking goes, are too dangerous for all but seasoned crews. Oracle agreed to allow Escamilla onboard for what turned out to be 45 minutes on a practice run. He took most of his pictures on small and light GoPro digital cameras, often affixed to parts of the boat or a small telescoping pole, to help him get shots above the spray and the scrum of the 11-man crew jumping back and forth across the trampoline between the boat's hulls.
The restrictions seemed a bit much to Escamilla, who once back-flipped his BMX bike over the rotating blades of a helicopter for a show on MTV. But as soon the yacht lifted out of the water on its hydrofoils, Escamilla says, he began to understand. The ride became eerily smooth as the hulls left the surface, the crew scrambling about all the while to keep what amounted to an awkwardly shaped airplane from going nose first into the sea. On these downwind runs, Escamilla was asked to stow his pole -- the risk of it flying away and hitting someone was too great, he was told, and besides, he needed to hang on.
''I've been in a lot of situations, and I don't really get scared -- I get concerned,'' Escamilla says. ''When we got moving, I spent a lot of time looking at people's faces to see how things were going, and there were times when I was very concerned.''
After just 25 minutes, Escamilla says, he was spent. The sailors themselves were just getting started on a practice session that would last hours, in preparation for an event that could consist of as many as 17 races in early September. When he debarked Oracle's yacht by way of a support boat, Escamilla says, he did so with a certainty that for better or worse, the America's Cup is now extreme.
''Of all the things I've ever done in my life,'' he says, ''this was one of gnarliest.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of Oracle Team USA, current holders of the America's Cup, training for the 2013 competition. (MM26-MM27)
Rigging: The Oracle Team USA yacht (right) is hoisted into the water by crane. Far right, top: Dean Curtis, a member of the shore crew, or support team, ascending the yacht's wing to position the weather vane, which measures the direction and velocity of the wind. Bottom right: The team during a practice run. (MM28
MM29)
The Grind Left: Matt Mitchell working the hand cranks, or ''grinding.'' The cranks power the mechanical and hydraulic systems of the yacht. Above: A training run. Multihulled yachts today can be more than twice as fast as the ones used in the last America's Cup, in 2010. (MM30
MM31)
Getting a Jump: Crew members on the trampoline that is stretched between hulls. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE ESCAMILLA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM32-MM33) DRAWINGS: Best in Class: The America's Cup, the oldest active trophy in international competitive sports, is actually named after a boat, not a landmass. In 1851, the New York-based America raced 15 British yachts around the Isle of Wight to win the cup that would take her name. The 33 competitions held since then (generally once every three to fi ve years) have challenged both engineers and sailors, from the huge sloops of the Gilded Age to the elegant J-Class yachts of the 1930s to the winged, composite-fi ber craft of today. Here are six that put the sport on a new tack.
1851  AMERICA
1903  RELIANCE
1983  AUSTRALIA 11 (MM30)
1992  AMERICA 3
2010  USA 17
 2013  ORACLE TEAM USA 17 (DRAWINGS BY +ISM.) (MM31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOAT RACING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); SAILING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (70%)

TICKER: ORCL (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (70%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (70%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (70%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (59%); SPAIN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



132 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: What's an Hour of Your Time Worth?

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
Like a lot of accountants, Jason Blumer never really wanted to be an accountant; he wanted to play guitar in a hair-metal band. But like most guys who want to play guitar in a hair-metal band, Blumer eventually realized that there wasn't much money in touring bars and being paid in beer-smeared $20 bills. So he changed gears and decided to follow his dad into what seemed like one of the more steady businesses around. After college, he bought some suits, joined a midsize firm in South Carolina and processed his clients' payroll and tax returns. He billed them by the hour. He hated every second of it.
Blumer, 42, wanted to infuse a bit more rock 'n' roll into his industry. So when he eventually took over his father's small firm, he made his own rules: There would be no time sheets, no dress code and, most radical of all, no billable hours. He was convinced, in fact, that the billable hour was part of a series of mistakes that took all the fun out of his profession. To him, it seemed like a relic of a dying economic age and one that was depriving his industry of billions in profit. 
The notion of charging by units of time was popularized in the 1950s, when the American Bar Association was becoming alarmed that the income of lawyers was falling precipitously behind that of doctors (and, worse, dentists). The A.B.A. published an influential pamphlet, ''The 1958 Lawyer and His 1938 Dollar,'' which suggested that the industry should eschew fixed-rate fees and replicate the profitable efficiencies of mass-production manufacturing. Factories sold widgets, the idea went, and so lawyers should sell their services in simple, easy-to-manage units. The A.B.A. suggested a unit of time -- the hour -- which would allow a well-run firm to oversee its staff's productivity as mechanically as a conveyor belt managed its throughput. This led to generations of junior associates working through the night in hopes of making partner and abusing the next crop. It was adopted by countless other service professionals, including accountants.
During the past few decades, as the economic logic of the United States has changed, global trade and technology have made it all but impossible for any industry to make much profit in mass production of any sort. (Companies like G.E., Nike and Apple learned early on that the real money was in the creative ideas that can transform simple physical products far beyond their generic or commodity value.) Similar forces have ripped through professional services, particularly accounting, a profession that, until recently, was little changed from its 16th-century roots. Software like TurboTax has made the most basic work worth little. Cheaper accountants in India, Ireland, Eastern Europe and Latin America have steadily taken over the more routine types of business, though not quite as voraciously as once predicted.
Just as Apple doesn't want to be in the generic MP3-player business, Blumer didn't want to be just one more guy competing to charge a few hundred dollars an hour to do your taxes. A few years ago, he said, he realized that the billable hour was undercutting his value -- it was his profession's commodity, suggesting to clients that he and his colleagues were interchangeable containers of finite, measurable units that could be traded for money. Perhaps the biggest problem, though, was that billing by the hour incentivized long, boring projects rather than those that required specialized, valuable insight that couldn't (and shouldn't) be measured in time. Paradoxically, the billable hour encouraged Blumer and his colleagues to spend more time than necessary on routine work rather than on the more nuanced jobs.
But those complex problems were the ones that Blumer wanted to solve, and he also knew his insights were more valuable than the time it took him to conjure them. So he identified a niche -- creative professionals who struggled to manage their finances as their start-ups became mature businesses -- and he endeavored to help his clients make (and save) enough money that they would gladly pay a significant fee without asking about the hours it took him to figure out what to do. Blumer has been so successful in his approach that he has become a leading voice among a national band of accountants who call themselves the Cliff Jumpers. Many Cliff Jumpers have abandoned the traditional bill-by-the-hour approach to focus on noncommodity accounting solutions for specific client groups. One focuses on entrepreneurs hoping to sell their new businesses; several work with people who are terrified about starting a small business.
Perhaps without realizing it, the Cliff Jumpers are at the forefront of one of the great challenges of modern economics. Measuring productivity is central to economic policy -- it's especially crucial in the decisions made by the Federal Reserve -- but we are increasingly flying blind. It's relatively easy to figure out if steel companies can make a ton of steel more efficiently than in the past (they can, by a lot), but we have no idea how to measure the financial value of ideas and the people who come up with them. ''Compared with the mid-1900s, goods production is not as important a part of our economy, but we continue to devote about 90 percent of our statistical resources to measuring it,'' says Barry Bosworth, a Brookings Institution economist who is a leading thinker on productivity in the service sector.
Many economists have tried to break professional ''knowledge workers'' down into their component parts. It's fraught enough with lawyers and accountants, Bosworth says, but it's all but impossible with other professions, like doctors and teachers. ''We don't even try with education,'' he says. In the meantime, the Bureau of Labor Statistics directly measures the productivity of only 60 percent of U.S. industries, which means that nearly half of our economic activity is unknown, including almost all of the fastest-growing sectors. If education and health care are not becoming more productive, as many economists fear, it will be hard to know if government policies to improve those sectors are working without knowing what to measure in the first place.
During the 20th century, industry started out in small workshops that created unique handcrafted products. Over time, they morphed into massive plants that churned out a countless number of identical units. Now there's a synthesis. In the era of mass specialization, companies are using high-tech efficiencies to make customized products that each consumer finds especially valuable. This has enormous advantages for both consumers and producers, but the big problem it creates is that we don't know how to do the math. Blumer, who, after all, is an accountant, told me that set formulas and financial spreadsheets are just not compatible with this new approach to work. He can only figure out what to charge his clients after spending a lot of (unbilled) time talking to them about their needs. But now that it's clear that the fundamental nature of work has changed, it is fitting that a bunch of rogue outliers from one of the world's oldest professions are helping guide the way.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. Billing by the hour no longer makes economic sense.
2. But how else will we measure value?
3. In today's economy, you can't be a commodity.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW PRACTICE (90%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE HOURS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); EMPLOYEE TIMEKEEPING (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (65%); GLOBALIZATION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (86%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



133 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Iran's President Puts New Focus On the Economy

BYLINE: By THOMAS ERDBRINK

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- Iran's new president, Hassan Rouhani, vowed Saturday to work with the outside world to lift the ''oppressive sanctions'' crippling the Iranian economy, as he received the official backing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei at a ceremony marking the start of his presidential term.
In an acknowledgment of the growing toll that international economic restrictions connected to Iran's nuclear program are having on the population, both Mr. Rouhani and Ayatollah Khamenei made the economy a major theme of their remarks.
''People called for change and improvement in their living standards, they want to live better,'' Mr. Rouhani said. 
But he and the ayatollah offered somewhat different solutions. Whereas Mr. Rouhani said that interactions with the world, meaning talks with Europe and potentially the United States, were a way out of the crisis, Ayatollah Khamenei, who as supreme leader has final word on all important issues, expressed pessimism that such overtures would yield fruit. ''Some of our enemies do not speak with our language of wisdom,'' he said, urging self-sufficiency.
As Mr. Rouhani takes his public oath of office on Sunday, Iran's growing economic crisis sits atop his agenda. Sanctions have slashed oil exports and limited Iran's ability to transfer money from abroad. The shortage has been aggravated by the profligate spending that is a legacy of the departing government of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
During most of Mr. Ahmadinejad's two four-year terms, Iran enjoyed an oil windfall, with a flow of dollars and euros that fueled huge imports on goods ranging from ice cream to Porsches.
But now Mr. Rouhani's aides describe Iran's economic situation as the worst in decades. Many blame what they call Mr. Ahmadinejad's erratic economic policies, punctuated by slashed subsidies and unbridled inflation.
The signs of woe abound.
Lacking money, Iran's national soccer team scrapped a training trip to Portugal. Teachers in Tehran nervously awaited their wages, which were inexplicably delayed by more than a week. Officials warned recently that food and medicine imports have stalled for three weeks because of a lack of foreign currency.
While Mr. Rouhani has asked for a hundred days to review the state of the economy and devise solutions, there are some voices who now say that the only way to solve the economic ills is to come up with a political settlement of Iran's nuclear dispute. Those voices were barely heard during Mr. Ahmadinejad's tenure.
''Rouhani's economic success depends on the determination of Iran's other leaders to find a solution for the nuclear support,'' an economics professor, Mohsen Renani of the University of Isfahan, told the Web site Neco News.
In another sign of dissatisfaction over the consequences of Iran's nuclear stance, an influential political professor publicly expressed doubt recently over the benefits of the nuclear program. ''Why are we producing radioisotopes when we can import them much cheaper?'' the professor, Sadegh Zibakalam of Tehran University, told the reformist weekly Aseman. ''Why should we maintain a nuclear program when we have no economic justification?''
While those voices may have grown louder, they by no means represent the official position of Iran's ruling establishment, which maintains that self-sufficiency in nuclear energy is nonnegotiable.
''Whatever happens, our nuclear stances will not change nor waver,'' Mohammad Taghi Rahbar, a former member of Parliament and an influential Friday Prayer leader in Isfahan, said in an interview. ''Our supreme leader, the nation and all officials from all factions believe this is our inalienable right, so we will not retreat at all.''
But ignoring the increasing economic pressures, while promising a better future -- a strategy favored by Iran's leaders over the past years -- is proving increasingly complicated. Almost everybody in Iran is feeling the pain.
''It starts with little things, like some weeks ago there was no butter to be found,'' said Somaye, 31, a teacher who asked that she not be fully identified so as not to attract the attention of the authorities. ''It makes you think, What's going on?''
Like those of other teachers in Tehran, the capital and economic pulse of the country, her wages came in unusually late this month, after officials had promised every day they would pay. It took 10 days for her salary to be transferred. ''I got in trouble with debts I had to pay,'' she said.
Last week, the Portuguese coach of Iran's soccer team, Carlos Queiroz, who helped Iran qualify for the 2014 World Cup, told local news media that an important training trip to Lisbon had been canceled because officials said there was no money to pay for it. Importers are complaining that the Central Bank is not providing them with foreign currency needed to buy products abroad. ''We really need all sorts of medicine, from contraception pills to products for hemophilia patients,'' said one influential importer who asked not to be identified because of his government contacts. ''But we can't bring them in as the Central Bank is not providing us with dollars.''
Less oil money is coming in because of the sanctions. Iran's largest customer, China, has not been paying for oil purchases with cash, instead bartering with goods and equipment at unfavorable prices, the news agency Tasmin reported last Sunday, quoting Amir Jafarpour, the manager of the Oil Ministry's transportation and fuel headquarters.
''Instead of getting our money we have been forced to buy 315 Chinese-made subway coaches at higher prices,'' he said, complaining that the Chinese were also pocketing the interest at Iranian oil bank accounts in China.
The sanctions situation could become far more onerous under legislation passed Wednesday by the United States House of Representatives, which would basically coerce Iran's remaining oil customers to find other suppliers. The legislation, which the Senate will consider next month, amounts to a threatened embargo on Iran's oil, its most important export.
Mr. Ahmadinejad defended his policies in a meeting with Ayatollah Khamenei last week, saying that Iranians had never been happier and that his government had successfully changed the way ballooning state subsidies were distributed by increasing prices of staples and giving direct cash handouts of $13 each to 60 million people each month.
But as members of Mr. Rouhani's team prepare to take over, they say they are shocked with what they are finding as they go through the books. ''The economic situation is much worse from what we expected,'' Akbar Torkan, a member of Mr. Rouhani's inner circle, told Aseman.
Others are more outspoken. ''Iran is an economical wreck,'' Yahya Ale Eshaq, a former trade minister and close ally of Mr. Rouhani, told Tejarat-e Farda, a business magazine, last week.
Warning that imported raw materials had dwindled, grinding local production to a halt, Mr. Ale Eshaq, who is also the head of the Tehran Chamber of Commerce, said that one of Mr. Rouhani's main challenges would be just to provide basic goods. ''We will face shortages,'' he said.
Mr. Rouhani has criticized Mr. Ahmadinejad's economic policies, saying that almost no jobs had been created during his two terms and that millions of Iranians could face unemployment in coming years.
He also told lawmakers that inflation was rising at an annualized rate of 42 percent -- far higher than the 32 percent rate reported by the government-controlled Central Bank. Private economists say Iran's inflation rate could be even higher.
''The outgoing government for a long time enjoyed record oil revenues,'' said Morteza Bank, a former minister who now advises Mr. Rouhani. He said that Iran was currently exporting one million barrels of oil a day. That is less than half the 2.5 million barrels a day exported before the sanctions were imposed.
''We have to make the effort to reconstruct this economical wreck,'' he told the semiofficial Iranian Labour News Agency on Saturday.
Those close to Mr. Rouhani say he will do what he can to turn the economy around. He is now asking Parliament to alter the coming budget to prevent a deficit, which means his cabinet will take unpopular measures like cutting the cash payments and increasing gasoline prices.
''Unless we take measures, we will not be able to pay the cash subsidies from December onward,'' Gholam Reza Tajgardoun, a former vice president, warned in the reformist newspaper Shargh Daily.
Members of Mr. Rouhani's inner circle have hewed to the official line that the sanctions and economic woes will not force any nuclear concessions. ''First of all we are looking for seriousness from the other side,'' said an associate of Mr. Rouhani's. ''Unless we see tangible, serious, active reach-out, we will not be persuaded to spin around empty gestures,'' the associate said, asking to remain anonymous upon Mr. Rouhani's request.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A supermarket in Tehran. Teachers in the city nervously awaited their wages, which were delayed by more than a week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VAHID SALEMI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INFLATION (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); SOCCER (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (66%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (65%); CURRENCIES (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (92%); ALI KHAMENEI (88%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (59%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); IRAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



134 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; DISPATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Life In A Toxic Country

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG. 
A correspondent in China for The New York Times.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- I RECENTLY found myself hauling a bag filled with 12 boxes of milk powder and a cardboard container with two sets of air filters through San Francisco International Airport. I was heading to my home in Beijing at the end of a work trip, bringing back what have become two of the most sought-after items among parents here, and which were desperately needed in my own household.
China is the world's second largest economy, but the enormous costs of its growth are becoming apparent. Residents of its boom cities and a growing number of rural regions question the safety of the air they breathe, the water they drink and the food they eat. It is as if they were living in the Chinese equivalent of the Chernobyl or Fukushima nuclear disaster areas.
Before this assignment, I spent three and a half years reporting in Iraq, where foreign correspondents talked endlessly of the variety of ways in which one could die -- car bombs, firefights, being abducted and then beheaded. I survived those threats, only now to find myself wondering: Is China doing irreparable harm to me and my family? 
The environmental hazards here are legion, and the consequences might not manifest themselves for years or even decades. The risks are magnified for young children. Expatriate workers confronted with the decision of whether to live in Beijing weigh these factors, perhaps more than at any time in recent decades. But for now, a correspondent's job in China is still rewarding, and so I am toughing it out a while longer. So is my wife, Tini, who has worked for more than a dozen years as a journalist in Asia and has studied Chinese. That means we are subjecting our 9-month-old daughter to the same risks that are striking fear into residents of cities across northern China, and grappling with the guilt of doing so.
Like them, we take precautions. Here in Beijing, high-tech air purifiers are as coveted as luxury sedans. Soon after I was posted to Beijing, in 2008, I set up a couple of European-made air purifiers used by previous correspondents. In early April, I took out one of the filters for the first time to check it: the layer of dust was as thick as moss on a forest floor. It nauseated me. I ordered two new sets of filters to be picked up in San Francisco; those products are much cheaper in the United States. My colleague Amy told me that during the Lunar New Year in February, a family friend brought over a 35-pound purifier from California for her husband, a Chinese-American who had been posted to the Beijing office of a large American technology company. Before getting the purifier, the husband had considered moving to Suzhou, a smaller city lined with canals, because he could no longer tolerate the pollution in Beijing.
Every morning, when I roll out of bed, I check an app on my cellphone that tells me the air quality index as measured by the United States Embassy, whose monitoring device is near my home. I want to see whether I need to turn on the purifiers and whether my wife and I can take our daughter outside.
Most days, she ends up housebound. Statistics released Wednesday by the Ministry of Environmental Protection revealed that air quality in Beijing was deemed unsafe for more than 60 percent of the days in the first half of 2013. The national average was also dismal: it failed to meet the safety standard in nearly half the days of the same six-month period. The environment minister, Zhou Shengxian, told People's Daily, the Communist Party mouthpiece, that ''China's air quality is grim, and the amount of pollution emissions far exceeds the environment's capacity.''
I want my daughter to grow up appreciating the outdoors -- sunsets and birdcalls and the smell of grass or the shape of clouds. That will be impossible if we live for many more years in Beijing. Even with my adult-size lungs, I limit my time outdoors. Though I ran on the banks of the Tigris River while in Baghdad and competed in two marathons before moving to China, I am hesitant about doing long-distance training for that kind of race here.
One thing I refuse to forgo is biking, even if it means greater exposure to hazardous air than commuting by car or subway. Given the horrendous traffic here -- itself a major contributor to the pollution -- I go to the office and restaurants and my courtyard home in Beijing's alleys on two wheels. This winter, I bought a British-made face mask after levels of fine particulate matter hit a record high in January in some areas -- 40 times the exposure limit recommended by the World Health Organization. Foreigners called it the ''airpocalypse,'' and a growing number are leaving China because of the smog or demanding hardship pay from their employers.
One American doctor here has procured a mask for his infant son. My mask of sleek black fabric and plastic knobs makes me look like an Asian Darth Vader. Better that, though, than losing years of my life.
THIS spring, new data released from the 2010 Global Burden of Disease Study, first published in The Lancet, revealed that China's outdoor pollution contributed to 1.2 million premature deaths in 2010, or 40 percent of the worldwide total. Another study, published by a prominent American science journal in July, found that northern Chinese lived five fewer years on average than their southern counterparts because of the widespread use of coal in the north.
Cancer rates are surging in China, and even the state news media are examining the relation between that and air pollution. Meanwhile, studies both in and outside of China have shown that children with prenatal exposure to high levels of air pollutants exhibit signs of slower mental development and of behavior disorders. Research from Los Angeles shows that children in polluted environments are also at risk for permanent lung damage.
In northern China, shades of gray distinguish one day from another. My wife and I sometimes choose our vacation destinations based on how much blue we can expect to see -- thus a recent trip to Tuscany and the Amalfi Coast. I will never take such skies for granted again. ''We still can't get over how blue the skies are here,'' the wife of an American diplomat told me over dinner in Georgetown more than half a year after the couple had moved back to Washington from Beijing.
Food safety is the other issue weighing on us. We have heard the stories of rat meat being passed off as lamb at hotpot restaurants, cooking oil being recycled and crops being grown in soil polluted by heavy metals or wastewater from factories. The food catastrophe that most frightened both Chinese and foreign parents was the milk scandal of 2008, in which six babies died and at least 300,000 children fell ill after drinking milk products tainted with melamine, a toxic chemical. Since then, many parents of newborns have gone to great lengths to bring into China foreign-made infant milk powder when it is needed to supplement breast-feeding.
Months after my trip back from San Francisco, my wife and I realized that our supply of formula was dwindling. We sent e-mails to friends we thought might be traveling soon to China, asking for volunteers to be ''mules.'' Our friend Alexa flew in from New York this week with two boxes of powder. We have two other friends who promise to bring more this summer.
I recently spoke to a woman in Beijing, Zhao Jun, who pays Chinese students and housewives living in Europe to mail her cans of Cow & Gate, a British brand. ''We're constantly worried, so we want to find a good brand from overseas with a long history,'' she said.
So widespread is the phenomenon of Chinese buying milk powder abroad that it has led to shortages in at least a half-dozen countries. Hong Kong has even cracked down on what customs officials call ''syndicates'' smuggling foreign-made powder to mainland China.
The anxieties do not end with milk. Our daughter has begun eating solids, so that means many more questions for us about how we source our food. Do we continue buying fruits and vegetables from the small shops in the alleys around our home? Do we buy from more expensive stores aimed at foreigners and wealthier Chinese? Do we buy from local organic farms? Last weekend, I went with a friend to visit a village home an hour's drive northeast of Beijing. He and his wife wanted to lease it as a weekend house, but I was more interested in gauging whether I could use the garden to grow our own vegetables. Some people I know here have done that.
''It's so difficult to protect yourself on the food issue,'' said Li Bo, a proponent of communal gardening and a board member of Friends of Nature, an environmental advocacy group. ''I never thought I would become a vegetarian. Then in 2011, I said enough of meat, after so many examples of wrongdoing in animal husbandry.''
Each day that passes in Beijing makes it harder to discern the fine line between paranoia and precaution. Six years ago, when I was back in my hometown Alexandria, Va., to pack for my move to China, my mother handed me several tubes of toothpaste. She had read stories that summer of toxic toothpaste made in China. I felt as if I was going off to college for my freshman year all over again. I put the tubes back in my parents' bathroom. When I go home these days, my mother still on occasion gives me toothpaste to bring back to Beijing, and I no longer hesitate to pack it in my bag.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A baby being given nebulizer therapy at Beijing Children's Hospital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LI WEN/XINHUA, VIA CORBIS) (SR1)
 The China Central Television headquarters building in Beijing, wreathed in haze. (PHOTOGRAPH LIU JIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (SR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (74%); ASIAN AMERICANS (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (72%); AIRPORTS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); SEDANS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (98%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); UKRAINE (78%); ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



135 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Can Suburbs Help Cities?

 BODY:
Readers discuss taking a regional approach to reviving Detroit.
To the Editor:
A fact sometimes ignored in discussions of Detroit's bankruptcy filing is that its metropolitan area, which officially includes three neighboring counties and unofficially parts of several more, has not shared the city's distress. White flight, beginning in the early 1950s and accelerating thereafter, relocated much of the city's tax base and economic vitality into the surrounding suburbs and exurbs.
The economic, social, political and demographic composition of southeastern Michigan looks different when the entire region is brought into view. In fact, the metropolitan area's population increased from 1950 to 2010. And the region remains a major location for auto manufacturing and employment.
The failure to devise a workable regionalization of government and its services between the city and its surroundings accounts for many of the city's problems. Perhaps there is a lesson for other cities that are under threat. 
Two contrasting events in the region's history hint at the problems and the promise of regionalization.
In the early 1970s racial tensions exploded when a federal court endorsed a plan for cross-district busing of school children between black Detroit and white suburbia. Eventually the Supreme Court calmed the tumult when it ruled against the plan. A regional approach had failed.
But in 2012 a three-county referendum that authorized a property tax levy to support a financially beleaguered Detroit Institute of Arts won approval. Common interests have the potential to cross the boundary separating city and suburbs.
Perhaps a regionally grounded effort, in collaboration with the state and federal governments, offers a way forward for other cities. The question is whether our rickety, dysfunctional political system can muster the wisdom and the will for such an effort. Anything less is likely to fail.
JOHN BARNARD Orleans, Mass., July 29, 2013
The writer is emeritus professor of history at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich.
Readers React
My response to Professor Barnard's call for regionalism in metro Detroit is simple: amen.
My family relocated to Farmington Hills, a township of former cornfields in southeastern Michigan, in the early 1970s. Throughout my childhood the animus between the city and the suburbs was a constant theme, with Detroit's mayor, Coleman Young, advising criminals to ''hit 8 Mile Road'' (code for getting out of the city and into the suburbs), and suburbanites expressing frankly negative and often shockingly racist opinions about the city and its leaders.
Suburbanites to this day have largely turned their backs on the city. One of my relatives likes to boast that he hasn't been in the city in 35 years. Similarly, the political leadership of the suburbs has shown little inclination to work cooperatively with the city.
One huge barrier to any form of regionalism is the politics of race in Detroit. Distrust is deep; communication is poor. Without addressing race it is hard for me to see how any regional solution could move forward.
There certainly are some good examples of regionalism in the United States for Detroit to learn from. Tax-base sharing in Minneapolis-St. Paul and management of urban growth and regional services in metropolitan Portland, Ore., come to mind. But without effective dialogue and political will, regionalism is dead in the water.
Perhaps a generational change of leadership in metropolitan Detroit is what it will take to see and work on the big picture.
ELLEN M. BASSETT Charlottesville, Va., July 31, 2013
The writer is an associate professor of urban planning at the University of Virginia.
The relocation of Detroit's tax base and economic vitality to the suburbs wasn't simply ''white flight,'' nor was it the invisible hand of a free marketplace. It was government policy. Suburbanization in the mid to late 20th century was the product of large federal subsidies for new roads and water and sewer systems in the suburbs, lending policies favoring new subdivisions on farmland, and energy policies that kept the short-term price of fossil fuel artificially low. Without comparable support, existing infrastructure (including transit) in established urban neighborhoods deteriorated.
Regionalization of fiscal benefits and burdens would have helped avoid metro Detroit's current disparities. But the borders of local government in our nation have been among the most immutable in the world.
Forging new approaches to regional governance shouldn't be perceived as the suburbs bailing out the center cities. Center cities have underlying strengths that flourish on a fair playing field. Metropolitan alliances can be built on what Tocqueville would call ''self-interest, rightly understood.'' Transcending old boundaries is only partly a matter of shared responsibility, but mostly one of shared destiny and mutual opportunity.
DAVID BRAGDON Brooklyn, July 31, 2013
The writer is executive director of TransitCenter and former president of the Metro Council in the region of Portland, Ore., the only directly elected regional government in the United States.
Mr. Barnard's provocative letter implies that suburban residents should be willing to assist central cities because doing so helps themselves. Indeed, studies have systematically suggested that the fiscal health of suburbs is directly related to the fiscal health of their central city.
Why, then, do suburbs resist aiding central cities through commuter taxes, regional taxes or other forms of burden sharing?
Shortsighted self-interest or invidious discrimination may provide partial explanations. But even suburbanites who favor cooperation will be reluctant to contribute to a municipal general fund allocated by city officials who have proved profligate. Like venture capitalists, suburban investors will want a ''seat on the board.''
The challenge to regional cooperation lies in creating novel governance structures that allow suburban contributors meaningful monitoring and voice over central city investments that can redound to mutual benefit. The Detroit Institute of Arts and participation of suburban communities on the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department Board of Commissioners serve as examples.
CLAYTON P. GILLETTE New York, July 31, 2013
The writer teaches local government law at New York University School of Law.
Professor Barnard's idea for regional sharing of the responsibilities and burdens of local government is a good one -- in an ideal world. But as someone who has just left the very town he now inhabits on Cape Cod, I can provide another perspective.
He need look no farther than the Cape Cod Commission, a nearby regional authority, to see the real-world limits of a broader approach.
The Cape Cod Commission has the resources and expertise to address the problems facing the small peninsula where its responsibility lies. Unfortunately that is all it has; the towns along the Cape, from Sandwich to Provincetown, retain the political power. Local issues dominate town politics, and budget increases are not popular, even for needed local improvements.
Recently Orleans voters rejected the sewering of the downtown, and the adjacent town of Eastham refused to pay for a municipal water system. Need I add that the commission has been supporting improving water quality on Cape Cod for years?
It seems, then, that local voters have a difficult time supporting their own neighbors, let alone helping out the voters of adjacent, related towns. Self-interest trumps the logic of neighborhood concern, forget regional concern. A sad story, but not an unusual one, alas.
JAMES HADLEY Providence, R.I., July 31, 2013
The Writer Responds
Professor Bassett raises the issue of racial division. It would be foolish to underestimate it, but tragic to assume that racial relations are frozen in time and place. There are signs that we are on the verge of change. Americans have twice elected an African-American to the highest office, and African-Americans occupy leading positions in business.
Current demographic dynamics -- differential birthrates and the composition of immigration -- favor racial and ethnic minorities. Oncoming generations seem to be less bound by old racialist dogmas. Is it too much to say that race is being addressed, inadequately to be sure, as we speak?
Mr. Bragdon usefully points out the critical role played by federal government policy in urban and suburban development. Familiar alliances of interest groups formed to forge policies that, on the whole, poorly served the larger national interest.
Mr. Bragdon and Mr. Gillette cite the necessity of devising carefully structured regional institutions if the goal of advancing the interests of all is to be achieved.
Mr. Hadley relates some of the limitations of a regional approach attempted on Cape Cod. The radical decentralization of governing authority in Massachusetts (351 separate governing cities and towns) is not matched anywhere else in the nation outside of quirky New England.
JOHN BARNARD Orleans, Mass., Aug. 2, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREW HOLDER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); POLITICS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (72%); MAYORS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); REFERENDUMS (50%); APPROVALS (50%)

PERSON: NORM COLEMAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



136 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DATA POINTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: What the Nation Got For $800 Billion

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
SINCE last September, when the Federal Reserve announced its third round of quantitative easing, known as QE3, the central bank has spent $800 billion buying bonds. That's a stupendous sum, more than the budget for the Department of Defense and more than twice what the federal government spends on welfare programs, including food and nutrition assistance, unemployment benefits and disability payments. 
This raises an intriguing question: What did the United States get for all that money?
Like previous rounds of quantitative easing, the goals for QE3 included reducing long-term rates, in that way bolstering lending, housing and employment. Those are big tasks, especially with Congress cutting spending. And there have been improvements, both during earlier rounds and during QE3. Since September, housing and employment have strengthened somewhat, and long-term rates fell for a while. Now, though, rates are actually higher than when QE3 began.
''Data are quite mixed on whether we've seen an expansion of lending,'' said Catherine L. Mann, Rosenberg professor of global finance at Brandeis. Lending has increased for cars and commercial property, she says, but not for small business. New mortgage origination for housing remains weak. Meanwhile, the Fed's outsize presence in the markets for Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities may have changed those markets in ways no one can predict.
QE3 was intended to make riskier assets like stocks more appealing. And stocks, which are predominantly owned by the wealthy, have risen in price. As a Bank of England study has shown, quantitative easing disproportionately benefits those who are already well off.
The Fed had other options. It could have put cash directly into the hands of consumers who needed it. Under the Federal Reserve Act, it can print and lend any amount of money for any length of time to any person or entity, as long as it is satisfied that it is likely to be repaid. With $800 billion, for example, the Fed could have given every homeowner in the country a $10,000 loan at a near-zero rate of interest. Think of what that might have done for the economy.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); NUTRITION (57%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



137 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: Testing, Testing

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN. 
Tamar Lewin is a national education reporter at The Times.

 BODY:
AS if applying to college isn't taxing enough, the process seems to have been ratcheted up another notch. Ambitious high school students are no longer content with just one college admissions test. Not a single college requires it, but many applicants to the nation's most selective colleges and universities are taking -- and retaking -- both the ACT and the SAT.
For more than half a century, the ACT was the also-ran of the college admissions world. Although almost every college for years has accepted either test, the SAT has long represented the gold standard. Some Eastern colleges actually frowned on the ACT, and few students outside the South and the Midwest, where the ACT has been the dominant assessment, would even consider taking it.
''Until recently, even within the admissions community, the ACT was to a degree the stepchild of the SAT,'' said Tom Parker, dean of admissions and financial aid at Amherst College. ''So even with my own staff, I had to be scrupulous to be sure both tests were given equal weight. That's just not an issue anymore.'' 
In fact, the ACT has pulled ahead for the first time: 1,666,017 students took the ACT last year; 1,664,479 took the SAT.
It's not that the SAT is losing customers. On the contrary, the number of test takers has grown. It's that the ACT is growing much faster, in part because 12 states now require, and pay for, all public high school juniors to take the test. But that's not the only reason for the ACT's rising popularity. There is also a real shift in the behavior of top high school students, with many more choosing to work toward impressive scores on both tests.
Of this year's 26,000 applicants to Princeton, 13 percent, or 3,477 students, submitted only ACT scores -- up from 2 percent (385 of 17,000 applicants) for fall 2006. And almost 8,000 this year submitted scores from both tests. That is just fine with Janet Rapelye, dean of admissions -- maybe even desirable.
''I don't know all the pieces of why this is happening, but I think more students are trying to make sure they've done everything they can,'' she said. ''And for us, more information is always better. If students choose one or the other, that's fine, because both tests have value. But if they submit both, that generally gives us a little more information.''
At Harvard, the University of Virginia and the University of California, Los Angeles, about a quarter of applicants for last year's freshman class submitted ACT as well as SAT scores. And those are just the students who did well enough on both tests to believe their scores would boost their chances. Far more take both but submit only one.
Some schools have 10th graders try the Preliminary SAT but also PLAN, the ACT version, to see which yields a better score and thus which to prep for. The following summer, serious test preparation starts. Whether reviewing on their own, in classes or with a private tutor, a considerable chunk of the next year and a half is devoted to vocabulary lists, problem sets, mock tests, real tests and retests; Advanced Placement and SAT subject tests add to the workload.
''What I did was cut out sleep,'' said Sarah Rodeo, who graduated this spring from the Hewitt School, on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, and will start at Vassar this fall.
Because she was also juggling up to 10 dance and yoga classes a week, Ms. Rodeo said, regretfully, that she had not been able to take a practice test each weekend, as many classmates did. And to her intense frustration, her math score remained unimpressive.
''I had kind of a panic attack in spring of junior year,'' she said. ''I honest to God went into therapy to work on my anxiety about the math, because for the amount I worked, my score should have been higher.''
Her guidance counselor reminded her that she had actually done better on PLAN than the PSAT. So after a year of prepping for the SAT, Ms. Rodeo got a copy of the ''Real ACT'' guide and started in on ACT strategies (guessing permissible; only the SAT deducts for wrong answers). She scored a 30 out of 36.
A second taking of the SAT lifted her score by 90 points, to 2150 out of 2400. ''That still wasn't good enough to get me into Brown, which was what I wanted,'' she said. Her scores rose a bit more with a third taking, but she never cracked 700 on the math.
Was it worth the effort? ''I'm still not sure how I feel about using all that time prepping instead of playing the piano, playing with my little brother and sister, or seeing my friends,'' she said.
Admissions officers worry that test prep has become the main junior-year extracurricular activity. Preparing for both tests, they say, may be overkill. They point to parents as the ones cranking up the testing pressure.
''I think the dramatic increase over the last five years in the number of ACT scores we receive comes in conjunction with the increased selectivity,'' said Eric J. Furda, dean of admissions at the University of Pennsylvania. ''More and more parents think they can't just stick with the regular road map for getting into college but need to consider every option that might help them show their child in the best possible light.''
At Shaker Heights High School in Ohio, Eileen Blattner, chairwoman of the guidance department, said that all but seven of the top 10 percent of the graduating class took both the ACT and SAT, and then took their better test once or twice more.
''I say, all the time, 'Don't go crazy,' but particularly for parents who use it as a ring on their finger if their kids get into a high-status school, they're going to have their kids take and take and take the tests.''
If it were up to Robert Schaeffer, public education director of FairTest, an advocacy group critical of standardized testing, neither test would be required. (His organization compiles a list of hundreds of colleges that are test-optional.) But he does see one positive aspect in the rise of the ACT as a state-mandated test.
''In 2013, there were proposals in a number of states to integrate a college admissions test into the state system, and as states come out of the recession, we may see more,'' Mr. Schaeffer said. ''Using a college admissions test as the state's high school test cuts out one test, which responds to growing pressure from teachers that enough is enough.''
Colorado, Hawaii, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota, Tennessee, Utah and Wyoming require students to take the test, and Arkansas pays for the ACT if districts want to offer it. The SAT has only Delaware, Idaho and Maine.
There are clear differences between the tests. The ACT has four long sections, the SAT 10 shorter ones. The ACT has a science section and covers more advanced math, including trigonometry.
''A third of SAT reading is vocabulary, so for students with limited vocabulary, the ACT is better,'' said Sasha DeWind, director at Tutor Associates, based in New York. ''The questions are passage-based, and if you understand the passage, you'll probably get the answer right. And even though the ACT covers harder math, it's more similar to what students have done in school. The SAT is about getting the students to understand what they're being asked.''
Speed is more of an issue on the ACT, she said, with many students finding that they do not have enough time to work through all the questions (the ACT allows only 45 minutes for 75 English questions and 35 minutes for 40 reading questions, while the SAT gives 70 minutes for 67 reading questions and 35 minutes for 49 writing questions).
''Students with learning disabilities who qualify for extra time usually do better taking the ACT, where the extra time really matters,'' she said.
Jonathan Chiu, the national content director of high school programs at the Princeton Review, offers a similar analysis, citing gamesmanship in taking the SAT. ''ACT is more straightforward in their question construction,'' he said. ''In math, they give you the information you need and tell you to solve for x. The SAT would give you the information, then ask for the value of 1/x. But since you're going to have to solve for x to get there, they'll make the value of x a possible answer, knowing your eyes will go straight to the number you've just figured out.''
Mr. Chiu said about 47 percent of the students he works with now take both tests because they ''want to sweeten their college portfolios.''
Just a decade ago, when Megan Fox's twin siblings were getting ready for college, they considered only the SAT. But times have changed, and Ms. Fox took, and retook, the ACT as well as the SAT, ultimately preferring the SAT because it seemed to go faster.
''I like having a lot of smaller SAT sections because it's a lot easier for me to not lose my concentration,'' said Ms. Fox, a rising senior at Jericho High School on Long Island. ''Also, the ACT has a science section and I'm better at English than science. But my scores were about the same.''
In the end, that is true for most students.
''The tests predict college performance equally well, and despite urban legend, most people do about as well on one as on the other,'' said William R. Fitzsimmons, Harvard's dean of admissions and financial aid.
''We see a lot of test results between the ACT, the SAT, the subject tests, Advanced Placement and the International Baccalaureate,'' he added, ''so it doesn't concern us at all whether students send the SAT, the ACT or both.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (ED14
ED15)
GRAPHICS: SAT: Circles represent the number of students in each state who took the SAT in 2012. Green shading denotes states where more students took the SAT than the ACT. (ED14)
ACT: Circles represent the number of students in each state who took the ACT in 2012. Blue shading denotes states where more students took the ACT than the SAT. (ED15)
Top 20: States with the biggest increase in SAT test takers. (ED14)
ACT: Rising In 2012, the ACT overtook the SAT for the first time.
An Elite Sampler: Percent of first-time freshmen submitting test scores. (Sources: Common Data Sets (sampler)
College Board
ACT Inc.) (GRAPHIC BY BEDEL SAGET/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED14-ED15)
 Top 20: States with the biggest increase in ACT test takers. (ED15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (92%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (91%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ACT (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%) MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013



138 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3152 words

HEADLINE: The Next Edition

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On the eve of the 2012 White House Correspondents' Dinner, this city's annual media-politico-Hollywood love fest, Katharine Weymouth convened the sort of Washington power dinner for which her grandmother, Katharine Graham, the pioneering publisher of The Washington Post, was famous.
Around the dining room table in Ms. Weymouth's airy Craftsman home sat a collection of Kay Graham's intimates and descendants: Vernon Jordan, the Clinton consigliere; C. Boyden Gray, counsel to the first President Bush; her oldest son Donald, now chief executive of the company that owns The Post; and Lally Weymouth, Mrs. Graham's daughter and Ms. Weymouth's mother, a globe-trotting journalist and Manhattan socialite known for both her interviews with Middle East dictators and glitzy Fourth of July Hamptons parties.
At the head of the table sat Ms. Weymouth, a Harvard- and Stanford-educated lawyer, single mother of three and, at 47, a fourth-generation publisher of The Post. As her guests chatted, she gently intervened, steering the conversation, salon-style, toward the economy and presidential politics. When it was over, Mrs. Weymouth, not an easy one to please, showered her daughter with praise. 
''It was a big moment,'' said Molly Elkin, Ms. Weymouth's best friend and one of the dinner party guests. ''It was sort of like: 'I've passed the baton, kid. You've learned well, you did a good job.' ''
It was the kind of scene, rife with unspoken family drama, that captivates longtime Washingtonians, who have scrutinized and mythologized the Grahams for decades, much as the British do their royalty. Now, in an exceedingly difficult climate for newspapers, Ms. Weymouth is charged with saving the crown jewels. In a city and a clan filled with expectations for her, that is no easy task.
She is carving her path in a capital, and an industry, vastly changed from the one her grandmother inhabited when big-city newspapers were flush with advertising; The Post helped bring down a president; and for nearly four decades, Mrs. Graham ruled social Washington, feting presidents and prime ministers in her elegant Georgetown manse, dining at the White House with kings and queens.
''There is never going to be another Kay, never in Washington, because the times are different,'' said Sally Quinn, the columnist and the wife of Ben Bradlee, the editor whose partnership with Mrs. Graham was chronicled in ''All The President's Men.'' ''People just don't entertain that way,'' Ms. Quinn said. ''People have kids, they work late. That is not what Katharine wants to do.''
Ms. Weymouth is many things: a working mother and enthusiastic cook; a fearless skier (''She has not met a slope she won't take,'' says Liz Spayd, a former managing editor of The Post); a fitness buff (''She can crunch till the cows come home,'' said Pari Bradlee, a yoga instructor and daughter-in-law to Ben) and, for a while, one of the most sought-after dates in town. (After seeing a local architect, Ms. Weymouth has recently reunited with an old flame, Marty Moe, a former AOL executive.)
She does not take her famous name too seriously, and she likes to have fun. For years, she and Ms. Elkin, a labor lawyer, held a backyard Summer White Party, a spoof on the lavish Black and White Ball hosted in 1966 by Truman Capote to honor Mrs. Graham. Once, at a club in Aspen, Colo., Ms. Weymouth spied Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez watching her dance.
''We are the only people in this club who don't want anything from you,'' she announced. ''Come dance with us.'' He said he would rather watch.
To her 2012 ''grown-up'' dinner, she wore a $35 scoop-neck sleeveless sundress from J. C. Penney, a playful nod to an important Post advertiser whose chief executive at the time, Ron Johnson, was a guest. (She bought J. C. Penney dresses for Ms. Elkin, who wore hers, and Mrs. Weymouth, who wouldn't be caught dead in one.)
Ms. Weymouth's penchant for showing off her athletic figure -- she arrived for a photo shoot in a crisp white sleeveless sheath and four-inch lime green Jimmy Choos -- provokes titters in the newsroom. Then again, she works hard for it; Ms. Elkin said the two spend Sunday mornings doing free weights and ''boy push-ups'' with a personal trainer.
''We smack-talk each other the entire time,'' Ms. Elkin said, ''just like we did when we were 20 years old.''
Quick-witted and no-nonsense, Ms. Weymouth is more like her steely grandmother than her famously demanding and mercurial mother. But since becoming publisher in February 2008, she has had a rocky ride; she has already hired her second editor, and critics lament that she is presiding over a newspaper in retreat.
Ad revenue is declining and average daily circulation was 474,767 in March, down from 673,180 when Ms. Weymouth took over, the Alliance for Audited Media said.
Lacking the magic bullet, she is emphasizing a local mission -- she has reduced staff, shut bureaus in New York, Los Angeles and Chicago and eliminated the well-regarded Book World section on Sunday -- to meet demands by her uncle, and The Post board, that the newspaper turn a profit. (It is, she said, although on Friday the parent company reported a 14 percent drop in second-quarter earnings, compared to a year ago.)
Recently, she upset sentimentalists by putting The Post's 15th Street headquarters up for sale. She says her grandmother always hated the boxy building.
But while Mrs. Graham, who took over the company in 1963 after her husband's suicide (and later became publisher and chief executive), battled lifelong insecurities as she transformed herself from a 1950s housewife to the first woman to be the chief executive officer of a Fortune 500 company (as well as the author of a Pulitzer Prize-winning memoir), not so Ms. Weymouth.
''Katharine is far more comfortable in her own skin than Kay ever was,'' said Robert G. Kaiser, a Post associate editor who has worked there for 50 years. Still, he said: ''She has a burden. Your biggest anxiety, as I know from personal experience with Kay and Don, is: 'Am I going to screw this up? Am I the one who is going to be remembered as the goof-off who couldn't keep it together?' ''
On a steamy summer Friday in July, Ms. Weymouth was curled up on her living room couch, not in fashionable Georgetown but in the practically suburban northwest Washington neighborhood of Chevy Chase, where a Post honor box and fleet of scooters are parked on her front porch. Her golden retriever, Dakota, scampered about, a slobbery tennis ball in its mouth.
If her social life is centered anywhere, it is here, in the house she shares with her children Madeleine, 13, Beckett, 11, and Bridget, 9; an assemblage of pets (three dogs, a guinea pig, a rabbit, two gerbils and a hamster); and a grandmotherly housekeeper, Olinda, whom she ''sort of inherited'' from Mrs. Graham. It is the scene of countless family dinners with her tight circle of friends, including Ms. Elkin, whom she met at Oxford.
Ms. Weymouth is proud of her culinary skills, another break from family tradition. ''My mother doesn't cook, my grandmother didn't cook,'' she said. ''Her kids were raised by servants. They would joke about Sunday night dinner. It was the only night she would cook, and apparently it was just horrendous, like scrambled eggs and Campbell's soup.''
On this afternoon, she had left work early to prepare yellow gazpacho, swordfish kebabs with bacon and cherry tomatoes, and strawberry shortcake for 10 friends and colleagues, including the Post foreign editor, who had returned from Afghanistan. Her daughter Bridget wandered in nibbling a piece of bacon.
Ms. Weymouth frowned (''I need that for dinner!'' she said), but it was a mock frown, a precious moment of normalcy. In April 2011, when Bridget was just shy of her seventh birthday, she fell off a pony, mangling her left arm. She spent 28 days undergoing a dozen operations at Children's Hospital here (and later two more in New York). Ms. Weymouth moved in, conducting business meetings from the child's bedside.
''She was dealing with doctors and surgeons and a child who was in a lot of pain,'' said Kevin Sullivan, a Post reporter and close friend. ''But it wasn't like she flushed her BlackBerry down the toilet. It's not one of those jobs where you can say, 'I'll be gone a couple of weeks.' ''
Moving to Washington to join the family business, Ms. Weymouth said, was never in her ''grand plan.'' Dowdy D.C. seems a world away from her childhood in Manhattan, where she attended the all-girls Brearley School and danced the ''Nutcracker'' while studying, quite seriously, with the School of American Ballet.
Her father, Yann Weymouth, a noted architect (and brother of bassist Tina Weymouth, a founder of the Talking Heads) and mother divorced when Ms. Weymouth and her younger sister Pamela were little. The girls were raised in their mother's orbit on the Upper East Side, in the swirl of New York's literary circles.
It was a childhood spent going out to restaurants (''Grandma disapproved,'' Ms. Weymouth said) and drinking Cokes at Elaine's. They tagged along on Lally's reporting trips -- ''We got to have dinner at the Club d'Alep and meet some of the Syrian aristocracy'' -- discussed fashion with the Vogue editor Diana Vreeland and politics with Alexander Cockburn, the left-wing British journalist and, for a time, Mrs. Weymouth's live-in boyfriend.
''It was rarefied,'' said Diane Paulus, the Broadway director (''Hair,'' ''Pippin''), a close friend since the third grade. ''We were like 8- or 9- or 10-years-old, and there were big grown-up dinner parties and each child would give toasts. Lally was very social, very fashionable, very chic and very vocal in her politics. There were always political discussions, and she expected the children to keep up.''
But at Harvard, and later Oxford, where the future publisher briefly pursued a master's degree in literature -- ''My mother told me I had to go to graduate school,'' Ms. Weymouth explained -- and Stanford Law, she rarely let on who she was.
At Oxford, she drank beer, rowed crew and went through a black leather phase -- ''She scared me, she was so cool,'' Ms. Elkin said -- which turned almost comical on a trip to Israel. During a stopover in Paris to see Mr. Weymouth, who was helping I. M. Pei design the glass pyramid at the Louvre, Ms. Weymouth produced a lengthy itinerary, drafted by her mother, including lunch at the Knesset with Benjamin Netanyahu and dinner at the apartment of Yitzhak and Leah Rabin.
''So the security people are looking at her, with her black eyeliner and her leather jacket and these black earrings, and they're like, 'Who are you?' '' Ms. Elkin said. ''And I'm looking at her and saying: 'Yeah, who are you? And why did you only tell me to bring one dress?' ''
Ms. Weymouth loved the West Coast and hoped to stay there after law school. Her mother had other ideas. ''I thought it was a nice place for a weekend,'' Mrs. Weymouth said in an interview, ''not for a life.''
Instead, she took a job as a litigator with Williams & Connolly, The Post's law firm. Nicole Chapman, her Harvard roommate, said she wanted to ''establish herself as Katharine Weymouth,'' and eventually have children, becoming a ''more there mother'' than her own had been.
To herald the arrival of her oldest grandchild, Mrs. Graham invited Washington's young up-and-comers to a dinner party. George Stephanopoulos, then with the Clinton administration, was there. Mr. Jordan sent his niece, Carolyn Niles, now a close Weymouth friend. ''She really took the time to establish social connections for Katharine,'' Ms. Niles said.
If Kay Graham saw her namesake as her heir apparent, she did not say, though it was apparent they were extremely close. Ann Calfas, a Stanford classmate of Ms. Weymouth, recalls the grandmother's simple delight in driving them to the wedding of a friend. ''She was like, 'Girls, hop in!' ''
Ms. Weymouth has her own fond memories of Friday night ''dates'' when Mrs. Graham needed a party escort, and of quiet dinners in the library of the big house on R Street in Georgetown. ''We would eat on the TV trays and gossip,'' she said, ''and I would tell her about my love life and she'd crack up.''
In 1996, The Post put out a call to Williams & Connolly for temporary legal help. Ms. Weymouth put her hand up, and the job became permanent, leading to stints in the online operation (then a distinct subsidiary) and ultimately as vice president for advertising.
Inside the newsroom, one rap on Ms. Weymouth is that unlike her uncle, she has never been a reporter. Over the years, she said, they talked about it, but she didn't feel qualified. ''I just felt like it would be too weird,'' she said.
If there is one decision Ms. Weymouth has made that has mystified people who know her well, it was her July 1998 marriage to Richard Scully, a Washington lawyer. The wedding at her mother's Southampton home, with 470 A-list guests, was a typical Lally extravaganza. Not only did Oscar de la Renta design the dress, a friend said, he was there to zip it up.
The divorce in 2005 was messy. Court records show they fought over their $70,000 country club membership (Mr. Scully, a golfer, testified that Ms. Weymouth ''doesn't really value it'') and their German shepherd, Maxine, among other things. The court awarded both to Ms. Weymouth.
Last year, Mr. Scully was accused of assaulting his girlfriend. The charges were dropped, but Ms. Weymouth went back to court, asserting that he had stalked her through texts and e-mail and engaged in ''angry and explosive outbursts'' in front of their children. Mr. Scully's lawyer, Mark E. Schamel, called the allegations ''false'' and attributed Ms. Weymouth's assertions to an ''opportunistic pleading'' filed by her divorce lawyer.
Ms. Weymouth and her tight-knit circle prefer not to discuss it. ''The less you say about him, the better,'' Lally Weymouth said.
Friends say Ms. Weymouth has become the ultimate hands-on mother (albeit one with ''one-and-a-half'' nannies, as she describes it), waking up early to make the children a hot breakfast and driving them to school every morning. In a city of nightly parties, she picks and chooses. She is a regular at galas for the Alvin Ailey dance company and the PEN/Faulkner Foundation, because Ms. Elkin is on the board.
But at this year's White House Correspondents' Dinner, Ms. Weymouth was nowhere to be seen. She was home hosting a sleepover; it was Bridget's ninth birthday.
Not long after her grandmother died in 2001, Ms. Weymouth had a dream. In it, they strolled the beach on Martha's Vineyard, where Mrs. Graham owned a home.
''In my dream, I knew she was dead,'' Ms. Weymouth said. ''But she said: 'I'm sorry. I'm sorry I have to leave you.' ''
Ms. Weymouth sees no larger meaning in this -- ''I don't believe in hoo-ha,'' she said -- though as she charts the future of her family's business, she is also immersed in the past. Pictures of her grandmother line the walls of her office, where Mrs. Graham's memoir, tagged with sticky notes for Ms. Weymouth's speeches, is on a shelf. For her first day on the job in February 2008, she wore Mrs. Graham's pearls ''for good luck.''
Her ascension generated the predictable buzz in Washington. People speculated about whether there was competition between Ms. Weymouth and her mother, who, the theory goes, remains miffed that her kid brother inherited the throne. (Not true, both women say.)
Ms. Weymouth took the helm just as the bottom was about to fall out of the economy. The newspaper had already gone through several newsroom buyouts, and she told her uncle she would not take the job unless she could integrate the digital and print operations. ''Don was hellbent against it, and probably still is,'' she said.
Deciding a new editor was needed, she picked Marcus Brauchli, from The Wall Street Journal, the first outsider to edit The Post in four decades. Magazines gushed that she had found her Ben Bradlee, but the relationship soured after news broke that they planned to offer lobbyists the chance to underwrite ''intimate and exclusive'' dinners, for up to $250,000, with Obama officials and Post journalists in Ms. Weymouth's home, a seemingly crass version of Kay Graham's salons.
Ms. Weymouth apologized, but the negative publicity over ''Salon-Gate'' was brutal. Ms. Niles said it was the first time she had seen her ordinarily unflappable friend cry over work.
Within the Graham family, there is great sensitivity to any suggestion of nepotism. Don Graham, 68, praises his niece as ''passionate, hardworking, utterly decent'' and also qualified. As to whether she will inherit his job, he ducks the question: ''I'm not expecting her to go anyplace.''
One hint, Post tea-leaf readers say, can be found in the company garage. For years Kay Graham drove a car with the low-numbered District license plate No. 149, which once belonged to her father, Eugene Meyer, who bought The Post at a bankruptcy sale in 1933. Now it is on Ms. Weymouth's 1991 BMW convertible.
In the meantime, things have been looking up. In January, Ms. Weymouth replaced Mr. Brauchli with Martin Baron, a no-nonsense newsman from The Boston Globe (and, previously, The New York Times), who has won praise for sharpening coverage and boosting morale. Reporters at The Post who routinely question whether their publisher ''gets what we do,'' now wonder if maybe, just maybe, she has found her Ben Bradlee after all.
''She made a brilliant choice,'' Ms. Quinn said, ''and it's working.''
Not everyone is so effusive. The Post recently began charging for online access, but the climate for newspapers in general, and The Post in particular, remains tough. Mr. Baron called Ms. Weymouth ''a realist,'' who ''still wants us to do really great journalism,'' albeit ''within the reality of our economic circumstances.'' But he could not rule out further cuts.
The question, inside and outside the newspaper, is whether Ms. Weymouth can ever be the great and beloved publisher her grandmother was. ''Certainly the genes are there,'' said John Morton, a newspaper industry analyst. ''It's the judgment that has yet to be proved.''
Others seem to have written her off. The Guardian columnist Michael Wolff recently criticized Ms. Weymouth, declaring her ''a disaster in a job for which she had, other than her lineage, no qualifications.''
Ms. Weymouth, mindful of her past yet unsentimental about it, seems unconcerned. Her mother ''tells me she is proud of me,'' she said, and ''if I'm not doing a good job, as much as Don loves me, he will fire me.'' Even her grandmother, she said, grew into greatness, making mistakes along the way.
''I don't feel like my job is to be beloved,'' said Ms. Weymouth, the woman who might be known as the working-mother publisher, with her children at play and her dogs at her feet. ''I certainly hope to be a great publisher, and if people want to love me, too, that's even better.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Katharine Weymouth, in her office at The Washington Post, in which hangs a picture of Katharine Graham, her grandmother (at left), and Lally Weymouth, her mother. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
Ms. Weymouth, above, is dealing with declining circulation at The Post. Far left, Donald Graham and his sister, Lally Weymouth, at their mother's funeral in 2001. Below, Leonard Downie Jr. receiving a hug from Ms. Weymouth as he announced his retirement in 2008
Mr. Graham looks on. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MLADEN ANTONOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
RICH LIPSKI
LINDA DAVIDSON / THE WASHINGTON POST, VIA GETTY IMAGES)
Marcus Brauchli, top, whom Ms. Weymouth hired to replace the retiring Mr. Downie. Martin Baron, above, was hired to replace Mr. Brauchli. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHERINE FREY/THE WASHINGTON POST
 DINA RUDICK/THE BOSTON GLOBE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (ST10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); POLITICS (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); SKIING (60%); LAWYERS (53%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: DONALD E GRAHAM (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (77%); JORDAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013



139 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: The Price Of 'Made In China'

BYLINE: By PETER NAVARRO. 
Peter Navarro, a professor of economics and public policy in the business school at the University of California, Irvine, directed the documentary film ''Death by China.''

 BODY:
HERE is a symbol of China's assault on the American economy: the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, which connects Brooklyn and Staten Island. This landmark, which opened in 1964, is North America's longest suspension bridge. It's also in urgent need of renovation. Unfortunately, $34 million in steel production and fabrication work has been outsourced to China.
How did this happen? The Metropolitan Transportation Authority says a Chinese fabricator was picked because the two American companies approached for the project lacked the manufacturing space, special equipment and financial capacity to do the job. But the United Steelworkers claims it quickly found two other American bridge fabricators, within 100 miles of New York City, that could do the job. 
The real problem with this deal is that it doesn't take into account all of the additional costs that buying ''Made in China'' brings to the American table. In fact, this failure to consider all costs is the same problem we as consumers face every time we choose a Chinese-made product on price alone -- a price that is invariably cheaper.
Consider the safety issue: a scary one, indeed, because China has a very well-deserved reputation for producing inferior and often dangerous products. Such products are as diverse as lead-filled toys, sulfurous drywall, pet food spiked with melamine and heparin tainted with oversulfated chondroitin sulfate.
In the specific case of bridges, six have collapsed across China since July 2011. The official Xinhua news agency has acknowledged that shoddy construction and inferior building materials were contributing factors. There is also a cautionary tale much closer to home.
When California bought Chinese steel to renovate and expand the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, for a project that began in 2002, problems like faulty welds by a Chinese steel fabricator delayed the project for months and led to huge cost overruns. Those delays eroded much of the savings California was banking on when it opted for the ''cheap'' Chinese steel.
There is a second reason not to buy ''Made in China'' products: jobs. The abiding fact is that steel production is heavily subsidized by the Chinese government. These subsidies range from the massive benefits of a manipulated and undervalued currency to the underwriting of the costs of energy, land, loans and water.
Because of China's subsidies -- most of which are arguably illegal under international trade agreements -- its producers are able to dump steel products into America at or below the actual cost of production. This problem is particularly acute now as China is saddled with massive overcapacity in its steel industry.
Of course, every job China gains by dumping steel into American markets is an American job lost. Each steelworker's job in America generates additional jobs in the economy, along with increased tax revenues. With over 20 million Americans now unable to find decent work, we could certainly use those jobs as we repair the Verrazano Bridge.
The M.T.A. has ignored not only the social costs but also the broader impact on the environment and human rights. Chinese steel plants emit significantly more pollution and greenhouse gases per ton of steel produced than plants in the United States. This not only contributes to global warming but also has a direct negative impact on American soil, since an increasing amount of China's pollution is crossing the Pacific Ocean on the jet stream.
Finally, when American companies and government agencies opt for Chinese over American steel, they are tacitly supporting an authoritarian regime that prohibits independent labor unions from organizing -- one of many grim ironies in today's People's Republic. As a result, American workers are forced to compete against Chinese workers who regularly work 12-hour days, six or seven days a week, without adequate safety gear. Both Chinese and American steelworkers wind up as victims.
The bottom line here is this: Buying ''Made in China'' -- whether steel for our bridges or dolls for our children -- entails large costs that most consumers and, sadly, even our leaders don't consider when making purchases. This is hurting our country -- and killing our economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (77%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (77%); STRUCTURAL METAL PRODUCTS MFG (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



140 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week of Aug. 5

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS The market will be closely watching remarks by Federal Reserve policy makers this week for more clues on when the central bank might begin to reduce its bond-buying stimulus policy, despite mixed signals from the job market. The latest job report on Friday showed nonfarm payrolls rose by 162,000 in July, below expectations, but the unemployment rate fell to 7.4 percent, its lowest since December 2008. On Monday, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Richard W. Fisher, is to deliver a speech on the economy. On Tuesday, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Charles L. Evans, is scheduled to speak. 
The Institute of Supply Management releases its nonmanufacturing index (Monday); the Census Bureau releases its report on the balance of trade in June (Tuesday); the Federal Reserve releases its report on consumer credit in June (Wednesday); the Labor Department releases its report on initial claims for unemployment benefits (Thursday); the Census Bureau releases its report on wholesale inventories (Friday).
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report results include HSBC (Monday); Archer Daniels Midland, CVS Caremark, Tenet Healthcare, Molson Coors, Walt Disney, Crdit Agricole, Porsche and Standard Chartered (Tuesday); Carlyle Group, Time Warner, AOL, Tesla Motors and Groupon (Wednesday); Dean Foods, T-Mobile, Apollo Global, Commerzbank, Deutsche Telekom, Nestl and Rio Tinto (Thursday); and J.C. Penney (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CENSUS (88%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); INVENTORIES (74%); WHOLESALERS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (68%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (67%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (63%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (63%); COMMERZBANK AG (58%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (52%); WALT DISNEY CO (52%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (52%); DEAN FOODS CO (51%); TESLA MOTORS INC (51%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (51%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (51%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (51%); GROUPON INC (51%); NESTLE SA (50%); RIO TINTO GROUP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%)

TICKER: CVS (NYSE) (63%); ADM (NYSE) (63%); CZB (LSE) (58%); CBK (FRA) (58%); TAP (NYSE) (52%); DIS (NYSE) (52%); ACA (PAR) (52%); ACA (BIT) (52%); DF (NYSE) (51%); TSLA (NASDAQ) (51%); DTE (FRA) (51%); DTE (BIT) (51%); CG (NASDAQ) (51%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (51%); NESN (SWX) (50%); RIOS (BRU) (50%); RIO (NYSE) (50%); RIO (LSE) (50%); RIO (ASX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (63%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (63%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (63%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (63%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (63%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (63%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (63%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (63%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311512 CREAMERY BUTTER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (51%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (51%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (51%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (50%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (50%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (50%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



141 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Self-Serving War of Words By 2 Giants In Television

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
As consumers in the modern age, we've become accustomed to the brinkmanship between cable distributors and programmers. Most of the time, there is much rattling of sabers and then some accommodation is reached. But sometimes, the war of words turns into an actual war, as it did on Friday when Time Warner Cable announced it would turn off CBS stations for three million of its customers in New York, Los Angeles and Dallas.
It's a significant inconvenience for viewers, but it is not the only irritation in the by-now-familiar rumbles between the companies that own the pipes and the companies that make the programming that goes into those pipes. 
While it may be disappointing that some of us will miss a rerun of ''Dexter'' on Showtime, which is owned by CBS, or the network's summer hit ''Under the Dome,'' what makes it worse is the suggestion by both sides that they are only trying to stick up for us. Blacked-out Time Warner Cable customers were confronted by the following propaganda on their screens:
''The outrageous demands from CBS, the owner of Showtime and TMC, has forced us to remove it from your lineup while we continue to negotiate for fair and reasonable terms.''
''Forced us. . . .'' Really, Time Warner Cable? It seems more like the business negotiation you were having with a supplier did not yield the desired result and you've chosen to turn up the heat.
Not to be outdone, a statement from CBS made sure everyone understood that the network was really doing the people's work in responding to the news:
''CBS remains resolute in the pursuit of fair compensation for our programming and will use the full resources available to us to make sure that Time Warner Cable subscribers are aware of its shortsighted, anti-consumer strategy.''
There's more where that came from -- ''disinformation,'' ''voodoo mathematics'' and ''wildly inflated percentages'' -- but you get the idea.
Here's an idea for both parties: Leave us out of it.
We know that you are fighting over lucre, not our inalienable rights as cable consumers. Pretending that you are fighting on our behalf rather than in the interests of your shareholders and executives is infantilizing and unbecoming. CBS is coming off another record year, Time Warner Cable's stock is storming along, and the fight over retransmission fees is about how the pie is sliced, nothing more.
We have all grown used to the respective parties turning programming on and off as the negotiating table requires, but your bombast is tired, your motives are transparent and it's clear that the public dimensions of this business conflict are far down the list of priorities.
Writing in the comments section accompanying the news in The New York Times, one reader spoke for many of us:
''These games of chicken are depressingly common among cable companies and networks across the country -- made all the more obnoxious by the marketing spin from both sides intended directed at customers they assume to be economic illiterates. They are nothing more than battles between media behemoths over who can stick their hands deeper into the pockets of the remaining viewers beholden to their dying business models.''
So, as you were, guys. Continue to bash in each other's heads all you want. Just don't pretend this is a noble crusade for the consumer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%)

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



142 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.04 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.07 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.02 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
MONDAY
Florida International University, $51.5 million of debt securities. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Minnesota, $200 million of trunk highway general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Minnesota, $265.2 million of various purpose general obligation bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Alabama, $137.7 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Washington State, $532.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Washington State, $275.1 million of motor vehicle fuel tax general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Washington State, $44.7 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
THURSDAY
Nassau County, N.Y., $128.1 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
AHS Hospital Corporation, N.J., $112 million of taxable bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Atlanta Development Authority, $116.1 million of revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Austin Independent School District, Tex., $98.1 million of general revenue bonds.
California Infrastructure and Economic Development Bank, $195.8 million of refunding revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
City of Chicago, O'Hare Airport, $247.3 million of customer facility charge senior lien revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Contra Costa Community College, Calif., $140.5 million of general obligation bonds. Backstrom McCarley Berry.
E-470 Public Highway Authority, Colo., $66.1 million of senior revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission, $265 million of turnpike revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, $600 million of power revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Regents of the University of California Medical Center, $635 million of pooled revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
South Carolina Public Service Authority, $1.2 billion of general revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
South Carolina Public Service Authority, $326 million of revenue obligation bonds. Morgan Stanley.
South Carolina Public Service Authority, $250 million of revenue obligation bonds. Barclays Capital.
State of Ohio, $51 million of educational facility revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Texas Public Finance Authority, $64 million of refunding bonds. Build America Mutual Assurance.
Tufts Medical Center, Mass., $100 million of taxable bonds. Barclays Capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (88%); HEALTH CARE (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); FUEL TAX (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); TAX LAW (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (67%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (66%); HOSPITALS (66%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (65%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



143 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Law Raises Pressure On Public Unions

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
Cities and towns across the country are pushing municipal unions to accept cheaper health benefits in anticipation of a component of the Affordable Care Act that will tax expensive plans starting in 2018.
The so-called Cadillac tax was inserted into the Affordable Care Act at the advice of economists who argued that expensive health insurance with the employee bearing little cost made people insensitive to the cost of care. In public employment, though, where benefits are arrived at through bargaining with powerful unions, switching to cheaper plans will not be easy.
Cities including New York and Boston, and school districts from Westchester County, N.Y., to Orange County, Calif., are warning unions that if they cannot figure out how to rein in health care costs now, the price when the tax goes into effect will be steep, threatening raises and even jobs.
''Every municipality with a generous health care plan is doing the math on this,'' said J. D. Piro, a health care lawyer at a human resources consultancy, Aon Hewitt. 
But some prominent liberals express frustration at seeing the tax used against unions in negotiations.
''I think it was misguided all along,'' Robert B. Reich, the former labor secretary, said in an e-mail. When the law was being written, he said, he worried that the tax was ''a blunt instrument that could too easily become a bargaining chit for cutting back benefits of workers.''
''Apparently, that's what it's become,'' Mr. Reich, who is a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley, said.
Under the tax, plans that cost above a certain threshold in 2018 -- $10,200 annually for individual plans and $27,500 for family plans, with slightly higher cutoffs for retirees and those in high-risk professions like law enforcement -- will be taxed at 40 percent of their costs in excess of the limit. (The thresholds will rise with inflation after 2018.)
State and local governments across the country tend to offer more expensive health plans than private businesses do, and workers often accept smaller wage increases to retain their benefits. Because of this, state and local government employees are expected to be disproportionately represented among those whose plans will be subject to the tax.
New York City expects its two most popular employee health plans to reach taxable Cadillac levels by 2018 or shortly after. This year, the city projects that it will pay a total of $7,128 for individuals and $18,249 for families in its most popular plan, including the costs the city pays into union welfare funds to cover prescription drug benefits. That is above the national average for employer-sponsored health care coverage, which last year was $5,615 for single coverage and $15,745 for family coverage, according to a 2012 Kaiser Family Foundation survey.
The total health care cost for the city's nearly 300,000 municipal employees, pre-Medicare-age retirees and their dependents is expected to approach $8 billion by 2018.
In a letter in April to the head of a labor coalition, Caswell F. Holloway IV, deputy mayor for operations, said the Cadillac tax would cost New York City $22 million in 2018, increasing to $549 million in 2022. (This year, the total city budget, excluding federal and state aid, is just over $50 billion.)
''We know that, on the current trajectory, we're going to be hit with that tax and it would increase very steeply,'' Mr. Holloway said.
So the administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in its final months in office, is asking municipal unions to agree to seek new bids for the city's health insurance business, hoping to lower premiums. It has already achieved one small victory, getting the city's current primary insurer to freeze premiums for one year if it keeps the city's business, the mayor said on Friday.
But lower-cost plans are likely to involve greater out-of-pocket costs and more limited networks of doctors, and so far, the response from labor has been cool.
Ninety-five percent of city employees and 93 percent of retirees are in the two largest plans, which require employees to pay nothing toward their premiums. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation survey, the average contribution by public employees throughout the country is 12 percent for individual plans and 23 percent for family plans.
Harry Nespoli, the chairman of the Municipal Labor Committee, the labor coalition that negotiates with the city on health care, said that he was concerned about the tax, but also that the burden of any cuts would fall largely on workers at the bottom of the pay scale.
Mr. Nespoli said his staff was looking over the request for proposals that the city had written, but he said he was skeptical that the process of seeking new health insurance could be completed before the next administration.
''We're not going to turn around and do a $7 billion contract that affects our members for the next 10 years out without looking at it very carefully,'' he said.
Most of Boston's 20,000 employees are currently in plans that by 2018 would exceed the tax threshold. The city and its unions are preparing a request for proposals for new insurance coverage.
''The tax is going to be a hit, and, if you're not expecting it, it's going to be very shocking,'' said Meredith Weenick, the chief financial officer for Boston.
Jim Finley, the executive director of the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, said he thought it would be hard for Connecticut towns and cities to get their unions to agree to cheaper health care benefits to avoid the tax.
''In the end, it's the taxpayer that's going to bear that burden,'' Mr. Finley said.
In Orange County, Calif., the Newport Mesa Unified School District warned employees during contract negotiations that if the district's health care costs continued rising at the current rate, the district could face a $2.3 million burden from the tax in 2018.
The teachers' union ultimately agreed to accept greater out-of-pocket costs to reduce the increase in its premium this year to 3 percent from 6 percent, but union leaders said they resented the district's using the threat of the tax as a negotiating tactic.
Municipal unions opposed the inclusion of the tax in the health care law, and it was partly their efforts that succeeded in delaying its effective date until 2018.
Steven Kreisberg, the director of collective bargaining and health care policy at the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, said the term Cadillac tax was misleading, because it ''connotes a certain aspect of luxury in these health plans that is just factually incorrect.''
The announcement last month that the Obama administration would delay by a year the mandate that larger employers offer coverage to their workers does not affect the timing of the excise tax, although it may provide encouragement to those who hope that the assessment will be delayed or scrapped altogether.
''Some skeptics, and I'm not one of them, say that that's why the tax was put into effect in 2018 -- that it's far enough away that people can consider whether or not they really want it to go into effect,'' Mr. Piro, the health care lawyer, said.
Jonathan Gruber, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who was a paid consultant to the Obama administration on health care policy, said forcing state and local governments to rein in health care costs was exactly what the tax was intended to do.
''This is intended to shift compensation away from excessively generous health insurance toward wages,'' he said.
In New York, if the Bloomberg administration does not succeed in getting new health insurance before the end of the year, the problem will fall in the lap of the next mayor.
Mr. Holloway said the Bloomberg administration, like many city governments, had long been concerned about the rising cost of health care and its impact on the budget.
But the 2018 tax ''adds a sense of real urgency to getting a handle on this,'' he said.
''We've got to start thinking about this now,'' he continued. ''Why is it that my plan is so expensive per person? What are the ways that we could get that under control?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CITIES (79%); CITY LIFE (79%); FAMILY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); LIBERALISM (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); FOUNDATIONS (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (55%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (84%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



144 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: De Blasio Asks City to Address Its Inequalities

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
In a mayor's race crammed with celebrity razzle-dazzle, historic candidacies and tabloid turns, a gangly liberal from Brooklyn is quietly surging into the top tier of the field by talking about decidedly unglamorous topics: neglected hospitals, a swelling poverty rate and a broken prekindergarten system.
Now that Anthony D. Weiner's campaign has imploded, Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, is drawing new energy and voter interest to a candidacy that presents the most sweeping rejection of what New York City has become in the past 12 years -- a city, he says, that is defined by its yawning inequities.
''We are not, by our nature, an elitist city,'' he told a group of young Democrats a few nights ago at a cramped bar in Brooklyn. ''We are not a city for the chosen few.'' 
It is the campaign season's riskiest calculation: that New Yorkers, who have become comfortably accustomed to the smooth-running, highly efficient apparatus of government under Michael R. Bloomberg, are prepared to embrace a much different agenda for City Hall -- taxing the rich, elevating the poor and rethinking a Manhattan-centric approach to city services.
In a city that is endlessly congratulating itself for its modern renaissance -- record-low crime, unmatched crowds of tourists, streets refashioned in European style -- a day on the campaign trail with Mr. de Blasio is a reminder of unaddressed grievances and glaring disparities.
Describing what he calls a ''tale of two cities,'' rife with inequalities in housing, early childhood education and police tactics, he promised those gathered at the Brooklyn bar that this year's mayoral race was ''going to be a reset moment. A major reset.''
By the time he was finished, well-dressed professionals, gripping glasses of Brooklyn Lager, began to line up to speak with him. Ignoring the next candidate at the microphone, they pledged their liberal loyalties to Mr. de Blasio, who climbed to No. 2 behind Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, in the latest poll by Quinnipiac University of likely Democratic voters.
A young husband and wife, both employees of the city, told of their shock at being unable to afford a home in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, an evaporating refuge for middle-income buyers. ''Now even the gentrifiers are getting priced out by gentrifiers,'' said the husband, Ryan Wanttaja.
Mr. de Blasio's message, despite the excitement it has drawn from liberal luminaries like Alec Baldwin and Howard Dean, has alarmed many business leaders and Bloomberg aides, who see him as lacking a sophisticated understanding of the city's economic success and displaying a navet about how quickly it can unravel.
''He has a very 1960s, 1970s vision for the city,'' said Howard Wolfson, a deputy mayor in the Bloomberg administration, invoking a time when crime was rampant and the economy stalled. ''If you prefer the version of the city that existed then, he's your guy.''
Beyond that, Mr. de Blasio's electoral path remains uncertain in a race against better-known Democrats. William C. Thompson Jr., a former comptroller, holds a natural appeal to the city's fast-growing minority electorate, and Ms. Quinn is trying to capitalize on her history-making chance to become the city's first lesbian mayor. In many ways, Mr. de Blasio, 52, is a man without a built-in voter base.
For much of the spring, he languished in the polls, eclipsed by a camera-hogging Mr. Weiner, whose image as a feisty, outer-borough, anti-establishment figure seemed to drown out his message. ''Along came Anthony,'' Mr. de Blasio recalls, dryly.
Now, Mr. Weiner's scandal has become Mr. de Blasio's salvation. During an interview, he acknowledged that disillusioned supporters of the former congressman were giving momentum to his candidacy.
At the heart of Mr. de Blasio's appeal, according to interviews with his supporters and political team, is a willingness to deliver an unvarnished and unstinting critique of the Bloomberg era in spite of polls that show a majority of New Yorkers believe the city is heading in the right direction under the mayor's leadership.
It is a strategy, he said, that hinges on a pervasive sense that, for all of New York City's bike-path charms and pedestrian plaza allures, its denizens are deeply uneasy about inequalities that remain unchecked by City Hall.
Zoning changes have encouraged sky-piercing condominiums with multimillion-dollar price tags, but Mr. Bloomberg vetoed a bill requiring paid sick leave for working-class New Yorkers. By the city's own measure, 46 percent of residents are poor or near poor, but the mayor scoffed at plans to compel companies that receive city subsidies to pay higher wages. (Mr. de Blasio backs both the wage and paid sick leave measures.)
As he travels the city, Mr. de Blasio can barely contain his fury over what he sees as the central contradiction of the Bloomberg years: a mayor who routinely unleashed the power of government to change New Yorkers' personal behavior repeatedly balked at harnessing it to change their economic circumstances.
''You can see it; there is a bright line,'' Mr. de Blasio said. ''On health and the environment, he is Franklin Roosevelt. On economic justice, he's Adam Smith. He turns into a free marketeer.''
Aides to Mr. Bloomberg point out that the mayor oversaw the construction of about 50,000 units of affordable housing, established a $130 million program to assist young black and Latino men, and built an office that dispenses financial counseling to thousands of low-income residents.
Still, wherever Mr. de Blasio travels these days, resentments toward Mr. Bloomberg's New York tend to tumble out of voters' mouths. A woman stopped to rail against wealthy foreigners who are buying luxury apartments, but rarely inhabiting them. ''We don't want to be like those European cities where rich people fly in once a year and nobody really lives there,'' she told him.
A man who is H.I.V. positive complained to Mr. de Blasio about the absence of a rent cap on housing for AIDS patients, which he said left him homeless.
A student lamented the city's class stratification, saying that the city ''needs a mayor for the 99 percent, not the 1 percent.''
Inside Mr. de Blasio's campaign, aides talk about the need to simultaneously recognize Mr. Bloomberg's triumphs, on issues like the smoking ban, and tap into a widespread desire for a change. ''The remedy verses replica theory,'' as one adviser put it, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the adviser was not authorized to disclose strategy.
Mr. de Blasio's campaign platform is unabashedly interventionist and progressive. His most eye-catching plan would raise the income tax rate to 4.3 percent from 3.87 percent on earnings of over $500,000, to pay for universal access to prekindergarten.
Now, an overcrowded system leaves tens of thousands of lower-income residents without access to full-day programs, setting back the early education of a generation, Mr. de Blasio argues. The campaign says the 11 percent increase in the marginal tax rate would amount to about $2,120 for a family earning $1 million.
In conversations with voters, Mr. de Blasio argues that Ms. Quinn and Mr. Thompson have been either unwilling or unable to sufficiently challenge the legacy of the mayor and the city's corporations over the past decade.
Back at the bar in Brooklyn, Mr. de Blasio's raw indignation won him a modest electoral victory. When a straw poll of those in the room was completed, around 10 p.m., he had soundly defeated his Democratic rivals.
But his determination to emerge as the unrivaled liberal in the race has entailed a moral showmanship that may repel as many voters as it endears. He was arrested a few weeks ago during a sit-in to protest the latest closing of a city hospital.
''That,'' Mr. de Blasio said of his arrest, ''is certainly not in the Michael Bloomberg playbook.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill de Blasio, left, at Memorial Baptist Church in Harlem with his wife, Chirlane McCray, and State Senator Bill Perkins. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CITIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); POOR POPULATION (72%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (72%); CHILDREN (63%); POVERTY RATES (57%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ALEC BALDWIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



145 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Governors Warn Party Members in Congress Not to Shut Government

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MARTIN

 BODY:
MILWAUKEE -- Worried about the potential impact on the fragile economies in their states, Republican governors this weekend warned their counterparts in Congress not to shut down the federal government as part of an effort to block financing for President Obama's health care law.
A range of Republican governors, including some who have refused to implement elements of the health initiative in their states, said in interviews that a standoff in Washington before the new fiscal year this fall could backfire on the party if it is seen as being responsible for bringing the government to a halt.
''I have made the case that Obamacare is not good for the economy, but I have some real concerns about potentially doing something that would have a negative impact on the economy just for the short term -- I think there are other ways to pursue this,'' said Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, who hosted about half of the country's governors here for the summer meeting of the National Governors Association.
Gov. Jack Dalrymple of North Dakota said a government shutdown would invariably be blamed on the legislative branch. 
''I've never felt that shutting down government function is a wise thing to do politically because I think, whoever is involved in it, it's the Congress, regardless of what party they're affiliated with, that will be blamed by the public,'' Mr. Dalrymple said. ''And so, to me, I don't see what it accomplishes.''
Asked if Republicans would pay a political price for a shutdown, Mr. Dalrymple said, ''Yeah, well, you do.''
Gov. Phil Bryant of Mississippi, who refused the law's provision expanding Medicaid in his state, was even more pointed, capturing the tension between the Republican chief executives charged with running their states and the Republican members of Congress who have no such burden.
''Many of the members of this party do not want to fund Obamacare, but what we have to do as governors who work with our legislators is realize the reality of being able to get something passed,'' Mr. Bryant said.
He added that if a measure refusing to finance the health law is not going to get passed, ''How much blood are we going to leave on the floor over this?''
The Republican divide on just how far they should go to torpedo Mr. Obama's signature domestic achievement is increasingly becoming a stand-in for the broader party dispute between purists and pragmatists.
A group of Tea Party-aligned senators -- like the potential presidential prospects Senators Rand Paul of Kentucky and Ted Cruz of Texas -- are pushing their fellow Republicans in Congress to oppose a stopgap measure that would keep the federal government running after Sept. 30 if it includes financing for the Affordable Care Act.
But many Republicans, including high-profile conservatives like Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, fear that Mr. Obama and the Democrats will only benefit in the 2014 elections from a doomed effort to block spending on the new law because Congressional Republicans would bear the blame for the subsequent shutdown of the government.
Because of the very nature of their jobs, Republican governors mainly fall into the pragmatist camp on this issue.
The prospect of even a temporary halt to the federal government, they say, would frighten their state's businesses and disrupt some core services.
''It would affect all 50 of us,'' Mr. Walker said. ''The worst part is the uncertainty. My great fear would be anything that provides great uncertainty for the employers of our country.''
Mr. Bryant's advice to Congressional Republicans: ''Take the battle to the floor, debate it, do all that you can to get that bill passed because we believe in eliminating Obamacare completely, that's why we didn't expand it. But at some point perhaps we have to realize that the federal government -- because of the support of our military, support of our public safety, our infrastructure -- we have to have a budget.''
The possibility of a government shutdown and fears of the uncertainty it may bring was raised by a pair of governors -- Neil Abercrombie of Hawaii, a Democrat, and Mary Fallin of Oklahoma, a Republican -- during one of the public sessions during the weekend.
But the topic was brought up more in informal conversations among the governors rather than in the regular, more scripted forums, one governor said.
As the governors tend to do when they come together for such gatherings, many of those here for a four-day mix of policy talk, batting practice at Miller Park and Harley-Davidson rides were quick to contrast their jobs with those in Congress.
Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, a Republican who also served four terms as governor in the 1980s and 1990s, pointed to the compromise he reached with his legislature on how to broaden health care coverage for low-income residents without simply accepting the Medicaid expansion that is part of the federal health law. Such efforts on the state level, he said, are what is needed -- not more bitter fights in Washington.
''It just causes too much disruption, and people don't understand,'' Mr. Branstad said about using the threat of a government shutdown as leverage. ''People want problems solved. They're tired of the gridlock. They're tired of the fighting.''
Ms. Fallin, who was in Congress before becoming governor and is the new chairwoman of the National Governors Association, said she was deeply concerned about federal spending.
But she said she would like to see Washington find ways to go about addressing that issue without shutting down the government.
''They need to buckle down, work hard, find consensus on things and certainly find ways of reducing our deficit,'' said Ms. Fallin, who rejected the Medicaid expansion in Oklahoma and declined to set up a state health insurance marketplace.
At least one Republican governor here, though, voiced support for the effort to tie spending on the health care law to the broader measure that finances the federal government: Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, the head of the Republican Governors Association and a potential 2016 presidential candidate who most likely does not want to cede any space to his right.
''We absolutely should use whatever opportunity and tactic we can to repeal and replace Obamacare,'' said Mr. Jindal, deeming the prospect of a shutdown nothing more than ''a false threat'' and ''scare tactics'' from Mr. Obama's administration.
To the Democratic governors here, the prospect of a shutdown is frightening from a governing perspective.
But politically, they already seem to have their message down should the federal government close this fall.
''People are getting very tired of politicians who appear to only want to shut things down and not build things up,'' said Gov. Jack Markell of Delaware, a Democrat, who with a wry grin added of Republicans: ''Far be it from me to give them advice, but it can't be helpful to them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican, and Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut, a Democrat, during a session at the summer meeting of the National Governors Association in Milwaukee on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MORRY GASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MEDICAID (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

PERSON: TED CRUZ (79%); PHIL BRYANT (79%); SCOTT WALKER (59%); DANNEL MALLOY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JAN BREWER (58%); RAND PAUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



146 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Budget Fight Devolves to a Game of Chicken

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG VIEW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Democrats and Republicans, bracing for a game of chicken over a possible government shutdown and a debt-ceiling default, should rewatch the 1955 movie ''Rebel Without a Cause,'' starring the American icon James Dean.
A thug challenges Dean's character to race their stolen cars toward an abyss. The first driver who jumps out of his speeding vehicle is a coward. Dean leaps just as his car is about to go over the cliff; the other guy's leather jacket gets ensnared in the door handle, and he plunges into the void. 
In Washington, both sides anticipate a huge fight this autumn over the budget, the mandatory spending cuts under the so-called sequestration and the debt ceiling. They are expecting the other guy to jump first.
House Republicans think President Barack Obama is bluffing when he says he will not negotiate on lifting the debt ceiling. They contend that the president's position is not nearly as strong as it was at the end of last year, when the tax cuts enacted under President George W. Bush were about to expire. Mr. Obama, who had lots of leverage then, got half a loaf.
The White House recalls Speaker John A. Boehner's discomfort with the game House Republicans played with the debt ceiling in 2011, which hurt both the economy and their party. Privately, they say that Mr. Boehner does not wish to wage that fight again when the limit is reached late this year and that his demand that any increase in the debt ceiling be matched by comparable spending reductions is a bluff. That position is unacceptable to Mr. Obama and Democrats.
The stakes are high: a miscalculation could send shock waves through the U.S. economy.
The probability is that any budget deadlock, which could force a government shutdown and action on the much-discredited cuts in defense and nondefense discretionary spending, will be postponed beyond the Oct. 1 deadline. Then, everything, perhaps including any tax overhaul initiative, will be thrown in with the debt-ceiling increase sometime in November.
There were plenty of private partisan and bipartisan conversations before the congressional recess, which began Friday. Some of these discussions will continue this month. No one is confident of the path, much less the outcome.
The early budgetary battle lines for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 have been drawn, and the two sides are almost $100 billion apart. Neither starts from a position of strength. The White House has made little progress on its insistence on additional revenue. House Republicans had to pull a spending bill containing big cuts from the floor last week for lack of votes. It is relatively easy for most Republicans to support a scaled-back budget concept; actually cutting programs is tougher.
Much of the negotiations when Congress gets back in September are likely to focus on the automatic spending cuts, which were adopted only because any agreement on regular spending measures collapsed. The plan is indiscriminate, makes for poor policy and is ridiculed by most members of Congress, from defense hawks to domestic policy progressives. It's just that they cannot agree on a replacement, as House Republicans continue to pretend that the Pentagon will largely be spared.
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew made clear a week ago that any changes to the sequestration had to equally affect nondefense discretionary cuts as well as defense. There are a number of senators, from both parties, who would support such a deal.
There is a rational replacement that makes for better economic and fiscal policy and addresses top political concerns -- for the Democrats, the necessity of more revenue, and for the Republicans, to start addressing entitlements. The cuts in discretionary domestic programs -- which as a percentage of the economy are headed to the lowest level since Dwight D. Eisenhower was president -- would be replaced with cuts in entitlements, principally health care, that the White House would accept. Higher revenue would substitute for the defense cuts.
Given the political realities, that solution probably could not fly for more than a year. At this stage, it is doubtful even it could get through the House.
The cherished, elusive grand bargain -- significant cutbacks in entitlements and more revenue, coupled with short-term stimulus spending on infrastructure and other programs -- would bolster the economy, increase market confidence and perhaps reduce some of the political pettiness that engulfs Washington. The partisan-inspired paralysis makes that a nonstarter.
The best hope is for a mini-bargain, building on a sequestration deal that itself may not occur. There is little good faith on either side. Republicans seem convinced that Mr. Obama's no-negotiations stance on the debt ceiling amounts to posturing. He has backed down before and, in a view shared by a number of Democrats, tough negotiating is not this White House's strong suit.
The Republican blustering is more striking. Privately, some have suggested giving Mr. Obama a multiyear extension of the debt ceiling in return for changes in Medicare, including raising the eligibility age. Mr. Boehner continues to advance the notion that any increase in the debt ceiling must be matched dollar-for-dollar with spending reductions.
The biggest fraud is led by a few right-wingers in the Senate, principally Ted Cruz of Texas, who insist that an increase in the debt ceiling must be accompanied by the defunding of Mr. Obama's health-care measure. Mr. Cruz plans to barnstorm the country for 10 days this month to rally the faithful -- and collect names and maybe money for any presidential hopes -- to this illusory demand.
None of this is serious.
There are two possible outcomes. A one-year arrangement containing small, cosmetic changes that postpones bigger decisions. The other is going over the cliff,  la ''Rebel Without a Cause.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); TAX REFORM (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



147 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Iranian President Is Sworn In and Presents a New Cabinet of Familiar Faces

BYLINE: By THOMAS ERDBRINK

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- Hassan Rouhani was sworn in as Iran's president during a ceremony in Parliament on Sunday, after which he presented a new cabinet dominated by technocrats who had previously served under a moderate former president, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani.
The cabinet must still be confirmed by Parliament. 
''My government will be one of foresight and hope,'' Mr. Rouhani said in a speech after his swearing-in ceremony, adding that his election showed that the Iranian people want ''to live free,'' and ''are longing for change and progress, they want relief from poverty and discrimination.''
He faces a mountain of problems, including rampant inflation, diminishing revenues and foreign reserves, possible food shortages and new United States sanctions over the country's nuclear program.
By choosing to stock his cabinet with old hands from the Rafsanjani years, Mr. Rouhani appeared to be looking to a more moderate past to solve current problems and plan for the future, analysts said. And he showed that the former president would wield considerable influence in the new government.
''Most key ministers have served under Hashemi-Rafsanjani,'' said Nader Karimi Joni, a political analyst who has been critical of Iran's leaders. ''This shows his clear involvement.''
Mr. Rafsanjani, 78, wanted to run for a new term as president this year, but he was barred by the country's Guardian Council, which said he was too old.
During the ceremony on Sunday, he sat smiling next to the incoming president.
Among the Rafsanjani protgs is the proposed minister of oil, Bijan Namdar Zangeneh, who is widely regarded as the modernizer of Iran's oil industry, having invited in Western companies to help carry out the work. The incoming minister of housing, Abbas Akhondi, held the same position during Mr. Rafsanjani's tenure, from 1989 to 1997.
The proposed head of the influential Ministry of Industries and Mines, Mohammad Reza Nematzadeh, is a former member of the Revolutionary Guards who is now strictly opposed to involvement by that organization in the economy.
Mr. Rouhani's choice for foreign minister, Javad Zarif, raised the most eyebrows. Mr. Zarif, 53, has lived half his life in the United States, is a fluent English speaker and served from 2002 to 2007 as Iran's ambassador to the United Nations. He was also part of Mr. Rouhani's nuclear negotiating team, which in 2003 struck a deal with European nations to temporarily suspend uranium enrichment.
''These appointments mean Mr. Rouhani's cabinet is technocrat-dominated and geared towards changing domestic and international affairs, like what we saw during Mr. Rafsanjani's time,'' Mr. Joni said.
Hinting that he was open to talks with the West, Mr. Rouhani emphasized that sanctions and even war would not change the minds of Iran's leaders regarding the nuclear program.
''To have interactions with Iran, there should be talks based on an equal position, building mutual trust and respect, and reducing enmity,'' Mr. Rouhani said. Speaking to the West, he added, ''I hereby say this explicitly, that if you expect a suitable response, you should talk to Iran with respect, not the language of sanctions.'' His words prompted loud applause from members of Parliament and other officials.
Officials close to the new president are saying that they want to see a first-step gesture from the United States, noting that Mr. Rouhani's landslide victory has given him a broad mandate to negotiate with the West.
The White House released a statement on Sunday hailing the arrival of Mr. Rouhani, but it made no mention of concessions.
''The inauguration of President Rouhani presents an opportunity for Iran to act quickly to resolve the international community's deep concerns over Iran's nuclear program,'' the statement read. ''Should this new government choose to engage substantively and seriously to meet its international obligations and find a peaceful solution to this issue, it will find a willing partner in the United States.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iran's new president, Hassan Rouhani, right, before he was sworn in on Sunday, with Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATTA KENARE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); POLITICS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); INFLATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (54%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (93%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



148 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Colleges Help Ithaca Thrive In a Region Of Struggles

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
ITHACA, N.Y. -- In many ways, this city is not so special. It has a nice lake, some attractive houses with lawns, and a couple of colleges. But many places in upstate New York have lakes and lawns and places of high learning.
What most sets this city of 30,000 apart from many of its neighbors these days is what is absent: fear for its future.
Led by a young mayor with an inspiring back story and an idealist's approach -- he talks about sidewalks in philosophical terms -- Ithaca is the upstate exception: a successful liberal enclave in a largely conservative region troubled by unemployment woes, declining or stagnant population, and post-Detroit talk of bankruptcy.
''It's like a little San Francisco,'' Nicole Roulstin, 32, an Ithaca resident, said recently, ''or the Berkeley of the East.'' 
Much of that optimism comes from a reciprocal relationship with two institutions -- Cornell University and, to a lesser degree, Ithaca College -- which have poured hundreds of millions of dollars into the economy and created thousands of jobs for everyone from professors to landscapers, and also fostered new companies. Ithaca and its home county, Tompkins, regularly post the lowest unemployment rate in the state. In June, Ithaca's was 5.7 percent, tied with another college city, Saratoga Springs, where a racetrack drives an annual summer boom.
Ithaca's model of education as an economic engine is one that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has made a priority this year as a strategy for all of upstate, where there are dozens of universities. In June, he signed a bill that would allow State University of New York branches and some private schools to offer tax-free zones for new businesses that open on or adjacent to campuses.
Ithaca's mayor, Svante L. Myrick, who was invited to speak alongside the governor when he promoted the plan in May, playfully challenged other leaders of Ivy League cities in the Northeast to come to his. ''And I'll show you how we built in Ithaca the lowest unemployment rate in the state,'' he said, adding that the city had been successful ''because our universities have partnered with our private industries,'' and did not just rely on businesses selling ''sandwiches and beds'' to visitors and students.
Ithaca has used the deep intellectual bench of its neighboring colleges and community entrepreneurs to help create everything from skateboard companies to high-tech start-ups, an approach to job creation that has attracted the admiration of nearby municipalities.
''They've been able to cross over the barrier from nonprofit and transition into a for-profit entrepreneurial model, which is not an easy task,'' said Stephanie A. Miner, the mayor of Syracuse, about 45 miles to the north. ''We've done it as well, but we don't have the kind of penetration that Ithaca has.''
Institutional support for new business, Ms. Miner added, also attracts investors unconnected to the schools. ''When you look at the venture capitalists that are in upstate New York or that are investing in upstate New York, always first, in the areas that that money is going to, is Ithaca,'' she said.
Blessed with physical beauty, vineyards and cultural attractions, the city and the county have also benefited from ample tourism, something the governor has promoted as central to any upstate renaissance. Ithaca's population basically doubles during the school year, and the city has many residents whose own college days are not far behind them; the median age in the city's core and immediate suburbs is 26 -- the same age as Mr. Myrick.
Jean McPheeters, president of the Tompkins County Chamber of Commerce, said Mr. Myrick had impressed her by meeting with city and county leaders the first week that he took office in January 2012, and by pushing for efforts to change zoning to allow for greater building heights. ''Svante has been a great friend to the business community,'' she said.
A self-described ''pragmatic progressive,'' Mr. Myrick has been active in reorganizing the police force, restructuring city government and attracting $200 million in new development to the city, including a multimillion-dollar overhaul of its central commons.
At the same time, he fervently preaches the benefits of car sharing, locally grown food and affordable housing. He shares a house with four roommates near Cornell and takes the bus to City Hall downtown, where tattoo parlors, coffee shops and used-record stores are neighbors to upscale restaurants and shops.
''This is the classic place where you have baristas with Ph.D.'s,'' said Gary Ferguson, executive director of the Downtown Ithaca Alliance, a nonprofit development group. ''You have people with incredible skill sets who choose to remain here.''
Sure enough, Thomas R. Rochon, president of Ithaca College, said his school often employs graduates from its bigger, friendly rival. ''Some fraction of our faculty are from Cornell,'' he said. His college, which has an enrollment of about 6,750, has also poured big money into local construction, including a new $65 million athletics center that opened in 2011.
About half the city's residents over age 25 have at least a bachelor's degree, said Robert M. Simpson, the president of the CenterState Corporation for Economic Opportunity, a 12-county economic development organization. He added that Cornell and the city as a whole had been ''increasingly successful in translating that into patents, license income and start-ups,'' which in turn create jobs for local residents.
Mary G. Opperman, vice president for human resources and safety services at Cornell, said the university has two centers devoted to fostering businesses: the Center for Technology Enterprise and Commercialization, which manages licenses for a range of tech and other inventions, and the Kevin M. McGovern Family Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences. But the school also plans to work more directly with the city itself and to open a business incubator downtown this year.
''Our success is very much tied to the success of Ithaca,'' Ms. Opperman said.
Soft-spoken and slyly funny, Mr. Myrick is a striking success story. Living in the tiny town of Earlville, N.Y., he overcame a childhood that included stints living in shelters and sometimes sleeping in a family car. His father struggled with drug abuse, and his mother raised him and his three siblings on minimum-wage jobs, with help from his grandparents.
Mr. Myrick, whose mother is white and whose father is African-American, said he vividly remembers reading about Barack Obama as a teenager.
''I thought, 'Holy moly,''' Mr. Myrick said. ''Here's this guy, he's mixed race, he's got a funny name, he's just like me. And it made me think I could go to a good school. I could do something.''
Still, he said he was thrilled when Cornell accepted him -- ''I was a middling student,'' he recalled, ''with very good standardized scores'' -- and began to get involved in the community shortly after coming to Ithaca in 2005, eventually getting elected to the City Council in 2007 at age 20. In 2011, he was persuaded to run for mayor. His friend and fellow Cornell alumnus, Nathan I. Shinagawa, was chairman of his campaign. (He is one of Mr. Myrick's roommates.)
Housing, in fact, is an issue that Mr. Myrick said Ithaca still needs to address. He also worries about crime -- ''When you're the mayor, any crime is too much crime'' -- and budget issues. ''There's still not enough money,'' he said.
Then, too, is the issue of the city's sidewalks, which have long been paid for by owners with adjacent property. Mr. Myrick has instead proposed a system to maintain sidewalks that would be paid for by all property owners, something he said that speaks to the larger issue of social responsibility. ''And once we figure out what the responsibility is,'' he said, ''how can we fairly mete out justice?''
Such high-mindedness -- and Ithaca's seemingly steady prosperity through hard times -- has attracted attention to Mr. Myrick's own political future, something he deflects, saying that keeping Ithaca running is his only job.
''I still to this day don't know what I'm going to do when I grow up,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Svante L. Myrick, the mayor of Ithaca, N.Y, says his city, in a region troubled by employment woes, is thriving ''because our universities have partnered with our private industries.'' Ithaca and its home county, Tompkins, regularly post the lowest unemployment rate in the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); LIBERALISM (70%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); STARTUPS (66%); LEGISLATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



149 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: The Referendum

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
In New York's search for a mayor to succeed Michael Bloomberg, you'd think Bill de Blasio would loom large, and not just because he's 6-foot-5. He is policy-smart, progressive, politically savvy and untouched by scandal. He's connected. (He ran Hillary Clinton's first Senate campaign.) He holds a citywide job, public advocate, that, while not very demanding, is nominally next in line to the mayor. From that post he has been none-too-subtly campaigning for the top job since 2010. As the city emerges from 20 years of Republican and independent leadership and shows its true colors -- which are, by most indications, deep blue -- candidates don't come much bluer than Bill de Blasio. 
Until last week, though, de Blasio's poll numbers were stalled in the low teens. Even after Anthony Weiner joined the walking dead and de Blasio's numbers blipped upward, he tended to be a subordinate clause in the news coverage. When I asked various New York political sages why his campaign wasn't getting more traction, I heard two answers. One is: ''wrong narrative.'' In an electorate that is ready for some change, the critics theorized, de Blasio was offering too much change. The other was: ''no base.'' The contenders include a woman who is proudly gay (Christine Quinn, the City Council speaker and front-runner), an African-American who has started waving the Trayvon Martin flag (Bill Thompson, who came within five points of Bloomberg in 2009) and a Taiwanese-American immigrant (John Liu, the city comptroller) who claims to have a lock on Asian New York. In that company, some suggested, a white guy, even a white guy whose wife of almost 20 years is African-American, is at a disadvantage. And, although he comes from Brooklyn and has an Italian surname, he is too liberal to be the standard-bearer of the outer-borough white ethnics.
The ''no base'' argument is probably too glib. Identity politics still plays its part in New York, but it is not so obvious or so predictable. New York's minorities -- and the city is nothing but minorities -- are hardly monoliths. De Blasio has the endorsement of a union, the health care workers of 1199, with a large black membership and a potent vote-wrangling reputation. Black neighborhoods went strongly for Thompson in the 2009 mayor's race, but they also went strongly for de Blasio as public advocate. In any case, it's too early to read much into polls. As recently as last week the Quinnipiac survey showed the leading candidate among black voters was still Anthony Weiner.
But the sages are onto something when they suggest that the election, and de Blasio's campaign in particular, is a test of the city's appetite for change. It is in a sense a referendum on the Bloomberg years.
The city has now had 20 straight years of non-Democratic mayors who arose in crisis. Rudy Giuliani was the answer to a crescendo of crime, Michael Bloomberg won thanks in part to 9/11 (and thanks in part to $74 million of his own money). This year's election finds the city relatively healthy: crime is down, the economy is growing, the public schools are a little better and a lot more accountable. Whatever you think of Bloomberg's legacy (I've already rendered my verdict), he will not leave behind a city looking for a savior.
What exactly is the city looking for? A recent Times poll asked that question and summed up the answer in a word: empathy. Voters generally approve of Bloomberg's performance, a bare majority thinks the city is ''going in the right direction,'' but by a large margin they want the next mayor to be someone who ''understands the needs and problems of people like you.''
Quinn, Thompson and the most likely Republican nominee, former Metropolitan Transportation Authority chairman Joseph Lhota, have interpreted this to mean voters want a mayor whose style is more embracing and whose policies are somewhat more attentive to New Yorkers without large disposable income. They are more likely to talk of building on Bloomberg's record rather than repudiating it.
''I think the job of the next mayor is to take the success and expand it,'' Quinn told me.
De Blasio is the candidate most emphatic about turning away from the Bloomberg model. His slogan is that New York has become ''a tale of two cities,'' the city of millionaires and the city of those who are either in poverty or sliding in that direction. (John Liu is even more vociferous about this divide, preferring a metaphor of feudal lords and serfs. But so far he languishes in single digits and his campaign is dogged by a fund-raising scandal.) De Blasio rather grudgingly concedes a few Bloomberg successes -- ''in his first term'' -- but he says voters feel ''a profound sense of economic insecurity.''
''They want a serious, substantive reset,'' he told me. ''Because they feel the city becoming more and more exclusive and harder to be a part of.''
The de Blasio mayoralty, he says, will begin with an out-of-the-gate agenda that can fairly be described as a partial repeal of Bloombergism: a new tax on the city's wealthy, a plan for universal preschool and expanded after-school, a more generous guarantee of paid sick days for most workers in the city, a new police commissioner and stricter controls on the police tactic of stop-and-frisk. Within his first year, he promises to negotiate new contracts with the city's 300,000 workers, all of which Bloomberg has allowed to lapse. De Blasio charges that Bloomberg tended to strike poses of fiscal prudence and cast the unions as incorrigible. He intimates that, as a pure liberal, he is positioned to negotiate a Nixon-to-China grand bargain that puts the cost of public employee benefits on a sustainable footing.
De Blasio has attempted to brand Quinn, and to a lesser extent Thompson, as candidates of the status quo. He misses no opportunity to remind voters that Quinn frog-marched the City Council into changing the term-limits law at Bloomberg's behest.
''You could charitably say it's not quite Bloomberg Four,'' he said of a potential Quinn administration. ''But, both in the fact that she has been his chief political ally -- she literally single-handedly gave him his third term -- and that you can find precious little disagreement, most of it only in the last few months, she has been an adjunct of the Bloomberg administration.'' His critique verges on caricature, but it is certainly true that Quinn, who entered politics as a liberal activist, has evolved during the Bloomberg years into an art-of-the-possible pragmatist.
De Blasio dismisses Thompson for ''sounding like a change agent but not supporting the things that might actually lead to change.''
As voters begin to stir from the summer slumber and focus on the Sept. 10 primary, Quinn and Thompson have both tried to recalibrate their relationship to Bloomberg's legacy -- establishing their independence without completely alienating constituencies (first and foremost business) that worry about a turn to profligacy, political correctness and patronage. A union supporting Quinn has begun doing robocalls to voters that stress the times her Council stood up to the mayor. Thompson, working the black church circuit, has tried to make stop-and-frisk his distancing issue.
It is still the early days, as these things go. There are debates to be held, ads to be aired, get-out-the-vote drives to be mobilized, charisma to be tested, personalities to be scrutinized: is Quinn too mercurial? Is de Blasio too wonky? Is Thompson too boring? In the end, the few hundred thousand New Yorkers who take the trouble to show up in nonpresidential years will pick a mayor. They will also be deciding whether the past 12 years represent the city's new course, or just a long detour.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); RACE & RACISM (86%); ASIAN AMERICANS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); REFERENDUMS (70%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



150 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Against Reality

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Last week House Republicans voted for the 40th time to repeal Obamacare. Like the previous 39 votes, this action will have no effect whatsoever. But it was a stand-in for what Republicans really want to do: repeal reality, and the laws of arithmetic in particular. The sad truth is that the modern G.O.P. is lost in fantasy, unable to participate in actual governing.
Just to be clear, I'm not talking about policy substance. I may believe that Republicans have their priorities all wrong, but that's not the issue here. Instead, I'm talking about their apparent inability to accept very basic reality constraints, like the fact that you can't cut overall spending without cutting spending on particular programs, or the fact that voting to repeal legislation doesn't change the law when the other party controls the Senate and the White House. 
Am I exaggerating? Consider what went down in Congress last week.
First, House leaders had to cancel planned voting on a transportation bill, because not enough representatives were willing to vote for the bill's steep spending cuts. Now, just a few months ago House Republicans approved an extreme austerity budget, mandating severe overall cuts in federal spending -- and each specific bill will have to involve large cuts in order to meet that target. But it turned out that a significant number of representatives, while willing to vote for huge spending cuts as long as there weren't any specifics, balked at the details. Don't cut you, don't cut me, cut that fellow behind the tree.
Then House leaders announced plans to hold a vote cutting spending on food stamps in half -- a demand that is likely to sink the already struggling effort to agree with the Senate on a farm bill.
Then they held the pointless vote on Obamacare, apparently just to make themselves feel better. (It's curious how comforting they find the idea of denying health care to millions of Americans.) And then they went home for recess, even though the end of the fiscal year is looming and hardly any of the legislation needed to run the federal government has passed.
In other words, Republicans, confronted with the responsibilities of governing, essentially threw a tantrum, then ran off to sulk.
How did the G.O.P. get to this point? On budget issues, the proximate source of the party's troubles lies in the decision to turn the formulation of fiscal policy over to a con man. Representative Paul Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, has always been a magic-asterisk kind of guy -- someone who makes big claims about having a plan to slash deficits but refuses to spell out any of the all-important details. Back in 2011 the Congressional Budget Office, in evaluating one of Mr. Ryan's plans, came close to open sarcasm; it described the extreme spending cuts Mr. Ryan was assuming, then remarked, tersely, ''No proposals were specified that would generate that path.''
What's happening now is that the G.O.P. is trying to convert Mr. Ryan's big talk into actual legislation -- and is finding, unsurprisingly, that it can't be done. Yet Republicans aren't willing to face up to that reality. Instead, they're just running away.
When it comes to fiscal policy, then, Republicans have fallen victim to their own con game. And I would argue that something similar explains how the party lost its way, not just on fiscal policy, but on everything.
Think of it this way: For a long time the Republican establishment got its way by playing a con game with the party's base. Voters would be mobilized as soldiers in an ideological crusade, fired up by warnings that liberals were going to turn the country over to gay married terrorists, not to mention taking your hard-earned dollars and giving them to Those People. Then, once the election was over, the establishment would get on with its real priorities -- deregulation and lower taxes on the wealthy.
At this point, however, the establishment has lost control. Meanwhile, base voters actually believe the stories they were told -- for example, that the government is spending vast sums on things that are a complete waste or at any rate don't do anything for people like them. (Don't let the government get its hands on Medicare!) And the party establishment can't get the base to accept fiscal or political reality without, in effect, admitting to those base voters that they were lied to.
The result is what we see now in the House: a party that, as I said, seems unable to participate in even the most basic processes of governing.
What makes this frightening is that Republicans do, in fact, have a majority in the House, so America can't be governed at all unless a sufficient number of those House Republicans are willing to face reality. And that quorum of reasonable Republicans may not exist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (68%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



151 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: The Long Stall

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
After last week's barrage of economic data, the best response anyone could muster was that conditions were likely to improve in the rest of the year. But even that looks like wishful thinking. Worse, though corrective government action is crucial, sound policy cures have not been forthcoming. 
The latest quarterly report on economic growth showed real G.D.P. up only 1.4 percent over the past year, a marked slowdown from year-over-year growth rates posted in 2012. Much of the weakening can be attributed to self-imposed wounds, including the fiscal-cliff showdown at the end of last year and this year's payroll tax increase and automatic budget cuts, whose effects now appear likely to carry into the second half of the year.
The latest jobs report indicates that Americans do not have the requisite economic security to absorb those imminent blows, let alone other inevitable setbacks, including another possible standoff over the nation's debt limit. The unemployment rate ticked down in July to 7.4 percent, from 7.6 percent in June. But some of that was because of people dropping out of the work force; and to the extent that it was from new hiring, more than half of the 162,000 jobs added in July were in the low-wage areas of retail and restaurants, a stark illustration of the nation's shift to lower-quality jobs and lower wages.
Against that backdrop, consumers will not be able to propel the economy forward. Recent headline numbers on vehicle sales, for example, were bolstered by light truck sales attributable to the housing rebound; car sales, in contrast, dropped. Nor will the housing rebound alone spur the economy, because a strong housing market requires a strong job market, which has yet to materialize.
In the absence of help from Congress on job creation, President Obama recently pledged to use ''whatever executive authority I have to help the middle class.'' One place he could start is by revamping the treatment of hourly employees by private-sector federal contractors. Recent research shows that many are paid low wages that force them onto food stamps and other public assistance.
Mr. Obama wants to rebuild the economy from the middle out. But what is just as urgently required is to rebuild it from the bottom up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); DEBT CEILING (67%); RESTAURANTS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); BUDGET CUTS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



152 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Boston Globe Is Another Metro Paper Gone Local

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY and DAVID CARR; Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It was a coup for local newspaper owners when the news was announced early Saturday morning: John W. Henry, the owner of the Boston Red Sox, would purchase The Boston Globe, along with The Worcester Telegram & Gazette and other properties, from The New York Times Company for $70 million in cash in a deal that will close in a month or two. Despite the lateness of the hour, Mr. Henry, a Boston-area resident, did not contain his enthusiasm about the purchase.
''This is a thriving, dynamic region that needs a strong, sustainable Boston Globe playing an integral role in the community's long-term future,'' Mr. Henry said in a statement.
Mr. Henry benefited in the deal from the fact that the Times Company has agreed to hold onto the group's pension obligation. While it remains unclear, including to some analysts, how much exactly that is, as of the end of 2012, the Times Company's overall pension obligation was around $2 billion and was underfunded by $400 million. The company declined to comment on the pension obligations. The Times Company presently has 5,363 employees, of whom 1,849 are employed by the New England Media Group. 
The sale continues a recent trend in the struggling newspaper industry: newspapers being returned to local owners, often at bargain-basement prices. When the possibility that the Tribune Company would sell its newspapers emerged this year, both The Los Angeles Times and The Baltimore Sun quickly attracted interested local buyers. Rick Edmonds, a media business analyst for the Poynter Institute, said the trend was driven by locals wanting to give back to their hometowns and also by the economic value of the buildings that house the newspapers.
''There's a sort of pride of community,'' Mr. Edmonds said. ''If it doesn't work out, the value of the paper is equivalent to the value of the real estate.''
But turning around a newspaper in the current environment takes more than financial skill and renewed focus.
''People who have had success with turnaround in other businesses confront a different challenge in metro newspapers,'' said Ken Doctor, an analyst at Outsell. ''It is not just a newspaper that is distressed, it is the entire industry, and no one has had much success in making it work.''
The reaction to the sale around Boston was cautiously optimistic. Gov. Deval L. Patrick of Massachusetts and Mayor Thomas M. Menino both welcomed the deal. In a statement issued by the Boston Newspaper Guild, which represents more than 500 reporters, photographers and editors, union officials called Mr. Henry ''a local and deeply respected businessman.''
For most of American history, newspapers were owned and operated locally, often by families, business or political interests that used barrels of ink to advance broader agendas. It was only when the industry began to generate reliable profits in the middle of the last century that newspapers were scooped up and folded into larger enterprises. Many regionally dominant metro papers landed in the hands of Knight-Ridder, McClatchy, Tribune Company and Media News.
Newspapers were typically passed around a fraternity of known buyers already in the business. But the local monopolies that made the newspapers attractive to acquirers have now disappeared, and the chains have gone through bankruptcy or are a shadow of their former selves.
The Globe, which was put on the market in February, attracted a number of local buyers like Mr. Henry and national buyers like Doug Manchester, a real estate developer who bought the San Diego Union Tribune in 2011. Despite the demand, Craig Huber, an independent research analyst with Huber Research Partners, said Mr. Henry's winning bid did not mitigate the challenges he faces ahead.
When The Times bought The Globe in 1993, it paid $1.1 billion, and it bought the Worcester paper for $295 million in 1999. Mr. Huber estimated that the entire New England Media Group, which has grown to include other assets, was now worth $100 million. Despite the even lower price The Globe fetched, Mr. Huber called The Globe a ''management headache'' and raised concerns about its finances.
''The U.S. is littered with people trying to buy metro papers here in the last five to 10 years that turned out to be very unsuccessful,'' he said.
He estimated that while The Times generated profit margins for the overall company of more than 15 percent, the New England Media Group generated profit margins of less than 5 percent. Mr. Huber said he was more troubled by its digital outlook: he calculated that The Globe's 30,000 digital subscribers generated $8 million in subscription revenue.
Even local buyers facing the grimmest financials still extol the benefits of local ownership. Brian Tierney, a Philadelphia businessman, bought The Philadelphia Inquirer and its sister newspaper, The Daily News, in 2006 from the McClatchy Company for $515 million. After Mr. Tierney's purchase, national advertising plummeted and circulation continued to tumble. Despite laying off 400 people to cut costs, the newspaper company ended up in bankruptcy in 2009.
After a protracted battle, the newspapers went up for auction and the company's creditors bought the properties for $139 million. Their building was sold in 2011.
By 2012, a group of local businessmen led by George E. Norcross III bought the newspaper for $55 million, a little more than a tenth of what the newspapers were worth six years before. Reached on the phone last Friday, Mr. Norcross said the operational challenges remained significant in the current environment, but the local nature of the investors was an asset.
''There is no doubt in my mind that local ownership matters in a big way,'' he said. ''Local engagement by owners can drive ad sales, we have better relationships with the unions and we are making $15 to $20 million in capital improvements.''
Sometimes a newspaper does not have to turn a big profit to benefit a local owner. In San Diego, Mr. Manchester, a real estate developer, bought The San Diego Union Tribune in 2012, changed its name to The U-T San Diego and immediately began pushing his development agenda and candidates for public office who shared those values.
While many Bostonians welcomed a local owner back to The Globe, they also raised Mr. Henry's potential for conflicts of interest. Dan Kennedy, a journalism professor at Northeastern University, said in a phone interview that The Globe still would be responsible for covering Mr. Henry's Red Sox, city issues related to the Red Sox like pregame street closures around Fenway Park and the Jimmy Fund, a charity that the Red Sox have long been involved with. But he said he still felt that local ownership was more preferable.
''A local owner by definition is more invested in the community than any out-of-state corporate chain can be,'' Mr. Kennedy said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John W. Henry, owner of the Boston Red Sox, will buy The Boston Globe and other properties from The New York Times Company for $70 million. In such sales of late, a paper's real estate, as with The Globe's building, left, has been seen as a major asset. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL DWYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 DARREN McCOLLESTER/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); TRENDS (88%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); HISTORY (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (92%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (82%); WORCESTER TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (91%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); MARYLAND, USA (78%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



153 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Hog Producers Battling to Contain Virus That Has Killed Piglets by the Thousands

BYLINE: By STEVEN YACCINO

 BODY:
ANNAWAN, Ill. -- The outside world is not allowed in a sanitized and isolated pig farm here, not far from the Iowa border.
Visitors must shower before entering, scrubbing from head to toe, trading their street clothes for disinfected coveralls that have never left the premises. Everything inside the temperature-controlled barn housing 3,000 sows has been blasted with antiseptic.
''We do a better job than some hospitals,'' said Dr. Matt Ackerman, a veterinarian who works with the farm. 
Strict protocols have kept the operation, one of 10 swine facilities run by Great Plains Management, safe from a virus spreading across the country this summer, killing piglets by the thousands and distressing hog producers in 16 states.
But those same precautions have not worked everywhere. A Central Indiana farm that Dr. Ackerman also works with was among the first to lose piglets to the virus in May. ''If it gets in, you can't stop it,'' Dr. Ackerman said. ''We filled wheelbarrows with dead pigs.''
The porcine epidemic diarrhea virus, which is deadly only to young pigs and poses no food safety risks or danger to humans, appeared in the United States for the first time last spring in Ohio and within weeks had spread to four other states.
The outbreak led to a flurry of lab testing and a survey of the industry to determine how the virus had entered the country, comparing supplies and feeds in an effort to find a smoking gun. Farmers are cross-referencing vaccine and semen distributors, even the brands of plastic pipettes they use to inseminate sows, desperate to contain a threat that has made the industry feel increasingly vulnerable.
''It's anybody's guess at this point,'' said Lisa Becton, director of swine health information and research at the National Pork Board, which is spending $800,000 for research into the virus.
First surfacing in Britain more than 40 years ago, the virus has spread throughout Europe and Asia. It has caused problems most recently among pork producers in China, where a 2012 strand of the disease was 99.4 percent similar to cases now found in the United States, according to researchers.
Researchers in the United States are working on a vaccine for the virus, which is passed through fecal matter and resembles transmissible gastroenteritis, another pig-to-pig illness that American farms have at times encountered. Symptoms include severe diarrhea and vomiting, and mortality rates can reach 100 percent for pigs less than a week old. Older swine will be sick for days but most likely recover.
Retroactive testing by a national laboratory pegged the earliest confirmed case of the virus in the United States around April 15 at a farm in Ohio. Within a month, other cases had surfaced in Indiana, Iowa, Colorado and Minnesota.
By the end of July, 403 separate cases had been reported to the National Animal Health Laboratory Network of the Department of Agriculture, with most outbreaks occurring in Iowa (149) and Oklahoma (94). About 30 new cases are reported each week.
''There's not many times that a new virus hits an industry that has no immunity,'' said Robert Morrison, a professor of veterinary medicine at the University of Minnesota who has been studying the virus. ''Every pig in the United States is susceptible. It's like throwing a spark on a bunch of kindling.''
No one quite knows how many pigs have died so far, in part because the virus is not considered a foreign animal disease by the Agriculture Department and farms are not required to report it to the authorities.
Few experts are willing to speculate, saying only that industry losses amount to several hundred thousand piglets nationwide.
Though it is perhaps too soon to predict how the virus may affect the price of pork products, the epidemic has already caused economic hardships for individual farmers, particularly amid soaring feed prices caused by last year's drought.
An average farm with 2,500 sows could lose nearly every newborn for four weeks if it is hit with the virus, killing roughly 5,000 piglets and causing financial losses close to $200,000. Adult pigs that recuperate typically build immunity to the virus, making recurring outbreaks rare.
''One month can do a lot of damage,'' said Mark Greenwood, senior vice president for AgStar Financial Services, which provides financing to hog farms. ''It's really devastating if you're finally turning the corner.''
The fear has inspired a renewed vigilance across the hog industry to ensure that workers are using basic practices like disinfecting their boots and trailers after visiting packing plants, which researchers have identified as high-risk locations for picking up the virus.
Yet questions remain about how the virus got to the United States in the first place, raising anxiety among producers and farmers.
''The world got a lot smaller that day,'' Tom Burkgren, executive director of the American Association of Swine Veterinarians, said of when the first domestic case was confirmed. ''If P.E.D.V. can get into the United States, what about some of the even more nasty viruses?''
Preliminary results from a targeted survey led by the association, which some had hoped would identify a link among infected farms, suggested that more data was needed. Dr. Burkgren said investigators would take a closer look at feed-related risk factors.
Jan Hueber, co-owner of Great Plains Management, the swine consultants, said he would take nothing for granted.
After an Indiana farm he works with lost at least three weeks of piglets from the virus, Mr. Hueber's truck drivers now wear plastic disposable boots every time they visit a hog facility.
''Do we sleep comfortable at night?'' he asked. ''Not when you have something looming out there that can be so financially devastating.''
''We assume everything is infected,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A swine virus appeared in the United States last spring in Ohio and in weeks had spread to four more states. How it entered the country is unknown. (A9)
 Jan Hueber, a co-owner of Great Plains Management, which stresses strict preventive protocols. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOG & PIG FARMING (92%); MAMMALS (90%); PORK (89%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (77%); VACCINES (76%); MEATS (74%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); TEST LABORATORIES (70%); FOOD SAFETY (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (56%); EPIDEMICS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



154 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: A Plan to Avert the Pension Crisis

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. RIORDAN and TIM RUTTEN. 
Richard J. Riordan, a Republican, was mayor of Los Angeles from 1993 to 2001. Tim Rutten was a journalist at The Los Angeles Times from 1972 to 2011.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- IT isn't politically feasible for Washington to bail out Detroit, but President Obama and Congress must step in to avert the worst fiscal collapse in urban American history.
They must intervene, because symptoms of the municipal illness that made Detroit, with an estimated $18 billion in liabilities, the largest city in American history to declare bankruptcy are showing up in other cities. Emergency response times are lengthening in cash-starved cities. Libraries, parks and recreation facilities are shortening their hours or closing. Potholes go unfilled, sidewalks unrepaired and trees untrimmed. All that makes urban life rewarding and uplifting is under increasing pressure, in large part because of unaffordable public employee pension and health care costs.
Do we want to live in a city like Detroit, where if you call 911, it takes nearly an hour to get a response? Will Washington sit by as this tragedy is re-enacted in one city after another and our urban standard of living falls to third world levels, with the streets around us resembling those in post-apocalyptic video games? 
President Obama should propose, and push Congress to establish, a public employee pension reform program, similar to a plan proposed by the economist Joshua D. Rauh, now a professor of finance at Stanford's business school and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution.
In our version of the plan, the program would essentially serve as an insurance agency. It would not bail out distressed local retirement plans. Instead, cities, and perhaps states, would be permitted to sell bonds to cover their pension liabilities, with the federal government guaranteeing repayment. Participants would pay fees -- a kind of insurance premium -- to finance the program, so there would be no net cost to Washington. The program would give cities access to low-cost, long-term capital. But in exchange for what would amount to federal bond insurance, the cities would have to agree to certain reforms of their pension and health care programs for current and former workers. At a minimum, those reforms should include a single national standard for projecting returns on pension investments -- remarkably, there isn't one -- and negotiated reductions in current benefits.
Some will argue that the causes of Detroit's epic civic failure are unique: white flight on an unprecedented scale, the collapse of auto manufacturing, decades of inept, often corrupt, municipal government. One significant cause of its financial debacle, however, is unfortunately shared by an alarming number of other cities, and that's the burden of unaffordable pension and retiree health costs.
Detroit's municipal debt is around $18.2 billion, or more than $26,000 for each of its 700,000 residents. Employee pension and retiree health schemes account for $9.2 billion of the liabilities. Until recently, officials thought the programs were fully financed. Now it appears they are short by at least $3.5 billion. That's because Detroit consistently overestimated investment returns on its pension funds.
It is not alone in this kind of wishful actuarial accounting. California's giant state pension fund, the world's sixth largest, continues to assume it will earn 7.75 percent on its investments, even though its actual returns have been less than half that for a decade. Los Angeles continues to project similar annual yields on its investments, when the actual average returns are closer to 5 percent. As a consequence, the city's unfunded pension obligations probably will grow to around $15 billion over the next four years.
According to Moody's, the credit-rating agency, Illinois's net public-employee pension liabilities now amount to $133 billion, or 241 percent of the state's total annual revenues; in Connecticut, 190 percent; in New Jersey, 137 percent; and in New York, 17 percent.
America's state and municipal pensions concede that they are underfunded by more than $1 trillion. If a more realistic expectation of returns on investment is pegged at 5 percent, then that collective liability climbs to $2.7 trillion. Moody's further estimates that the median state has financed only 48 percent of its future pension liabilities. Already, about one-fifth of state general spending goes to pay for pensions and service debts, a proportion that will soar in coming years.
In California, where more than 20,000 state and local retirees receive annual pensions of more than $100,000, the cities of San Bernardino, Stockton and Vallejo have filed for bankruptcy. Los Angeles's public employee pensions are inexorably pushing the city toward bankruptcy -- perhaps within four years. Chicago now pays $1 billion each year to its retired teachers alone. In New York City, pension costs have grown to $8 billion from $1.8 billion over the last 12 years.
A wave of municipal bankruptcies won't just decimate city services and retirees' lifestyles. They would also fundamentally undermine investors' confidence in the municipal bond markets.
Won't a federal insurance program simply create a ''moral hazard'' by making civic bankruptcy more attractive? There's little risk of that. First, Chapter 9 of the bankruptcy code is so onerous that it's hard to imagine any city pursuing it except as a last resort. Second, the pension reform provisions required to participate, however beneficial, would be so politically difficult to undertake that only municipalities in the most dire straits would sign up.
To be clear, we must avoid demonizing public employees and their unions. Concessions on their part should be negotiated within the collective-bargaining framework and not imposed unilaterally, as some governors have tried to do. Union leaders must embrace this process because it's the right thing for their members' long-term interests. If they're not included in the process and changes are forced on them, the result will be social strife and years of legal challenge.
Mr. Obama, Congress, local politicians and labor leaders can keep that from happening. We should insist they do.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); PENSION REFORM (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); CITIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (88%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); HEALTH CARE (75%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (64%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



155 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Vague Terror Threat Is Credible Enough to Keep 19 U.S. Missions Shut

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI; Brian Knowlton contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Nineteen American diplomatic outposts across the Middle East and North Africa will remain closed this week, the State Department said Sunday, despite what officials said was no new information about terrorist plots that they believe are in the works.
One day after President Obama's top national security aides huddled at the White House, senior lawmakers appeared on television on Sunday with ominous warnings about intelligence ''chatter,'' first revealed on Thursday, similar to what American spy agencies picked up in the weeks before the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
Such is the strange, wait-and-see climate surrounding a threat that appears to be both specific and maddeningly vague. American officials say that they are confident they have intercepted electronic communications discussing attacks in the coming days, but that they have no clear information about where they should try to defend against them.
''The assumption is that it's probably most likely to happen in the Middle East,'' said Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, on the ABC News program ''This Week.'' ''But there's no guarantee of that at all.''
''It could basically be in Europe, it could be in the United States, it could be a series of combined attacks,'' said Mr. King, who is a member of the House Intelligence Committee.
The one aspect of the intelligence that officials appear to agree on is that Al Qaeda's affiliate in Yemen is behind the plotting.
The group, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, has tried to carry out several high-profile attacks in recent years. One was a man's attempt to blow up a trans-Atlantic jet over Detroit on Dec. 25, 2009, using explosives sewn into his underwear. Months earlier, the group tried to kill the Saudi intelligence chief with a bomb surgically implanted in the attacker's body.
American officials believe that both bombs were built by Ibrahim al-Asiri, one of the group's leaders whom the Obama administration has been trying to kill as part of a campaign in Yemen using armed drones.
The State Department said Sunday that it was extending the closing of 19 diplomatic posts in the Middle East and North Africa through at least next Saturday because of continued fears of an imminent attack. Several European countries have also closed embassies in the Middle East.
A State Department spokesman said that the closings were not the result of new threat intelligence, but ''merely an indication of our commitment to exercise caution and take appropriate steps to protect our employees and visitors to our facilities.''
The embassies that will be closed include ones in Yemen, Libya, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, the statement said.
Seth G. Jones, a terrorism expert at the RAND Corporation, said that the scope of the closings is a sign of how diffuse the terrorist threat has become, and how difficult it is to guard against.
''The U.S. has to deal with a number of terror groups across multiple continents who are generally not coordinating with each other,'' Mr. Jones said.
''This is the new Al Qaeda. It is better understood as a loose movement, rather than a single organization.''
Senior lawmakers from both parties said Sunday that the embassy closings appeared justified. Senator Richard J. Durbin, the Illinois Democrat, said that the intelligence information added up to ''a big deal.'' He said on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press'' that Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. gave members of Congress of classified briefing last week indicating that about 25 American embassies around the world were vulnerable.
Saxby Chambliss, the Georgia Republican who is the ranking member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said the threat information was ''very reminiscent of what we saw pre-9/11.''
''We didn't take heed on 9/11 in a way that we should, but here I think it's very important that we do take the right kind of planning as we come to the close of Ramadan,'' said Mr. Chambliss, referring to the Islamic holy month, on ''Meet the Press.''
Lawmakers on Sunday gave credit for unmasking the threat to the National Security Agency, which has come under criticism after revelations about its extensive electronic monitoring programs in the United States and abroad.
In the days immediately after the N.S.A. revelations began, some American officials warned that terrorist leaders had already changed their communication methods and patterns of as a result of the exposure the revelations had brought. But the N.S.A.'s ability to intercept the recent discussions about plots seems to indicate that American spy agencies have not been hindered as much as some have asserted.
Senator Durbin indicated that what is perhaps the most contentious of the recent N.S.A. disclosures -- a program to gather and store phone records of all calls made inside the United States -- is not responsible for unearthing the recent plotting.
''In other words, do we need to collect all of the phone records of all of the people living in America for five years so that if we're going to target one particular person, we're ready to jump on it?'' he said.
''That is being discussed and debated.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A soldier inspected a car on Sunday near the American Embassy in Sana, Yemen, one of the countries affected by the closings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANI MOHAMMED/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); PETER T KING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); YEMEN (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AFRICA (91%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); GULF STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



156 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2533 words

HEADLINE: The Last Temptation of Tina Brown

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN and CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
On Nov. 12, 2010, Tina Brown gathered the staff of her Web site The Daily Beast in the third-floor conference room at its Chelsea offices with its commanding views of the Hudson. Brimming with the fervor she has brought to all her endeavors, she delivered some surprising news: the Web site would merge with Newsweek, a once-proud but struggling magazine brand.
Ms. Brown, according to staff members who were present, spoke excitedly about the potential synergies for advertisers across platforms and promised to produce a new form of magazine journalism, where digital would drive print instead of the other way around. But after a few softball questions from the staff, Peter Lauria, the company's media reporter, braved a more skeptical one:
Given that the two publications lost more than $30 million in the previous two years, he asked, why was it a good idea to put them together? And if The Beast was on schedule to break even in 18 months, how much longer would it take now that Newsweek was part of the mix? 
Ms. Brown says she has no recollection of that particular meeting, but half a dozen employees who say they were present said the atmosphere immediately turned awkward. The famous editor gave no ground. The target, she said, remained 18 months.
More than two and a half years later, Ms. Brown has missed the mark. Synergies have long since slipped away. After the magazine hemorrhaged tens of millions of dollars, Barry Diller, the billionaire media mogul whose company owns both publications, publicly called the purchase of Newsweek ''a mistake'' and the original plan to save it ''stupid.'' On Saturday, the company announced that it had sold Newsweek for an undisclosed amount to the digital news company International Business Times.
It was always a quixotic project to blend a buzzy, growing Web site with the most outdated of print relics, a newsweekly. But interviews with more than two dozen former and current employees -- some provided by Ms. Brown and some reached independently -- suggested that she and Mr. Diller underestimated what it would take to reverse the dive of a print magazine (the two have acknowledged as much) and that there was never a credible plan to integrate the products into a better whole (an opinion they utterly contest). These people also suggest that Ms. Brown's intensely demanding and chaotic management style, which had thrived when contained within established companies, proved a combustible combination with Newsweek's gutted and weakened editorial and sales divisions.
Dan Lyons, Newsweek's former technology editor, summed up the sentiment in a Facebook post when the magazine was first put up for sale: ''It didn't need to be as ugly and sad and dishonest as what's happened under Barry and Tina.''
Ms. Brown, for her part, said that it took at least a year to assemble a team she wanted, and undoubtedly she bruised some egos along the way.
''We did a cover on the beached white male and perhaps that's another reason for the old guard to be angry at me,'' she joked during a recent interview at The Beast's offices. But she said she had no regrets.
''It was really exhilarating,'' she said. ''We did great journalism.''
Ms. Brown knows great journalism, having built her reputation with her wholesale makeover of Vanity Fair and her stewardship at The New Yorker. At both magazines, she increased circulation, introduced dozens of young writers, many of whom went on to become stars, and won shelves of awards.
But, despite her reputation, she said publicly that she was happy to be away from print. ''I would hate to be in the magazine world,'' she told the EconWomen conference in 2008. ''It's a really tough world to have to compete in.'' That was the year that Ms. Brown started working for Mr. Diller as The Daily Beast was introduced.
What pulled her back, she says, was the billionaire investor Sidney Harman -- his enthusiasm, charm and generous financial resources to match -- and the chance to return to long-form journalism. Although Ms. Brown does not utter the word ''Talk,'' her last print magazine, which ended in heartbreaking failure, she acknowledges that she missed the ''rhythms'' of long-form journalism and that she felt she could not do all the work she craved on the Web.
When Mr. Harman contacted Ms. Brown and Mr. Diller, it didn't seem like a surefire deal. When Mr. Harman, a stereo executive, bought Newsweek on Aug. 2, 2010, for just $1 and the assumption of $40 million in liabilities, he found it difficult to find takers for the editor in chief job. Peter Kaplan, editorial director of Fairchild Publications, was one of those who balked. ''It was a massively heavy lift and there was no philosophy involved,'' he said.
Turning On the Charm
Both Mr. Diller and Ms. Brown say they turned down Mr. Harman at first, but then Ms. Brown says she weakened, tempted by the challenge. She adds that Mr. Harman was ''deliciously gallant.''
Katrina Heron, who had worked with Ms. Brown at both Vanity Fair and The New Yorker before signing on for a year at the end of 2010 to help ease the merger, said that Ms. Brown, so used to charming billionaires, was the target of Mr. Harman's charm this time around. He called her ''princess,'' she said.
From the beginning, Ms. Brown and Mr. Diller underestimated what it would take to revive Newsweek. When Jon Meacham, the magazine's last editor under The Washington Post's ownership, tried to turn Newsweek into an Economist-like ideas journal, the magazine's decline accelerated. Between 2006 and 2010, the magazine's total circulation shrank by half, to 1.6 million, according to the Alliance for Audited Media. Advertising pages declined 79 percent between the first three months of 2006 and the same period in 2010. It lost more than $29 million in 2009. Then, in the months between Mr. Harman's purchase and Ms. Brown's coming on, the place had been further vacated by name-brand writers like Howard Fineman and members of its ad staff.
''It was a dead, beached whale. There was no life in the creature,'' said the writer Peter Boyer, who arrived from The New Yorker just after the merger.
Ms. Brown and Mr. Diller both say they also agreed to the merger because of optimistic sales estimates by The Daily Beast's business side. In an interview in July, Mr. Diller said, ''Our chief salesman said, you know, 'Newsweek last year sold 950 pages of ads, you know there's been no energy there, we'll at least sell 1,150 ads.' And, I said, 'Well, you do that math, we kind of break even.' Well we didn't sell 11, 10 or 950, we sold 600 ads.''
Ms. Brown said she planned to save Newsweek by building a digital-age magazine driven by the beat of the Internet, with the high-quality writing found in traditional print. She argued that despite impossible conditions, she succeeded admirably, citing Newsweek's coverage of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former chief of the International Monetary Fund, by landing the first print interview with the housekeeper in his sexual assault case, and the issue devoted to the killing of Osama bin Laden.
But many of her colleagues say that going back into print brought out Ms. Brown's tendencies toward chaotic management and indecision, running the enterprise in what one former editor who asked not to be named for fear of retribution, described as a state of panic.
Employees also say that the newsrooms never really merged. Instead of using Beast writers to fill Newsweek, she turned to her Rolodex and hired expensive talent like Simon Schama, Michael Tomasky and David Frum.
Mr. Boyer, a fan of Ms. Brown, said, ''There was an awful lot of frustration on the part of the young beasties who were so good, half a dozen really good writers and reporters who weren't making it into the magazine, and that was a mistake.''
''Newsweek had an older readership,'' Ms. Brown says to explain why she turned to some older writers, adding that the magazine needed more attention. ''Newsweek writers had been terribly demoralized. I owed them some care.''
Spending Freely
But even longtime reporters were shocked at Ms. Brown's extravagance in making assignments -- one former editor called them ''fishing expeditions'' -- that seemed to belong to an earlier, more flush era of publishing. The magazine sent Mr. Boyer to Japan hoping he would get an interview with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., even though he had been warned in advance that it was very unlikely (and indeed it never happened). With several days' notice, the Pulitzer Prize-winning fashion writer Robin Givhan was sent to Paris to track down the Vogue editor Anna Wintour, even though Ms. Wintour had declined to speak.
Ms. Brown also ordered high-priced photography and investment in time and money for articles that were killed or relegated to small spaces. Newsweek's former creative director, Dirk Barnett, posted on his Tumblr a montage of the 82 different cover ideas Ms. Brown asked him to design in seven days, while also employing six other agencies and illustrators to come up with ideas. In a June 27, 2012, post on Newsweek's Tumblr, the magazine called it ''our favorite Newsweek-related post of all time.''
During the interview, at first, Ms. Brown made light of the criticism: ''Only 82?'' she laughed. ''How hard is it to take a picture and slap a headline on it?'' Then she flatly denied having ordered so many covers. She said she sought out two other agencies at most and both were free. As for assignments, she said that is what magazine editors do, and to bolster her defense, she invoked the name of Maynard Parker, a previous Newsweek editor, who famously liked to change covers at the last minute.
Criticisms of how Ms. Brown spent money rile her strongest defenders.
''If somebody is saying 'I don't approve of this way the $10,000 was spent and that's the reason for this $10 million budget gap,' that's not very good math,'' said Mr. Frum, a contributing editor. ''It's the cost to print, declining revenue, switch to a digital environment. The fact that Tina struggled so valiantly and took so many risks, that is to her credit. It just exposes a total lack of understanding of the media environment.''
Certainly, the media environment was not good -- although that might have been entirely predictable. Still, Ms. Brown put the blame for Newsweek's troubles almost entirely on factors outside her control.
She pointed out that the advertising market ''went off a cliff'' in 2011. She acknowledged, too, that the magazine needed more digital sales employees and the posts remained unfilled, but said that was not her responsibility since she never ran the business side. But employees on the business side said their bosses were often paralyzed by Ms. Brown's indecision on how to proceed with various projects because they feared her wrath if they got it wrong.
Newsroom Troubles
The newsroom side was also struggling. Employees point to covers like those featuring Regis Philbin and a reimagining of an aged Princess Diana as evidence that Ms. Brown struggled to find subjects to create that most elusive but desirable of magazine outcomes: buzz. One employee said that Ms. Brown ordered up a Newsweek feature on ''Breaking Bad'' well after an article on the show had appeared in The Beast. Ms. Brown does not accept the idea that she did not have her finger on the popular pulse. ''I was the first person to do anything on 'Breaking Bad.' Nobody knew what 'Breaking Bad' was around here at all,'' she said. ''We were the first to write about 'Borgen'; I have been watching it for a year,'' referring to the Danish political series.
She also ticked off a raft of measures: under her leadership Newsweek went from losing 30 percent of its ad revenue a quarter to actually gaining 5.5 percent in the last quarter in print, and digital subscriptions expanded threefold during 2012, to 60,000 (both figures were confirmed by the Publisher's Information Bureau). She also said that subscription renewal rates were 20 percent higher in 2011 than they had been in 2010, and the rate was maintained into 2012, reversing a period of decline that had begun in 2008.
But the venture was running out of time. On April 12, 2011, Mr. Harman, the chief supporter of Newsweek, died. The Harman heirs did not announce until July 23, 2012, that they would no longer foot Newsweek's bills. But internally it was clear from the moment of the death that the dynamic had changed now that Mr. Diller, who had expected to split the costs, would carry the whole load (Mr. Boyer mordantly joked that ''the wrong billionaire died'').
On Nov. 14, 2011, Ms. Brown's chief lieutenants, the editors Edward Felsenthal and Tom Weber, resigned. In meetings, employees said, Mr. Diller grew impatient with Ms. Brown if she spoke for too long about how many hits an article was getting. He snapped, ''Enough about traffic,'' as if to bring her back to the bottom line.
And the magazine's redesign in March 2012 did not seem to help at the newsstand; sales there declined in August 2012 by 9.7 percent, according to the Alliance for Audited Media. By October, the decision to make Newsweek digital was made. By December, its total circulation had declined to 1.3 million.
Even though Mr. Diller had cut the losses from printing the magazine, he complained at dinners and social events that ''Newsweek wasn't working out,'' according to Fareed Zakaria, another former Newsweek employee who had also turned down the top post. On April 29, 2013, at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, Calif., Mr. Diller told Bloomberg TV, ''I wish I hadn't bought Newsweek. It was a mistake.'' Although his unhappiness was well-known inside the building, his statements hurt. ''Recipe for Diller's Newsweek Pie: Take one storied print magazine; eviscerate for 2 years, then turn digital; bad-mouth said magazine; sell,'' Tunku Varadarajan, Newsweek International's recently resigned editor, posted on Twitter.
A month later when the two announced that Newsweek was up for sale, it was almost anticlimactic. The magazine, a shell of its original self, is published online once a week. The total number of employees at the combined NewsBeast has shrunk by roughly a third. Now Newsweek will be published for 30 to 60 days, and during that time, International Business Times is expected to decide on its staffing needs, the company said.
Ms. Brown still defends the idea of putting the two properties together, and the magazine she made. ''The kind of the shame of it was you saw how it worked -- but the economics were too much. It would have taken five more years. It could have been a great synergy.''
In the end, Ms. Brown is left with a conference business, Women in the World, and The Daily Beast. But the good news, she says, is that The Beast has been ''enriched by Newsweek's DNA'' through its advertiser base, through the quality of its writers and through traffic, which she says is up 28 percent year over year.
For all her optimism about The Beast, Ms. Brown still seems a bit wistful about the state of affairs in her industry.
''It doesn't matter how talented you are right now. You used to be judged by your performance, but now it doesn't matter what you do,'' she said. ''It is quite a business.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tina Brown still defends the concept behind merging The Daily Beast and Newsweek. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
KAREN BLEIER/ A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
Barry Diller, left, the journalist Harold Evans, the designer Diane von Furstenberg and Tina Brown, right, arriving at a Manhattan reception in 2005. Mr. Diller and Ms. Brown teamed up to start The Daily Beast in 2008. Mr. Diller has called the merger with Newsweek in 2010 ''a mistake.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY A. CLARY)
 Ms. Brown said Web traffic at The Daily Beast was up 28 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (77%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); CELEBRITIES (69%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (89%); DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013



157 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Israeli Decree on West Bank Settlements Will Harm Peace Talks, Palestinians Say

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN; Gabby Sobelman contributed research.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- With peace talks scheduled to begin next week, an Israeli cabinet decision involving West Bank settlements on Sunday drew condemnation from the Palestinian leadership, highlighting the fragility of the Washington-brokered effort to resume long-stalled negotiations.
The cabinet decision added a number of Jewish settlements in the West Bank territory that Israel seized in the 1967 war to a ''national priority list'' of communities eligible for extra subsidies for education, housing, infrastructure projects, cultural programs and sports, along with better mortgage rates and loans for new homeowners. Most of the world considers these settlements illegal, and some of them sit in the heart of the area imagined as a future Palestinian state. The United States has not taken a position on the settlements' legality for several decades, saying instead, according to the State Department, ''We do not accept the legitimacy of continued settlement activity.'' 
''The Israeli government has approved a confidence-destruction measure,'' Hanan Ashrawi, a member of the Palestine Liberation Organization's executive committee, said in a statement. ''Israeli attempts to grab more Palestinian land and to provide settlers with preferential treatment will not be tolerated.'' The Associated Press quoted Ms. Ashrawi as saying that the decision would have ''a destructive impact'' on the talks.
In a routine annual move, the cabinet approved a list of more than 600 Israeli communities -- about 90 of them West Bank settlements -- eligible for the benefits, based on criteria like socio-economic status, location near Israel's borders, security vulnerability and newness. Among the newcomers to the list are three formerly illegal outposts -- Bruchin, Rachelim and Sansana -- that obtained government recognition last year.
Tzipi Livni, the Israeli minister leading the negotiations, was one of four cabinet members who abstained from voting.
Mark Regev, a spokesman for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, denied that the decision encouraged or expanded West Bank settlement, noting that it required an additional vote before any actual benefits were granted to those communities. ''The decision today changes nothing on the West Bank,'' Mr. Regev said. As for the timing, Mr. Regev said, it ''was determined by the legislative process and the legal process'' and had nothing to do with the peace process.
After an aggressive push by Secretary of State John Kerry that included six rounds of shuttle diplomacy in the region, Israeli and Palestinian negotiators met last week in Washington, starting a nine-month process whose goal, Mr. Kerry said, is a final agreement in the long-running conflict. Negotiators plan to meet next week in Jerusalem or Jericho to plan for tackling the contentious issues of borders, security, refugees, water and the future of Jerusalem, which both Palestinians and Israelis see as their capital.
Mr. Netanyahu presides over a coalition government that includes many right-wing settlement supporters, and he refused to formally freeze settlement construction -- as he did in 2010 -- as a condition for restarting talks.
The dispute over the priority map is the latest in a series of hiccups in recent months involving settlements. Mr. Netanyahu has not allowed any new housing tenders to be issued in the West Bank, but on several occasions, already-approved projects advancing in the development process have raised questions among Palestinians, Americans, and left-leaning Israelis over his seriousness about negotiations.
''The National Priority List provides a clear example of the Israeli government choosing to incentivize and encourage Israeli citizens to immigrate into the settlements, especially into deep, isolated settlements that will not be included in any sort of peace agreement,'' the anti-settlement group Peace Now said in a statement. ''This is not only illegal under international law, but it brings into question whether this government is truly ready to negotiate in good faith.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2013

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a decision by the Israeli cabinet to add several Jewish settlements in the West Bank territory seized by Israel in the 1967 war to a list of communities eligible for extra subsidies and better mortgage rates and loans for new homeowners misstated the United States' view of such settlements. While much of the rest of the world considers them illegal, as the article noted, the United States has taken no formal position in the last several years on whether they are legal or illegal. (In a statement on Tuesday, the State Department said, ''We do not accept the legitimacy of continued settlement activity.'' )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); MORTGAGE RATES (55%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (69%); TZIPORA LIVNI (59%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013



158 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: The Free-Trade Blues

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: The optimistic view that increased foreign trade benefits everyone works only if winners fully compensate losers, and so far they have shown little desire to do so , an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 
President Obama publicly deplores growing economic inequality in the United States. At the same time, he is pushing for a new Trans-Pacific Trade Agreement on top of the trade agreements he won in 2011. Evidently, he sees no inconsistency here, but a growing body of economic research points to the adverse effects of lowered tariff barriers on manufacturing workers and their communities. Whether or not the losers are beginning to outnumber the winners, free trade is increasing the economic distance between the two. 
Many economists continue to believe that increased foreign trade is a rising tide that will eventually lift all boats. Still, the discipline has been shaken by interpretations of trade theory that challenge this view, especially when articulated by highly respected scholars such as the late Paul Samuelson of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
The persistence of high long-term unemployment - conveniently assumed out of existence by standard trade models - has also taken an ideological toll. Economists once celebrated the resilience of the United States labor market. Not any more. Employment remains lower than it was in December 2007.
Whatever their political predilections, empirical researchers have a hard time isolating the effect of increased trade in an economy experiencing financial shocks, rapid technological change and forms of outsourcing that aren't counted as either imports or exports. Effects spill over. In the long run, lower prices can lead to shifts in demand and expansion of employment in new sectors. Or not. Even relatively short-run effects are difficult to measure.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has bitterly complained of trade-related job losses, and Robert E. Scott of the Economic Policy Institute published a report last year calculating both overall and state-level job losses attributable to trade with China. Many academic researchers, discounting estimates not published in peer-reviewed journals, remained skeptical. 
But a sophisticated econometric analysis by the economists David H. Autor, David Dorn and Gordon H. Hanson, forthcoming in The American Economic Review, offers new evidence of a significant negative impact, controlling to the extent possible for other factors such as automation. 
Titled "The China Syndrome: Local Labor Market Effects of Import Competition in the U.S.," the article examines the period between 1990 and 2007, during which the share of all manufacturing imports to the United States coming from low-income countries increased to about 28 percent from about 9 percent. This increase was largely driven by China's export success in an increasingly open global economy.
The authors compare changes in employment and labor force participation in areas of the United States with differing levels of regional specialization and vulnerability to import competition. They conclude that import competition explains about one-quarter of the aggregate decline in United States manufacturing employment over the period. 
Many of those who lost jobs dropped out of the labor force rather than wait in the unemployment line. Family and community ties may have inhibited some from moving to other areas of the country with more job openings.
Average wages in manufacturing were not affected, partly because low-wage jobs were the most likely to be eliminated. But workers in other sectors in strongly affected areas often saw their wages decline. A wide swath of households - including many that could be characterized as middle class - experienced a loss of income. Government transfers, including disability payments, increased significantly as a result, imposing costs on taxpayers.
The specific estimates of economic losses lend support to critics of free trade. Unfortunately, their political impact may be diminished by sheer faith that such losses will be countervailed by benefits like lower prices or higher income growth in less developed countries.
Trade theory emphasizes that those who benefit from free trade should be able to compensate those who suffer, making everyone better off. What trade theory doesn't explain is why the beneficiaries would offer such compensation unless they are forced to do so.
In a global economy heavily influenced by government policies, including currency valuation, export subsidies and safety net programs, the effects of free trade on political bargaining power may overshadow the direct effects of job loss. 
The winners in the last round of trade agreements can invest their profits in campaign contributions and political lobbying strategies to ensure their victory in the next round. In other words, winner takes all. 

        
Manufacturing Still Looks O.K.
        
The Age Equation in Employment Numbers
        
Financial Sector Continues a Rebound
        
Puzzling Weakness in Construction Work
        
Handicapping the Fed's Next Move

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OUTSOURCING (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); WRITERS (68%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Org; Factories and Manufacturing; International Trade and World Market; Labor and Jobs; Samuelson, Paul A; United States Economy; Today's Economist

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (58%)

ORGANIZATION: American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Org

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%) Samuelson, Paul A

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



159 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: HSBC's First-Half Profit Rose 10%

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: HSBC, Britain&#8217;s largest bank, said earnings rose 10 percent in the first half of the year, to $14.07 billion, thanks in part to lower charges for bad loans, especially in the United States. 

 BODY:
LONDON - HSBC, Britain's largest bank, said on Monday that earnings rose 10 percent in the first half of the year, thanks in part to lower charges for bad loans, especially in the United States. 
Profit rose to $14.07 billion in the first six months of the year from $12.74 billion in the period a year earlier, slightly missing analysts' forecasts. Loan impairments fell 35 percent to $3.1 billion during the first half of 2013.
 Shares in HSBC fell 3.4 percent in early trading in London on Monday.
Douglas J. Flint, the bank's chairman, called the results "solid," adding that they were a result of "the continuing reshaping of the group and from enforcing appropriate cost discipline."
Like many of its rivals, HSBC has been closing or selling some operations to reduce costs and improve profitability. Under its chief executive, Stuart T. Gulliver, the bank has exited 54 businesses worldwide and scaled back consumer lending in the United States, where its 2003 acquisition of the subprime lender Household International has weighed on group earnings.
HSBC said it had exceeded its cost-cutting target for the year after saving $800 million in the first half. As part of Mr. Gulliver's cost-cutting plan, which was announced in 2011, HSBC is shedding about 30,000 positions. The bank also sold its credit card unit in the United States to Capital One Financial and its stake in Ping An Insurance of China. Mr. Gulliver said HSBC would now slow the pace of its disposals. 
Provisions for bad loans and other risks in North America fell to $696 million in the first half from $2.2 billion in the period a year earlier. 
Richard Hunter, the head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown in London, said the earnings were "safe and dependable."
Despite the flawed Household International acquisition, HSBC has fared better than some of its European competitors during the financial crisis, which started in 2008, because a large part of its earnings come from faster-growing markets like those in Asia. 
HSBC acknowledged on Monday that growth in China, Brazil and other developing markets had been slowing recently, but said it was confident those regions would continue to outpace Europe and the United States.
"Despite slower growth in the short term, the long-term economic trends remain intact," Mr. Gulliver said. "The global economy will continue to rebalance toward the faster-growing markets and trade and capital flows will continue to expand."
The bank recently became embroiled in a set of scandals that included the sale of an insurance product to clients who did not qualify for it and a record settlement for charges of money laundering. 
HSBC agreed last year to a $1.92 billion settlement with American authorities over accusations that it transferred billions of dollars for Iran and allowed Mexican drug cartels to move money illegally through its American subsidiaries.

        
Lloyds Banking Group Returns to Profit
        
Barclays to Raise Up to $12 Billion in New Capital

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); CARTELS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (64%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); MONEY LAUNDERING (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Company Reports; HSBC Holdings PLC; London (England); Financial Services; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (66%); PING AN INSURANCE (GROUP) CO OF CHINA LTD (54%); HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HSBC Holdings PLC

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); COF (NYSE) (66%); 2318 (HKSE) (54%); HL (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (74%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



160 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Joe Nocera)

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2433 words

HEADLINE: Weekend Gun Report: August 2-4, 2013

BYLINE: JENNIFER MASCIA


HIGHLIGHT: A weekend in the life of armed America. 

 BODY:
The shooting of Trayvon Martin in a gated community in Sanford, Fla., drew public attention to the state's self-defense statutes, and lawmakers there seem to be reacting: Florida's House of Representatives will hold hearings this fall on its "Stand Your Ground" self-defense law, which was the first of its kind in the country when it was adopted in 2005.
It is a rare concession to protesters, who recently staged a sit-in outside Gov. Rick Scott's office to demand changes to self-defense laws and initiatives to stop racial profiling. And even though the chairman of the criminal justice subcommittee said he doesn't "intend to move one damn comma" in the law, perhaps this marks a step toward sanity: 20-plus states have their own version of the law, which is linked to an increase in homicides.
Here is today's report. 
-Jennifer Mascia 
 Friday:
A 9-year-old boy was killed when his 13-year-old stepbrother accidentally shot him with a 12-gauge shotgun in Clay County, Tex., Friday evening, and the children's grandfather was charged with endangering a child. Four people were shot dead in Letcher County, Ky., early Friday, including 31-year-old Amy Ratliff, a mother of two who battled multiple sclerosis; her 25-year-old boyfriend, Josh Wyatt; 35-year-old Jennifer Walters; and Walters's boyfriend, 58-year-old Tim Shelby, who shot the three victims before killing himself.
36-year old Clifton Purkett and 37-year old Rashid Pryor were killed and three others were wounded when two masked men pulled up in a dark sedan and opened fire in Newark, N.J., Friday night. Jaquan Marquise Brown, 21, and Roderick Deon Rush, 37, were shot and killed and three others were injured in two separate shootings in Hampton, Va., early Friday. James Foster, 19, was shot in the arm and leg in retaliation for a prior shooting in downtown Charleston, W. Va., early Friday.
Two men were shot and killed during an argument outside an Office Max in Porterville, Calif., Friday morning. Four people were injured in a shooting outside a nightclub in Broad Ripple, Ind., early Friday, after a fight broke out over a girl. Peter Byrne, 41, was shot in the hip and wounded after an argument in the driveway of a home in Encinitas, Calif., early Friday. Two bank robbers were shot by a man they tried to abduct north of Columbus, Tex., Thursday afternoon.
A man was fatally shot in West Oakland, Calif., Friday evening. One person was injured in a shooting in East Oakland, Calif., Thursday evening. 49-year-old Sacore Raley Gray was shot and killed in her west Charlotte, N.C., home Friday morning. Leon Day and Daizhon Robinson, both 27, were shot and wounded in the upstairs bedroom of a house on the South Side of Columbus, Ohio, Thursday afternoon. A man was seriously injured in a shooting at an apartment complex in Fort Wayne, Ind., Friday afternoon.
Jimmy Johnson, 34, was found shot and killed in a car in Winnsboro, La., late Wednesday. A man is recovering after being shot in south Memphis, Tenn., early Friday. A man was found shot and wounded in a motel parking lot following a robbery in south Houston, Tex., early Friday. Marchell Baker, 26, was gunned down in the driveway of a home in Melbourne, Fla., Thursday night. Delano K. Blair, 30, was found shot multiple times and killed in the front yard of a home in northeast Nashville, Tenn., Friday morning.
A 20-year-old pregnant woman was shot twice in the head and wounded after arguing with her boyfriend at her Baton Rouge, La., apartment early Friday. A man was shot and wounded by his girlfriend's ex-boyfriend in Baton Rouge Friday afternoon. Donald Ray Walls, 26, was shot multiple times and killed and another man was wounded during a drug deal gone bad in east Baton Rouge Friday night. A 22-year-old man is dead after a shooting at a Novi, Mich., apartment complex late Thursday.
A road rage incident left Oscar Rios, 19, shot and wounded on Highway 99 in Delano, Calif., Friday afternoon. A man was shot in the chest with a shotgun after an altercation on a Reno, Nev., street Friday afternoon. A 24-year-old man was shot to death in north Berkeley, Calif., Thursday night. Robert Jacobsen, 85, fatally shot his wife and himself at their Sun City, S.C., home Friday afternoon. A man was found lying dead in the street near a park in west Louisville, Ky., Friday night.
DeAndre Peterson, 24, showed up at a Daytona, Fla., hospital with two gunshot wounds Thursday evening and told police he was "caught in the crossfire." A 55-year-old woman was shot in the buttocks and a 15-year-old boy was grazed in the hip after shots rang out in Jersey City, N.J., Thursday night. Joseph A. Hewitt accidentally shot himself in the groin with a gun he kept in his waistband at a motel in Schenectady, N.Y., Friday night.
McKayla Hopkins, 18, was shot and killed while attending a party where teens were showing off a gun in Warren, Ohio, Friday night. 36-year-old Craig Glen was found shot and killed in a home in Heyburn, Idaho, Friday afternoon. Matthew Andujar, 22, was shot and killed at an Orlando, Fla., apartment complex Friday afternoon. A young man was shot in the leg while walking in Norristown, Pa., Thursday night.
Six people were shot in four separate shootings in New York City Friday night, including 10-year-old Briana Palmer, who was caught in a hail of bullets while walking her dog in the Far Rockaway section of Queens; a 32-year-old man shot and killed after a fistfight escalated to gunfire in the Bed-Stuy section of Brooklyn; 19-year-old Kahleed Adams, who was approached by a group of men in the Bronx and shot in the head; and three people hospitalized with bullet wounds after someone opened fire in the Canarsie section of Brooklyn.
Six people were wounded in shootings in Chicago, Ill., overnight, including a 27-year-old man shot in the shoulder while walking to his car; a 40-year-old man and 19-year-old man wounded when someone fired toward them at least seven times; a 36-year-old man shot in the East Garfield Park neighborhood; a 20-year-old man shot in the Lawndale neighborhood; and a 54-year-old man shot in the Woodlawn neighborhood on the South Side.
 Saturday:
One person died and nine people were injured in six separate shootings in Milwaukee, Wis., overnight, including a 41-year-old man caught in the crossfire while working on a car and a 27-year-old man fatally shot after a fight. Six people were shot in five separate shootings within an eight-hour period in Cleveland, Ohio, early Sunday. Five people were shot outside a home on the west side of Detroit, Mich., Saturday, including an 8-year-old boy, a 16-year-old girl and three adults.
A man was shot and wounded in a parking lot in an apartment complex in Lancaster, S.C., Saturday night. One person was shot in the stomach and wounded in a car in Hartford, Conn., early Saturday. A boy was wounded in a shooting on the south side of Bethlehem, Pa., Saturday afternoon. 23-year-old Deandre Lewis was found shot in the head and killed inside an SUV in a parking lot in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio, Saturday morning.
Jimmy Bernard Tinsley, 36, was killed and Brandon Denzel Eggleston, 21, was injured in a shooting in a parking lot at an Econo Lodge in Martinsville, Va., early Saturday. Daniell Simmons, 26, was shot in the stomach and Kevin Hanna, 22, was shot in the head at an apartment complex in Augusta, Ga., Saturday afternoon. Carl Jackson, 31, sustained a gunshot wound to his chest and Lena Williams, 32, was shot in both legs by someone wielding an assault rifle at a house party in Columbus, Ga., early Saturday.
Malcolm Graham, 41, was fatally shot outside a lounge on the east side of Indianapolis, Ind., early Saturday. Bryant Ballard, 46, was found lying outside a home suffering from fatal gunshot wounds to his head and back in St. Louis, Mo., Saturday morning. A woman was shot in the thigh after a dispute with a man in southeast Houston, Tex., Saturday. 33-year-old Shaun Hibbard was found fatally shot in the front yard of a Fitchburg, Mass., home following an argument early Saturday.
A 33-year-old man died of a gunshot wound to the chest and a 32-year-old man was shot in the ankle in Queens, N.Y., Saturday morning. A 27-year-old security guard was shot in the leg while working the door at a nightclub in the Tenderloin district of San Francisco, Calif., early Saturday. A shooting injured three people in San Francisco's Bayview District Saturday afternoon. Later that night in the same area, a man in his 20s was shot in the torso.
19-year-old Dantrell Clark was shot and wounded following an argument in a hotel parking lot in Greensboro, N.C., early Saturday. A man was fatally shot in Anaheim, Calif., in what police said was a gang-related shooting early Saturday. A 19-year-old woman was shot and killed in downtown San Jose Calif., by a bullet fired at someone else early Saturday. A man was killed after another man opened fire in a packed Joliet, Ill., restaurant as he sat with his wife and two young daughters Saturday morning.
Broadus White Jr., 38, died from a gunshot wound to the chest at Time Out Bar and Lounge in Honea Path, S.C., early Saturday. Zach Sheridan, 24, a former college football standout, was shot and killed near a Dunkin' Donuts in the Oakland section of Pittsburgh, Pa., early Saturday. Alex Bridge, 22, was shot and killed at an apartment complex in New Milford, N.J., early Saturday. 20-year-old Laron Daquan Davis was killed and another man was injured in a shooting in Norfolk, Va., early Saturday.
Malcolm Graham, 41, was shot and killed outside a bar on the north side of Indianapolis, Ind., early Saturday. Christian and Joseph Hernandez, two 19-year-old brothers, were injured in a drive-by shooting on the east side of Lodi, Calif., late Saturday. Floyd Devin Clegg, 23, and Qualin Hayden, 19, were shot and killed in an apartment in Hugo, Okla., Saturday night. A man was shot and killed in northwest Oklahoma City early Sunday.
A 34-year-old man and a 46-year-old woman were shot at an apartment complex in New Rochelle, N.Y., Saturday night. One person died after a shooting in north St. Louis, Mo., Saturday afternoon. In two separate shootings in St. Louis that night, two people were shot in the leg. Juan Rodriguez-Torres, 33, was shot and killed in Lebanon, Pa., late Saturday. 52-year-old Barry Church was shot in the underarm and killed and a 19-year-old man was shot in the leg and wounded in Trenton, N.J., late Saturday.
Richard Russell was shot and killed by two masked suspects in a possibly drug-related homicide in Tampa, Fla., late Saturday. Scott Thompson, 47, was shot several times and killed in west Baltimore, Md., Saturday afternoon. In two separate shootings in Baltimore the same day, a 31-year-old man was shot in the back and another man was shot in the face during a robbery attempt.
24-year-old Zachary Sheridan was shot in the throat and killed after an argument at a popular hot dog shop in Pittsburgh, Pa., early Saturday. A man was shot in the head and critically wounded in the Central City neighborhood of New Orleans, La., Saturday morning. A 31-year-old man was shot during a dispute over a pack of cigarettes in Lancaster, S.C., Saturday evening. Jesus Davila, a Pima County, Ariz., sheriff's deputy, was shot in the leg at a Circle K in Tucson Saturday night.
 Sunday:
A 2-year-old girl was shot in the back and seriously injured at a home in Danville, Va., Sunday afternoon. A 6-year-old boy riding in a car with his mother was among 21 people shot, two fatally, since Friday afternoon in Chicago, Ill. A man was shot and wounded near a crowded park in Lexington, Ky., Sunday night. 29-year-old Kim Moore was shot and killed by her boyfriend, 33-year-old Reginald Greenwich, in an Orlando, Fla., apartment early Sunday.
A 35-year-old man was shot multiple times and killed while paying his respects after a death in his family in the Village Green neighborhood of south Macon, Ga., early Sunday. A shooting at a New Orleans, La., intersection left a 28-year-old man dead early Sunday. One person was shot after a drug deal became a robbery in Sandy, Utah, early Sunday. A 29-year-old man died after being shot in the stomach in Yakima, Wash., Sunday morning.
A 19-year-old man was found shot and killed in the parking lot of a Wilmington, Del., community center Sunday evening. Two people were injured in separate shootings in Saginaw, Mich., early Sunday. Michael Marshall, 27, was wounded in a drive-by shooting while riding his bike in Grand Rapids, Mich., Sunday afternoon. One person was shot in the wrist during a random shooting at Club Platinum in Richmond County, Ga., early Sunday.
Two people were wounded in a shooting in Shreveport, La., Sunday night. 32-year-old Tommy Butler Jr. was found shot and killed in the parking lot of an after-hours nightclub in Columbus, Ohio, early Sunday. Jone Vang, 21, believed to be a member of a street gang, was found shot dead outside Shotgun's Saloon in Tulsa, Okla., early Sunday. Derrick Jackson, 22, was shot in the foot during an argument with a co-worker at a local barber shop in Augusta, Ga., Sunday afternoon.
A man was found in the parking lot of an apartment complex with a fatal gunshot wound to the neck in Warr Acres, Okla., early Sunday. One person was shot and critically injured inside a home in St. Louis, Mo., early Sunday. A man was shot and wounded in an alley after an altercation that began in a convenience store in Bristol, Conn., Sunday night. One man was shot dead and another was wounded in the unincorporated area of Westmont, Calif., early Sunday, four days after a fatal shooting in the same area.
A 38-year-old man was shot in the head and wounded at the Hog Pin bar in the community of McNair in east Harris County, Tex., early Sunday. James Robinson, 27, arrived at a Des Moines, Iowa, emergency room with a gunshot wound to the leg early Sunday. A shoot-out at a block party in Kansas City, Mo., left three people injured and a 19-year-old dead early Sunday. A car-to-car shooting in the Oak Park section of San Diego, Calif., left a man injured Sunday afternoon.
A man was shot in the leg after a drive-by shooting in south Tucson, Ariz., Sunday afternoon. Two men were wounded, one critically, in a shooting in Fort Wayne, Ind., early Sunday. Police say a woman shot her son and daughter in a home in Gaston, N.C., Sunday afternoon. A man was shot and killed on the front lawn of his Visalia, Calif., home Sunday afternoon.
According to Slate's gun-death tracker, an estimated 6,837 people have died as a result of gun violence in America since the Newtown massacre on December 14, 2012.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); TRAYVON MARTIN SHOOTING (90%); SELF DEFENSE (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); HOMICIDE (74%); ROBBERY (66%); BANK ROBBERY (63%); RACIAL PROFILING (55%); RACE & RACISM (55%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (53%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (52%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (50%) Gun Report

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (77%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (69%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (66%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



161 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: The Seed of Obstruction

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: Over the last two decades, legislative accountability and compromise on economic policy has been trumped by the calculation of raw political power, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
While you were just getting the Sunday morning coffee going, I was arguing about the Clinton 1993 budget with a panel on "Up With Steve Kornacki" on MSNBC (in twosegments). Why, you might ask, would someone get up at the crack of a weekend dawn to look back at a 20-year-old budget bill?
Fair question. But Mr. Kornacki had what I thought was an interesting angle on the lasting importance of this two-decade old vote. Republican opposition was totally unified against the first Clinton budget, which raised income, corporate and energy taxes, as well as taxes on Medicare and Social Security. And it's a piece of cake to find the opposition making countless predictions of dire economic and fiscal outcomes - basically, that job loss, recession and deficits would result from the budget, which barely squeaked through both houses. 
Those predictions were not just wrong, they were 180 degrees wrong. Economic growth was strong, productivity accelerated, unemployment fell below 4 percent, and while inequality continued to increase in the 1990s, the benefits of said growth were more broadly shared than before or since. And, of course, the budget reached a surplus in 1998.
These results were not all or even largely because of budget changes. There are, as was pointed out in the segment, always lots of moving parts. But there can be no credible, accountable argument that the tax increases prevented these gains. And there can be no credible, accountable argument that the opposite approach to fiscal policy - the supply-side tax cuts of the Bush years - led to the far less positive growth and job outcomes in the 2000s expansion. 
All that is pretty well known, though still contested, as you'll see in the MSNBC discussion. And it's that point - "still contested" - where the analysis turns from economic to political. The unified opposition to the 1993 budget - a budget that was not particularly popular - is widely viewed as helping the Republicans' 1994 takeover of the House for the first time since 1954. Forget accountability and facts. From the perspective of the outcome that matters most - not jobs, investment or deficits, but raw political power - the Republicans' strategy worked.
Mr. Kornacki's argument is that this was a long-lasting teaching moment. The economic and fiscal lessons that a rational person would take from Bill Clinton vs. George W. Bush matter not at all. They are an inconvenience to be explained away by citing other moving parts at best and endlessly reciting false talking points at worst. The important lesson is that if we stick together in opposition, regardless of the facts, we win. 
Mr. Kornacki put up a figure showing the 2009 stimulus vote, supported by no House Republicans. He could have cited the 40 or so votes taken to repeal the Affordable Care Act, despite the early evidence that it already appears to be having its intended effect, most notably in states that are carrying out the law in good faith.
Now, I don't know that you can accurately carbon-date 20 years ago as the day facts left the building. But I do think you can conclude that the inability of the current United States political system to absorb factual analysis and to compromise on solutions is solidly behind our dysfunction. Mr. Kornacki may be right that an important and destructive seed was planted that day, one that has since flowered into a foul and poisonous plant.
What we need now is some serious thinking on what it will take to kill that plant and clear the path back to functionality.

        
Immigration and Fiscal Policy
        
What Your Tax Dollars Are Buying
        
When Tax Cuts Were a Tough Sell
        
Balancing the Budget, for Real
        
Who Abandoned the Health Insurance Credit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); DISMISSALS (67%); PRODUCTIVITY (66%) Federal Budget (US); Federal Taxes (US); House of Representatives; Kornacki, Steve; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



162 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Aug. 5: Where the Candidates Are Today

BYLINE: JOSEPH BURGESS


HIGHLIGHT: The candidates&#8217; daily campaign schedule at a glance. 

 BODY:
Planned events for the mayoral candidates, according to the campaigns and organizations they are affiliated with. Times are listed as scheduled but frequently change.
Nicholas Wells contributed reporting.
Event information is listed as provided at the time of publication. Details for many of Ms. Quinn events are not released for publication.
 John A. Catsimatidis 
Republican 
7:45 p.m.
Greets the audience at a performance of "The Little Flower," a one-man play about Fiorello La Guardia, at the Di Capo Theater on the Upper East Side. Mr. Catsimatidis said in an interview with Larry King earlier this year that he aspired "to be a 21st-century La Guardia."
 Bill de Blasio 
Democrat
7:30 a.m.
Greets morning commuters at the Clinton-Washington subway station with his wife, Chirlane McCray, in Brooklyn.
11 a.m.
Joins Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez and nurses from the New York State Nurses Association for a rally and march to save Long Island College Hospital, across the street from the hospital in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn.
12:30 p.m.
Begins a five-day tour focused on growing different sectors of New York City's economy, including the technology, manufacturing, design, film and television sectors, all in an effort to connect New Yorkers with good jobs across the city. The tour begins outside Mobile Commons, a technology company that helps its clients with mobile messaging campaigns, on Washington Street in Brooklyn.
6 p.m.
Is one of five candidates to greet voters at the Martin Luther King Jr. Concert Series' annual Caribbean night, along with Dr. Una Clarke; his wife, Chirlane McCray; and his children, Chiara and Dante de Blasio, at Wingate Park in Brooklyn.
 John C. Liu 
Democrat
7 a.m.
Greets morning commuters at the Broadway Junction subway station in Brooklyn.
11:45 a.m.
Meets with seniors at the Inwood Senior Center in Upper Manhattan, the first of three senior centers he intends to visit on the day.
12:05 p.m.
Meets with seniors at the Dyckman Senior Center in Upper Manhattan, the second of three senior centers he intends to visit on the day.
12:30 p.m.
Meets with seniors at the Washington Heights and Inwood Y Senior Center in Upper Manhattan, the third of three senior centers he intends to visit on the day.
4 p.m.
Holds media availability after the Campaign Finance Board decides whether to grant Mr. Liu's campaign public matching funds, in Lower Manhattan.
6 p.m.
Participates in a District Council 37 Town Hall, which includes Lillian Roberts, the District Council 37 executive director, as she discusses the future of New York City Housing Authority properties, at Ocean Bay Housing Development Community Center in Far Rockaway.
8:20 p.m.
Attends an iftar, the traditional evening meal that Muslims share to break their fast during Ramadan, at Al Madina Masjid in the East Village.
9:30 p.m.
Is one of five candidates to greet voters at the Martin Luther King Jr. Concert Series' annual Caribbean night, featuring Morgan Heritage, Kes the Band and Mighty Sparrow, at Wingate Park in Brooklyn.
 Joseph J. Lhota 
Republican
10 a.m.
Visits the Great Kills Friendship Club on Staten Island with Assemblyman Joe Borelli and Councilman Vincent Ignizio, one of five mayoral candidates visiting senior centers on the day.
12:15 p.m.
Kicks off his citywide small-business tour by visiting the JAD Corporation, a janitorial supply company, in College Point, Queens.
2 p.m.
Continues his citywide small-business tour by visiting Ministar Restaurant and Gourmet Deli, in Astoria.
 Christine C. Quinn 
Democrat
7:30 a.m.
Greets morning commuters outside the Delancey-Essex Street subway station, on the Lower East Side.
 Some of Ms. Quinn's events may not be shown because the campaign declines to release her advance schedule for publication. 
 William C. Thompson Jr. 
Democrat
11:30 a.m.
Meets with members of the Far Rockaway Jewish community, at Yeshiva Darchei Torah in Far Rockaway.
2:15 p.m.
Holds a news conference to call for a city investigation into Sun Bright Hotel, a secret tenement in Chinatown described in The New York Post on Sunday as a "human kennel" because of its vermin-filled rooms and trash-laced hallways, all going for $10 a night, outside the Sun Bright Hotel in Chinatown.
7 p.m.
Is one of five candidates to greet voters at the Martin Luther King Jr. Concert Series' annual Caribbean night, featuring Morgan Heritage, Kes the Band and Mighty Sparrow, at Wingate Park in Brooklyn.
 Anthony D. Weiner 
Democrat
11:30 a.m.
Meets with seniors at the Elmhurst Senior Center in Manhattan, one of five mayoral candidates visiting senior centers on the day.
1 p.m.
Continue his "Keys to the City" tour by announcing what his campaign bills as 61 new ways to keep New York the capital of the middle class, at Gantry Plaza State Park Promenade in Queens.
6 p.m.
Greets evening commuters at the Atlantic Avenue-Barclays Center subway stop, in Brooklyn.
7:30 p.m.
Is one of five candidates to greet voters at the Martin Luther King Jr. Concert Series' annual Caribbean night, featuring Morgan Heritage, Kes the Band and Mighty Sparrow, at Wingate Park in Brooklyn.
 Sal F. Albanese 
Democrat
12 p.m.
Visits the Northside Senior Center in Brooklyn with his wife, Lorraine, the first of two senior centers he intends to visit on the day.
12:30 p.m.
Visits the Pete McGuinness Senior Center in Brooklyn, again with his wife, Lorraine, the second of two senior centers he intends to visit on the day.
3:45 p.m.
Answers questions from reporters from the Center for Community and Ethnic Media, one of the last candidates to take part in this series, at the CUNY Graduate School of Journalism.
 Adolfo Carrin Jr. 
Independent
5:30 p.m.
Is one of five candidates to greet voters at the Martin Luther King Jr. Concert Series' annual Caribbean night, featuring Morgan Heritage, Kes the Band and Mighty Sparrow, at Wingate Park in Brooklyn.

        
Aug. 4: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
Aug. 3: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
Aug. 2: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
Aug. 1: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
July 31: Where the Candidates Are Today

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (89%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); FILM (70%); TEXT MESSAGING (65%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (63%); RAMADAN (61%); RELIGION (60%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); THEATER (56%) Elections, Mayors; New York City; NYC 2013; NYC 2013 Events

PERSON: JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (76%); NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



163 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Today in Small Business: Answering Health Care Questions

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Solving start-up challenges. Businesses someone else should start. Foursquare&#8217;s tips versus Yelp&#8217;s reviews. 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.
Health Care
 The White House introduces a health care Web wizard to help individuals and small businesses answer Affordable Care Act questions. 
Jobs
 The economy added 162,000 jobs in July. The unemployment rate declined, but the employment rate remains flat. A report from Intuit says small-business employment declined in July, but a report from ADP said that small businesses created 82,000 jobs and manufacturers added 6,000 workers in July, ending four months of declines.
 Lisa Chow believes there are the four reasons Americans are leaving the workforce, including: "They're staying home with the kids. In the 1970s and '80s, the labor force participation rate rose sharply, as it became more common for mothers to work. Some of the recent decline has come as parents in dual-income households decide that the cost of day care outweighs the benefits of work."
 This is the scariest jobs chart ever. 
Finance
 American small business-borrowing dropped but modest growth is expected, according to the Thomson Reuters/PayNet Small Business Lending Index.
 A 14-year-old guitarist turns Vivaldi into a beautiful face-melter.
Management
 Guru Gowrappan says that "C.E.O.s rushing the process" are one of three ways that small, growing companies mess up their acquisitions.
 Sharon Greenthal explains how being a stay-at-home mom helped her as an entrepreneur.
Start-Up
 Shellye Archambeau says technology can help solve four start-up challenges, including hiring talented employees.
 Paul Brown suggests three ideas for a business he hopes someone else will start, including: "Why doesn't someone offer me 'slow-growing grass seed,' something that will require me to cut the lawn every six months instead of every six days. I can't believe it will be all that hard to create, given the advances in genetic engineering."
 Dr. Michal Tsur explains how a start-up can triple its customer base in a year or less.
People
 More employees are running errands during work hours.
 Jay Z gives a $50,000 bonus to his employees.
 Jordan Graves offers ways to improve your summer office morale.
 Hope and Rosey are not actually "people" - but they are very excited to get their dinner.
Social Media
 Twitter hands down new rules to beat abusive talk.
 Foursquare's tips are reportedly growing faster than Yelp's reviews.
 Pinterest will now send price alerts to help your customers (and you) save money.
Marketing
 A study finds that the United States is now consuming more digital media content than television.
Technology
 Dan Rowinski suggests 10 things to know about the Moto Xsmartphone.
Contests
 Intuit announces a contest in which a lucky small business will get a fully paid Super Bowl commercial.
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Pay Cash
        
This Week In Small Business: Mibblio, Kaggle and Shodogg
        
This Week In Small Business: The Employer Mandate
        
This Week in Small Business: Firing the Founder
        
This Week in Small Business: Analytics and Hashtags

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); WORKPLACE MORALE (70%); BONUS PAY (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); SPORTS MARKETING (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%) Labor and Jobs; Small Business; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: INTUIT INC (57%)

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (57%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



164 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Someone Tell Cantor: The Deficit Is Shrinking

BYLINE: JULIET LAPIDOS


HIGHLIGHT: On Fox News Sunday, Eric Cantor defended his party&#8217;s shenanigans with the debt limit by arguing that the &#8220;ultimate problem&#8221; is the &#8220;growing deficit.&#8221; 

 BODY:
On Fox News Sunday, Chris Wallace asked Eric Cantor, the House Majority Leader, for a preview of what will happen the next time Congress needs to raise the debt ceiling. It was a remarkable exchange, in part because Mr. Cantor made a remarkable error. 
WALLACE: [W]hen you come back from your five-week recess, you have only nine legislative days until the end of September, when the government runs out of money, funding shuts down. First of all, do you support a short-term extension, a continuing resolution to give you more time to work out a deal, and what's the basis for a real deal to fund the government and to raise the debt limit?

CANTOR:Well, yes. I think most conservatives, most on the left, Republicans, Democrats alike say we shouldn't be for a government shutdown. What we are trying to do is fund the government and make sure also that we take away the kinds of things that are standing in the way of a growing economy, a better health care. And all the while keeping our eye focused on trying to deal with the ultimate problem, which is this growing deficit. And that means when we get to the issue of the debt ceiling, it's not some sort of fictional process or just a process that we go through. What raising the debt limit means, it's increasing the credit limit. For too long now, Washington has disregarded the fact that that does - what that does is it burdens our kids and theirs. And we actually are digging the hole deeper for the next generation.
For your convenience, we've highlighted the mistake. Mr. Cantor appeared to be defending his party's shenanigans by arguing that the "ultimate problem" is the "growing deficit." The thing is, the deficit is not growing. It is shrinking.
The White House budget office announced in July that the federal budget deficit will fall to $759 billion this fiscal year. That's equivalent to 4.7 percent of the gross domestic product, down from 10 percent four years ago. As Jonathan Weisman reported in The Times, "the annual midsession review from the White House Office of Management and Budget was largely in line with a recent forecast from the Congressional Budget Office. Both see a rapid decline in deficits expressed as a percentage of the economy, the fastest since the years following World War II."
Granted, this trend won't last: "The White House projected the deficit to bottom out at $496 billion in 2018, then start ticking back up to $593 billion in 2022." But Mr. Cantor didn't say that - he suggested that the deficit was growing now. Did he miss the memo? Did he mix up the debt and the deficit? Or did he figure his position would sound more reasonable if he strayed from the truth?

        
The Low Standards for Cooperation in Congress
        
The Winning Recipe: Attack, Attack, Attack
        
Ted Cruz: The 'Schoolyard Bully'
        
Guns and Money
        
Look Who's Taking a Pay Cut

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Cantor, Eric; Federal Budget (US); Featured Posts

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (94%) Cantor, Eric

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



165 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: The Dangers of a Sensationalist Portrayal of Veterans

BYLINE: DAVID EISLER


HIGHLIGHT: There is an incongruity here between society&#8217;s respect for the military and its fear of the ways military life can reshape people. 

 BODY:
If you listen closely to the national conversation about today's veterans, you will hear two stories that seem to be at odds with each other.
One story is about healthy, hard-working, disciplined, well-trained and experienced veterans who would be an asset to any business or organization. The other tells of broken, disabled, traumatized veterans who have physical and behavioral health issues and require constant care and supervision.
While advocates and groups are making the case that businesses should hire veterans because they are mostly of the first type, their voices are often undermined by the widespread belief that most veterans fall into the second category, which is only true for a minority. For those without serious issues, the perception that all veterans are struggling has become a stigma that has been difficult to shake. 
Survey after survey suggests that the United States military is one of the most respected institutions in American society.
A Gallup poll in January indicated that 74 percent of Americans are satisfied with country's military strength and preparedness. The military is the only institution to see a notable gain in public confidence since Gallup began taking measurements in the 1970s, while other institutions like big business, the church and Congress have seen their numbers steadily decline.
Another recent survey from Harvard's Institute of Politics showed that among young Americans, the military is the only national institution to maintain its level of trust in the last three years, while trust in the media, Wall Street and all levels of local and federal government has dropped.
But while institutional confidence and trust remain high in abstract terms, the military as a profession struggles to convince much of society that it is a desirable profession. Although military recruitment has broadly met its goals despite the toll of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, a Pew Research study found that 43 percent of people without a family member who had served on active duty would not recommend the military as a career. I suspect that a large part of that view is a result of concerns that most veterans come home forever scarred by their experiences.
There is an incongruity here between society's respect for the military and its fear of the ways that military life can reshape people. I believe part of that fear can be traced to the small proportion of Americans in uniform. When so few people are directly connected to those who serve, stereotypes gain traction. And they are easy to sensationalize with eye-catching headlines about post-traumatic stress disorder and difficulties readjusting to civilian life after years of war.
But here is something to consider: one story need not exclude the other. As anyone who has spent time in the world of soldiers and veterans knows, serving in war and enduring its hardships have made many veterans stronger. At the same time, that has also deeply and unquestionably affected them. So it is hardly out of the ordinary to imagine a veteran who could be an asset to a corporation or as a public servant, but who would also require some degree of care and attention outside work.
For many people with no direct relationship to the military, though, the competing depictions may present an unsolvable paradox. Without a deeper personal connection to someone who served, it can be difficult to comprehend a veteran's experiences and the role they should play back in civilian society.
The result? For years, the headlines about combat veterans with post-traumatic stress, high suicide rates, and other mental health issues may have made businesses reluctant to hire qualified veterans. That perception may in turn have contributed to the high level of veteran unemployment of recent years and created yet another barrier between civilians and veterans. When veterans struggle to adapt under the emotional and financial strain, the cycle only continues.
The truth lies somewhere in between. Military service changes everyone in some way, and while some veterans face significant challenges as they move to civilian life, others emerge stronger. Both sides vying for control of the story could vastly improve the national conversation by acknowledging the other side's existence. Trying to brand us as the "New Greatest Generation," as some have forcefully done in recent years, is not enough. Only by accepting that the portrayal has two sides can we help veterans and civilians talk to each other at a level above stereotypes and first impressions.

David Eisler was an active-duty officer in the Army from 2007 to 2012 and served in Germany, Iraq and Afghanistan with the Second Cavalry Regiment. He is now a graduate student at the Columbia University School of International and Public Affairs, where he is studying international security policy. 

        
A Veteran's Plea to President Obama
        
Wounded Soldiers Race to the South Pole
        
Guide to a Few Nonprofit Groups Providing Care to Veterans
        
How Cyberwarfare and Drones Have Revolutionized Warfare
        
A Blog That Kept Time in Afghanistan and Iraq Plans to Shut Down

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MENTAL HEALTH (71%); MILITARY RECRUITING (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Defense and Military Forces; Iraq; Iraq War (2003-11); Mental Health and Disorders; Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder; Suicides and Suicide Attempts; United States; United States Army; Veterans; A Soldier Writes; At War; Employment; health; Iraq War: 2003 - 2011; PTSD; Suicide; Voices

ORGANIZATION: United States Army

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%) Afghanistan; Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



166 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: How A-Rod Doesn't Add Up

BYLINE: DOUG GLANVILLE


HIGHLIGHT: Rodriguez&#8217;s numbers have become irrelevant in measuring who he is as a baseball player. 

 BODY:
Before I played a single game of professional baseball, I was a fan. If my brother and I weren't chipping the paint off our parents' garage door with wayward pitches during an extra-inning session of Wiffle ball, we were playing simulated games like Strat-O-Matic or baseball on our then popular '80s Intellivision video game system. 
When I reflect on the ways I connected with the game, I remember moments from my childhood. Meeting Tommy Lasorda in the Dodgers' hotel lobby in San Francisco, seeing Darryl Strawberry's debut at Shea Stadium, hearing Vin Scully or Joe Garagiola call the "Game of the Week." The voices, the players, the coaches, the stadiums. 
It is a sentiment that gets lost in the performance-enhancing-drug mess surrounding Alex Rodriguez, who today was suspended through the 2014 season (pending a possible appeal). Performance-enhancing drugs thrive in a baseball environment obsessed with the cantilever between pitcher and hitter, opportunity and failure, the home run and the glove man, the quantitative and the qualitative. With all of this balance, numbers often tip the scale, and when it's in a player's interest to use numbers to gain value, he will do so, especially if his contract depends on it. 
Strangely enough, I don't remember the numbers that accompanied those moments that helped turn baseball into a lifetime passion.

The Phillies were my favorite team, but I didn't know their record when I drove two hours to catch them at Veterans Stadium just after I had gotten my driver's license. I can't recall Steve Carlton's E.R.A. during September the year they won the World Series, or the final score of the game where I saw Harold Baines of the White Sox, who I'd never even heard of before, hit a triple and a home run at Yankee Stadium. But I do remember how I felt when the Phillies won the World Series in 1980, or when I met one of my favorite players, Garry Maddox, for the first time.
I'd like to think I am good with numbers, so memory is not the issue. Rather, despite baseball's obsession with counting and accumulating, what actually sticks and stands the test of time are the personal experiences we share with the game. 
This is not to deny that numbers are endemic to baseball's soul. We know 714. We know 56, maybe even 4,192, and we know who wore 42. We know the iconic numbers, but the day-to-day connection we make with teams and players comes instead from how closely we can touch the fabric of its train - just as when the Phillies catcher Bob Boone signed a photo card to me after I had mailed my first fan letter, for instance.
Now major league baseball is in overdrive, stalking the players who inflated those numbers most until they submit, with the zeal of a new convert who has seen the light.
That light now shines in Alex Rodriguez's direction, illuminating the emptiness of his choices. Statistically, his career rivals some of the best players of all time, but we've stopped talking about his numbers. His quantifiable performance is no longer part of the debate; his numbers have become irrelevant in measuring who he is as a baseball player.
It is the great trick that the game played on him. You can take performance-enhancing drugs to fool the game into believing that you dominated and endured. You can break records that seemed unbreakable. It can all lead to a contract that surpasses the gross domestic products of some nations. But as the drugs give your stats greater value, they take away everything else. They turn around and destroy the qualitative and sustainable inspiration you could have provided, maybe to fans like me when I was young. Numbers mean nothing when you stop knowing what they are actually counting and why. 
There used to be a reason we were counting. It helped build a story. Numbers allowed us to compare players within a generation or an era, and across leagues, countries and decades. They tallied how you ranked in any category and subcategory of your choosing. Or, better yet, in ways that may have mattered just to you in that quiet moment playing with your son in the backyard.
You accumulated because each chip was a singular flake of gold from the game. I had 1,100 hits in my career, but none were as magical as number 1, and none as emotional as numbers 999, 1,000 and 1,001, which all came the day my father died.
Numbers can have meaning because of what we bring to them. Their value, and meaning, may change over time. But when all that matters is the numbers as numbers, you have zeros.
Alex Rodriguez's numbers have been hollowed out by his choices. They have become transparent and weightless, like a glass lens that fell off the Hubble telescope tumbling into deep space. 
Yet his career can still have meaning if he sees the opportunity that is - barely - left in his grasp. The drugs will always taint his numbers, but they may have left him a chance to create something enduring that can be a source of hope for the game. Redemption is one important lesson the game has always imparted to its fans. Baseball is capable of forgiveness, as we have seen, but you have to make the gesture and ask for it. 
His probable appeal of the suspension will allow him to play again until his case is heard. He is buying time and also allowing his performance to speak for him while he waits. But when he does speak, will he ask the right question? 

        
Summer Blockbusters
        
Memory Chip
        
America's Pastime, Behind Bars
        
Offspring Training
        
The Long Walk Home

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); ATHLETES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (73%); COMPUTER GAMES (73%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (73%); DRIVERS LICENSES (64%) Baseball; Rodriguez, Alex; Doug Glanville

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (91%) Rodriguez, Alex

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



167 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: New York Tells Online Lenders to Abide by State's Interest Rate Cap

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Letters are sent to 35 online lenders for charging more than New York State&#8217;s 25 percent interest rate cap. 

 BODY:
Government authorities are homing in on a lucrative loophole that allows online lenders to offer short-term loans at interest rates that often exceed 500 percent annually, the latest front in a crackdown on the payday lending industry.
New York State's financial regulator joined the effort on Monday as he sent letters to 35 of the online lenders, instructing them to "cease and desist" from offering loans that violate local usury laws, according to documents reviewed by The New York Times. The regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky, ordered the lenders to halt the "illegal" loans within two weeks.
Mr. Lawsky's investigation is playing out as state and federal officials escalate a broader effort to rein in payday lenders and their practice of offering quick money, backed by borrowers' paychecks, to people desperate for cash.
It is an evolving battle. As New York and 14 other states have imposed caps on interest rates in recent years - New York outlaws any loans at rates above 25 percent - the lenders have migrated from storefronts to Web sites. From their online perch, where they reach consumers across the country, the lenders can skirt individual state laws. 
 "Illegal payday lenders swoop in and prey on struggling families when they're at their most vulnerable - hitting them with sky-high interest rates and hidden fees," Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said.
If the lenders are seen as violating the law, officials briefed on the matter said, the state has authority to either sue the companies or refer their actions to prosecutors.
New York is also widening its scrutiny to include the banks that enable the lenders to operate. The banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, are a critical link between consumers and payday lenders, state officials say. They allow the lenders to automatically withdraw monthly loan payments from borrowers' checking accounts through an electronic transfer system known as A.C.H., or Automated Clearing House.
On Monday, Mr. Lawsky enlisted 117 banks to block online lenders from tapping into checking accounts of New York residents. In a letter to the banks, he questioned why the A.C.H. network had allowed online payday lenders the "foot in the door" they needed to ensnare consumers.
"Banks have proven to be - even if unintentionally - an essential cog in the vicious machinery that these purveyors of predatory loans use to do an end-run around New York law," he said in the letter. Mr. Lawsky urged the banks to "work with us to create a new set of model safeguards and procedures" that will detect illegal loans.
While federal and state regulators have sued online lenders before, New York's scrutiny of the banks represents a new avenue.
Some banks, however, have started to tweak their practices. JPMorgan, for example, is now reporting lenders that try to make unauthorized withdrawals to the group that oversees the A.C.H. system. 
Mr. Lawsky has also pressured that group, Nacha, to take action. Nacha, formerly known as the National Automated Clearing House Association, is a nonprofit group that has previously said that banks have "no basis or information to make an independent judgment" about whether a withdrawal from a checking account is a "bona fide, legal transaction." 
A Nacha representative declined to comment.
Other federal and state authorities, including the Manhattan district attorney's office, are investigating the banks for permitting illicit withdrawals from customer accounts, officials briefed on the matter said. State authorities in Maryland, according to the officials, have also referred potential instances of wrongdoing by the banks to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
In his separate cease-and-desist letters, Mr. Lawsky took aim at lenders like Western Sky Financial and Advance Me Today, which currently advertises a loan carrying interest and fees amounting to 782 percent annually. Another company, Peak 3 Loans, once charged a 1,095 percent rate on loans, the officials said.
Advance Me Today and Peak 3 did not return requests for comment. A spokesman for Western Sky declined to comment on the investigation, but said that the company "complies with all applicable laws in its business practices."
The payday loan industry has long noted that it provides credit to consumers who may otherwise lack access to the financial system. The high interest rates, the industry argues, reflect the riskiness of the client and the short-term duration of the loan.
"Like many consumers nationwide, New York residents are looking for more affordable credit options than those currently offered in their state and are increasingly looking to the convenience of Internet for them," Peter Barden, spokesman for the Online Lenders Alliance, said in a statement. "Rather than restricting consumer choice, state officials should be focused on finding a federal solution to ensure consumers have access to the credit options they need and are demanding."
In addition to New York, other state regulators have also moved against online lenders for violating state usury laws.
 Arkansas's attorney general sued the operator of a number of online lenders, claiming that the firms were breaking state law that caps annual interest rates at 17 percent. Authorities in Maryland have also announced a series of cases, including as recently as last week, when it took action against MyCashNow.com, one of the 35 lenders that Mr. Lawsky singled out on Monday. MyCashNow could not be reached for comment.
In at least nine states, from Colorado to Missouri, regulators have penalized lenders with connections to Native American tribes. The lenders use these ties to claim that they are part of a "sovereign nation" immune from federal and state law.
 The Federal Trade Commission in April 2012 sued AMG Services, a company with tribal affiliations that was started by a racecar driver, accusing the company of tacking on inflated and undisclosed fees. In its defense, court records show, the company claimed that it was not under the regulator's jurisdiction, citing its affiliation with the tribes. Last month, the agency scored a victory in the lawsuit, which is still pending, when a district court judge ruled that the tribal affiliation did not shield the lender from the regulator's case.
 Western Sky, which says on its Web site that it operates "within the exterior boundaries of the Cheyenne River Sioux Reservation," is among the other targets.
 In April, it tangled with Oregon's department of Consumer and Business Services, which fined the lender over accusations that it trumpeted loans that came with interest rates of up to 342 percent "through an aggressive TV and radio advertising campaign." That action came on the heels of another lawsuit against the lender in 2011 from the Colorado attorney general, which claimed that Western Sky flouted state law through roughly 200 loans that exceeded the state's interest rate cap.
A spokesman for the company said, "Western Sky Financial is the largest private employer on the impoverished Cheyenne River Indian Reservation." 
 Western Sky also landed on Mr. Lawsky's radar after New York consumers complained about the company.
 Although Western Sky says its loans "are not available to consumers" in New York and other states with similar rate caps, it nonetheless lent $2,600 to Anne Diaz, a 44-year-old single mother who lives in Syracuse. Despite New York's 25 percent interest cap, she said Western Sky charged her a 135 percent annual interest rate in January.
 "I feel really desperate and pretty ashamed that I was duped into this," Ms. Diaz said.

        
JPMorgan and Wells Fargo Feel First Chill of Rising Interest Rates
        
Albany May Tighten Rein on Banking Consultants

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (91%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); BANKING LAW (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); RETAILERS (67%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Interest Rates; Lawsky, Benjamin M; Payday Loans; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (57%) Lawsky, Benjamin M

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



168 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Governor Intervenes at Last Minute to Forestall a New Bay Area Transit Strike

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- A strike by employees of the San Francisco Bay Area's main commuter railroad was averted at the last minute early Monday after Gov. Jerry Brown intervened in the stalled negotiations, guaranteeing service for seven days. But the negotiations, described by experts as unusually acrimonious, seemed likely to remain focused on two familiar issues: pensions and health benefits.
The two unions representing the 2,400 employees of the Bay Area Rapid Transit system, known as BART, are fighting to preserve their members' comparatively generous public pensions and health coverage. 
BART's management, leveraging the role played by public pensions in the fiscal calamities afflicting bankrupt cities like Detroit, Stockton, Calif., and Vallejo, Calif., are pushing workers to shoulder a bigger share.
Management's argument over benefits has resonated even here in the Bay Area, a region traditionally supportive of labor. Tellingly, few politicians, even those with close ties to labor, have come out in public support of the two unions in recent weeks.
Both sides have adopted hard lines on these two issues, even as some progress was being made on other sensitive topics, like wages.
''We often talk about the third rail of negotiations -- that's appropriate, particularly for BART,'' said Harley Shaiken, a labor expert at the University of California, Berkeley. ''But there's a fourth and fifth rail, and that's pensions and health care.''
The two unions, whose members include train operators, station agents, maintenance workers and others, staged a four-day strike in early July after their four-year contract expired. Under pressure from state mediators and with negotiations deadlocked, the management and the two unions, the Service Employees International Union and the Amalgamated Transit Union, agreed to a 30-day cooling-off period that restored service. That extension ended Sunday night.
Little progress in the negotiations was made in recent weeks, and both sides remained so far apart on key issues that union officials issued a three-day notice of a possible strike on Thursday. Commuters had been bracing for another stoppage at BART, which is used by 400,000 riders a day, when Mr. Brown intervened at the request of the railroad's management under a state law that allows him to step in -- but only once -- if a strike would cause significant disruption to public transportation or endanger public health.
Evan Westrup, the governor's spokesman, said in an e-mail, ''We wanted to exhaust all other options before pursuing this course of action.''
Arguing that the benefits of BART workers are more generous than those of other public workers in the Bay Area, management officials have pressed workers to start making contributions to their state pension plans and to increase their health insurance payments from the current level of $92 a month.
In the past, most people felt that they would benefit from labor's victories, but that is no longer the case, Professor Shaiken of Berkeley said.
''The unions say if they lose, the public will have to accept greater concessions, but that's not what is instinctively resonating right now,'' he said. ''If BART workers pay less for pensions than other workers, the attitude of many commuters is, 'Wait a minute -- why should they have it?' It's a central challenge for unions that goes beyond Vallejo, Stockton and Detroit.''
Union officials have argued that members deserve higher wages and have rebuffed efforts to reduce benefits because they accepted a wage freeze and other concessions in contract negotiations during the economic crisis in 2009.
''They're saying that because everybody's jumping off the pier, we should, too,'' Antonette Bryant, the president of the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1555, said of the management's demands on pensions. ''There should be some substance to their reasoning.''
Josie Mooney, a negotiator for the Service Employees International Union, said that the union's internal surveys, which have not been made public, show popular support for the unions' position on pensions and health coverage.
''We're not going to be in a race to the bottom,'' Ms. Mooney said. ''We believe everybody in this country deserves to have access to quality health care and deserves to retire with dignity.''
According to BART, train operators and station agents on average earn more than $70,000 a year in salary and overtime. BART has said that it needs to redirect revenue to upgrade the 40-year-old system, whose ridership is expected to grow to 750,000 to 2030.
The last time a governor took similar action was in 2001, when Gov. Gray Davis intervened to head off a potential BART strike.
''This action is not unusual, said William B. Gould IV, an emeritus professor of law and a labor expert at Stanford University. ''The statute provides for this mechanism, and the governor quite rightly saw this as a threat to the health and safety of the Bay Area.''
But Mr. Gould said that the impact of the panel that will now investigate the negotiations could be limited, because it cannot issue recommendations.
If an agreement is not reached within seven days, Mr. Brown will decide on management's request for a 60-day cooling-off period, during which negotiations and train service would continue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Riders to San Francisco boarded a Bay Area Rapid Transit train at the West Oakland Station on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); STRIKES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TRAINS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



169 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Striking Olympic Gold

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
Imagine this: it's the opening ceremony of the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi, Russia. A huge television event, watched the world over. The American Olympians join the proud march of nations. They're our emissaries, our exemplars. And as the television cameras zoom in on Team U.S.A., one of its members quietly pulls out a rainbow flag, no bigger than a handkerchief, and holds it up. Not ostentatiously high, but just high enough that it can't be mistaken.
Another American follows suit. Then another, and another. Within minutes the flags are everywhere in the American delegation, subtly recurring bursts of color and of honor, a gay-rights motif with a message: we're here in Russia to compete, but we're not here in Russia to assent. We have gay sisters. Gay brothers. Gay neighbors and friends and fans and probably teammates, and we reject the laws of a land that deems it O.K. to arrest them for speaking their truth or us for speaking up for them. 
This silent show of solidarity would wordlessly mock recently enacted Russian legislation against so-called propaganda of nontraditional sexual relations, which, let's be clear, doesn't mean gay recruitment pamphlets, as if such literature existed. It's more vague and potentially broad than that. It could mean something like ''Modern Family.'' It could mean logos and ribbons and, yes, flags: anything connoting pride rather than shame. Anything asserting that gay people aren't miscreants, predators, trash.
The law is an outrageous act of hatred in a country of nearly 145 million people that fancies itself a global leader and should know better. And as the American Olympians' imagined rebuke of it sank in, the country's authorities would be forced to stand by and seethe. Confronting the athletes would only heighten attention to what they're doing. For the duration of the opening ceremony, before the eyes of the world, our values, not Vladimir Putin's, would prevail.
Over the last two weeks, alarm over Russia's anti-gay campaign has grown louder, beginning with a must-read Op-Ed article by the playwright Harvey Fierstein in The Times. And there have been increasingly urgent calls for Americans to do something about that campaign, which extends to adoption regulations and tourist restrictions.
Fierstein has floated a boycott of the Olympics. There's precedent. Meantime, gay bars in the United States and other countries have heeded a plea from L.G.B.T. rights advocates to remove Russian vodka from their shelves, in the hope that economic pain will equal legislative pressure on Russia to repeal its anti-gay laws. Advocates have trained their ire on Stolichnaya vodka, or Stoli, in particular.
But that focus exposes a flaw in the vodka boycott, well intentioned but imprecise. ''While Stoli's ingredients -- wheat, rye and raw alcohol -- are Russian, the vodka itself is distilled in Latvia and distributed in the U.S. by William Grant & Sons USA, an American subsidiary of a Scottish corporation,'' a recent post on Time magazine's Web site noted.
As for an American boycott of the Olympics, it would punish athletes who've been training and dreaming and sacrificing for years. It might redirect the conversation from how Russia treats gays to whether the United States overreacted. And it would close off the kind of statement that American athletes have a thrilling opportunity to orchestrate. Maybe that statement isn't a flag but ''a visible pin, an armband, a bracelet,'' as Greg Louganis, an openly gay diver who won medals for the United States in three Olympics, recently suggested. Maybe it's something small stitched into the uniforms.
Leaders of the advocacy groups Athlete Ally and You Can Play and the Web site Outsports, all of which specifically promote L.G.B.T. sensitivity among athletes, oppose a boycott. ''History remembers the athletes who showed up,'' Patrick Burke, a founder of You Can Play, wrote in a post for BuzzFeed.
History would certainly remember American athletes who signaled their belief in the dignity of gays and lesbians, lending action to the sometimes hollow words that America serves as a beacon to the world, a city on a hill, a champion of human rights. History would also remember athletes from the many other countries that might be persuaded to follow our righteous lead.
Imagine rainbow flags or comparable symbols not just in the American delegation but in the British, French, Argentine and South African ones. Imagine what that would say and how that would feel to a 14-year-old girl watching from rural Oklahoma, where she worries hourly about her attraction to other girls and its impact on her future. Or to a 35-year-old gay man in one of the many African countries where homosexual acts are punishable with lengthy prison sentences or even death. Or to a lesbian or gay Russian of any age.
That's an Olympic moment to rival any quadruple toe loop. That's pure gold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (86%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (74%); WRITERS (70%); ADOPTION LAW (68%); FAMILY (65%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (62%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



170 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Sees Pension Crisis Drawing Near

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH; Monica Davey reported from Chicago, and Mary Williams Walsh from New York.

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Corporations are moving in, and housing prices are looking better across the region. There has been a slight uptick in population. But a crushing problem lurks beneath the signs of economic recovery in Chicago: one of the most poorly funded pension systems among the nation's major cities. Its plight threatens to upend the finances of President Obama's hometown, now run by his former chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel.
The pension fund for retired Chicago teachers stands at risk of collapse. The city's four funds for other retired city workers are short by $19.5 billion. At least one of the funds is in peril of running out of money in less than a decade. And starting in 2015, the city will be required by the state to make far larger contributions to the funds, which could leave it hundreds of millions of dollars in the red -- as much as it would cost to pay 4,300 police officers to patrol the streets for a year. 
''This is kind of the dark cloud that's coming ever closer,'' Mr. Emanuel said in a recent interview, adding that he had no intention of raising his city's property taxes by as much as 150 percent -- the price tag, he says, that it might take to pay such bills. ''That's unacceptable.''
Illinois lawmakers, who make key financing and benefit choices for Chicago's pension system, have wrestled for months without agreement on the politically troublesome matter of cutting the benefits of public sector retirees to save money. And last month, Moody's Investors Service downgraded Chicago's rating by an unexpected three notches as part of a broad reassessment of how pensions are affecting the financial strength of cities. That ''super downgrade,'' in the parlance of the bond market, left Chicago, the nation's third-largest city, with a lower rating than 90 percent of Moody's public finance ratings.
The financial woes of Detroit, which last month became the nation's largest city to file for bankruptcy protection, dwarf the financial issues here. But as Detroit makes its way through the federal court system, other cities, including Chicago, are wrestling with overwhelming pension liabilities that threaten to undermine their capacity to provide municipal services and secure their futures.
The pension system in Charleston, W.Va., is so depleted that retirees are being paid straight from the city budget, something experts say is unsustainable. School districts across Pennsylvania, including Philadelphia's, are stumbling as required contributions to a state-run teachers' pension system rise and education money from the state drops. Even prosperous San Jose, Calif., has a pension problem, leading residents last year to vote to slow the rate at which city workers build up their benefits.
Among the nation's five largest cities, Chicago has put aside the smallest portion of its looming pension obligations, according to a study issued this year by the Pew Charitable Trusts. Its plans were funded at 36 percent by the end of 2012, city documents say. Federal regulators would step in if a corporate pension fund sank to that level, but they have no authority over public pensions.
Chicago's troubles, experts say, were years in the making. They are the result of city contributions under a state-authorized formula that failed to accumulate nearly enough money, two economic downturns in the 2000s that led to heavy investment losses, and an impasse in the State Capitol despite urgent calls to cut costs of the state's own pension system. Illinois, which has the most underfunded state pension system in the nation, controls Chicago's benefit and funding levels.
In Springfield, which, like Chicago, is controlled by Democrats, leaders have clashed over how best to cut costs of the plans -- a notion that pits the lawmakers against labor unions, which have traditionally been allies.
By last week, top Democratic leaders in the legislature sued Gov. Pat Quinn, a fellow Democrat, after he announced he was withholding lawmakers' paychecks until they come up with a plan to fix the state's pension crisis. ''That was a drastic step but obviously a necessary one,'' Mr. Quinn said, describing the pension crisis as ''the biggest, most important economic challenge we'll ever have.''
State leaders have argued over the meaning of a state constitutional provision protecting government pensions in Illinois, and, in private conversations, over the potential political fallout from unions if benefits are cut. But Mr. Emanuel has openly called for increasing retirement ages, raising workers' contributions toward their own pensions and temporarily freezing inflation adjustments now paid to retirees, all of which amount, union leaders say, to benefit cuts.
Public sector union leaders have been enraged by Mr. Emanuel, who was at the helm in 2012 during this city's first teachers' strike in 25 years and who has announced plans to phase out city health care coverage by 2017 for some city retirees. A change in pension benefits could affect more than 70,000 people who worked as Chicago police officers, teachers, firefighters and others, and who now receive average annual benefits ranging from about $34,000 for a general-services retiree to $78,000 for a former teacher with 30 years of service.
Some labor leaders say the city, not the state, is ultimately responsible, arguing that Chicago leaders long ago should have begun planning how to pay for pensions promised to its workers, regardless of insufficient state contribution formulas.
''The city failed to fund this all along, and now Mayor Emanuel has made it clear he is going after the hard-working men and women on the Chicago Police Department to make up for that,'' said Michael K. Shields, president of the Fraternal Order of Police, who described Mr. Emanuel, simply, as anti-labor. ''He's trying to stiff us out of our pay.''
All sorts of political battles are emerging from the pension crisis. Candidates from both parties are seeking Mr. Quinn's job next year, many of them citing the state's inability to untangle the pension woes as reason to toss out those holding office. William M. Daley, another former chief of staff for President Obama and now a Democratic candidate for governor, said in an interview, ''Anyone who thinks that this is just a problem on paper, those are the same people who looked at Detroit 20 years ago and said, 'Don't worry about it, we can handle it.' ''
Mr. Emanuel has made clear his plans to seek a second term as mayor in 2015, and no major challenger has emerged so far. But the city's looming pension debt -- and the bills that will balloon by election year -- may carry political fallout from unions as well as ordinary Chicagoans.
''Voters don't care about pensions as an abstract issue,'' said Dick Simpson, a former Chicago alderman and political scientist. ''What they care about are the effects over the next two years of having to cut services or raise taxes to pay for this.''
Over all, experts say Chicago's financial health has improved since the recession; city revenues are growing again and the population, which fell during the decade after 2000, has grown modestly since 2010. The city's general budget fund faces a potential shortfall of $339 million in 2014, but city officials say that gap is lower than initially expected and manageable.
Circumstances grow far more complicated a year later, when state law will require Chicago to pay significantly more -- $1 billion a year -- into the city's pension funds, to make up for years of underpayments. Even sooner, the Chicago Public Schools, which draws from the same tax base, is required to find an extra $338 million for its pension fund, and more every year after that.
Unless the legislature agrees to a complete overhaul of the pension plans, Mr. Emanuel said, he will not even entertain the notion of raising Chicagoans' taxes.
''What the system needs is a hard, cold dose of honesty,'' Mr. Emanuel said. ''I understand the anger. I totally respect it. You have every right to be angry because there were contracts voted on.''
He added: ''People agreed to something. But things get updated all the time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Rahm Emanuel plans to seek a second term in 2015, but he may face public anger if municipal services are reduced. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES)
Unions remain angry at the mayor, who was at the helm during the teachers' strike in 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY M. SPENCER GREEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Gov. Pat Quinn is being sued by lawmakers after suspending their pay pending a solution. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH PERLMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) CHART: A Rising Bill: In 2015, Illinois will require Chicago's taxpayers to make much larger contributions to five pension funds, including the one for retired teachers. (Sources: City of Chicago
 Civic Federation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BONDS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (87%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); PAT QUINN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



171 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Celebrated Texas State Senator Says Bid for Governor Is Possible

BYLINE: By EMMARIE HUETTEMAN; Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Wendy Davis, the Texas state senator who captured the national spotlight with an 11-hour filibuster against restricting abortion rights, turned up in Washington on Monday with the news that she was considering a run for governor.
''I can say with absolute certainty that I will run for one of two offices: either my State Senate seat or the governor,'' Ms. Davis said after a luncheon and speech at the National Press Club. 
It was Ms. Davis's second trip to Washington in as many weeks -- a period when she has met with staff members at the Democratic Governors Association, raised money at sold-out fund-raisers, turned up at parties around town and huddled with Emily's List.
The woman who turned pink sneakers into a symbol of resilience is under growing pressure from fellow Democrats to run.
''She would have very broad appeal, I believe, in Texas and across the country,'' said Martin Frost, a former Texas congressman who was once head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. ''I believe she could raise the money necessary to make this a race.''
Although Ms. Davis said to expect a decision about whether she would run within a couple weeks, at the National Press Club she looked like a candidate fine-tuning a political stump speech.
As attendees passed around plates of cookies -- shaped like Texas and frosted in the colors of its state flag -- she described her path from impoverished single mother to Harvard Law School graduate to state senator, barely glancing at her prepared remarks.
Although Gov. Rick Perry of Texas has announced that he will not seek re-election, Ms. Davis took aim at him anyway, accusing the long-serving Republican of trumpeting his state's relatively low unemployment rate of 6.4 percent while standing in the way of policies that would strengthen the state's economy.
''They travel to states as far away as California and New York trying to lure business to Texas while, at the same time, ignoring the needs in our community college and our higher education system to make sure that opportunities are available to all of our young Texans,'' Ms. Davis said, alluding to Mr. Perry's recent ''Texas Wide Open for Business'' advertisements. ''And soon, we know the consequence of that will be that ultimately we'll probably have to travel to other states to import brain power, too.''
But it is Greg Abbott, the state's attorney general, who is the early front-runner on the Republican ticket. Mr. Abbott announced his candidacy last month, after amassing a war chest of $18 million by the end of 2012 that has unnerved many Democrats.
Mr. Frost estimated Monday that Democrats would need to raise about $35 million to $40 million. During the last two weeks of June, Ms. Davis raised more than $930,000, much of it in small contributions after her filibuster, The Texas Tribune reported last month.
As her star rises, Ms. Davis has also been a boon to Texas Democrats, drawing national attention to a party desperate for the momentum to break out in a solidly red state. On Monday, she offered nods to her fellow Democrats, calling Mayor Julin Castro of San Antonio and Representative Joaquin Castro ''extraordinary'' and acknowledging the ''masterful'' help of her fellow Texas Democrats during her filibuster.
Bill Miller, an Austin-based lobbyist who knows Ms. Davis, said she was hesitant when he encouraged her to pursue statewide office earlier this year. But while he thinks Ms. Davis will ultimately decide to run, he said it would be a mistake to run for governor against Mr. Abbott.
''I think he is impossible to beat,'' Mr. Miller said.
But even as many in Texas said it would be a difficult fight, there is optimism among Democrats that Ms. Davis -- a two-term Democrat representing a conservative district -- might have a shot.
''I think there's great enthusiasm, and she's probably created more enthusiasm than any Democrat in Texas has created in decades as far as interest from around the country,'' said Ben Barnes, a former lieutenant governor and Texas House speaker.
Organizers expected 150 people to attend a fund-raiser in Washington for Ms. Davis on July 25, one month after her headline-catching filibuster, with $25 student tickets and $50 individual tickets selling out days in advance. But 400 people showed up, said Matt Angle, a longtime adviser to Ms. Davis and director of the Lone Star Project, a Democratic policy group.
''I saw Texans up here that I haven't seen in 10 years,'' Mr. Angle said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: State Senator Wendy Davis, Democrat of Texas, was a guest on Monday at the National Press Club in Washington. (A9)
 Cookies shaped like Texas and decorated like the state flag were offered at lunch on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ABORTION (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (84%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



172 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Sales and New Orders Bolster Growth in the Service Industry

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- American service industry businesses expanded in July at the fastest pace since February, driven by a brisk month of sales and a jump in new orders. The increase suggests economic growth could be picking up after a weak start. 
The Institute for Supply Management said on Monday that its index of service-sector growth rose in July to 56, up from 52.2 in June. Any reading above 50 indicates expansion.
The survey covers businesses that employ 90 percent of the work force, involved in activities like retailing, construction, health care and financial services.
A measure of business activity, which includes current sales, rose to 60.4. That is the highest reading since December and it was partly driven by faster home construction. And a measure of new orders, which indicates sales over the next few months, increased to 57.7, a five-month high.
Jennifer H. Lee, an economist at BMO Capital Markets, said 16 of the 18 industries surveyed reported growth in July, calling the report ''encouraging news for the broader U.S. economy.''
Paul Dales, a senior economist at Capital Economics, said the July gains in the service sector and a solid month of manufacturing growth, hinted the economy was growing at an annual rate of 3 percent in the July-September quarter. That is nearly double the rate in the previous quarter.
One concern is that a measure of employment at service companies fell in July. That echoed last week's government employment report that showed hiring had slowed in July. Employers added 162,000 jobs last month, the Labor Department said on Friday. Most new jobs were in low-paying industries -- half were at retail businesses or restaurants.
Service industry growth depends largely on consumers, whose spending drives about 70 percent of economic activity. On Friday, the government said consumer spending rose in June at the fastest pace in four months.
Though the economy grew at a tepid 1.7 percent annual rate from April through June, the service-sector activity follows reports that point to growth. Home sales and prices continue to rise, and Americans' confidence in the economy last month stayed close to a five-and-a-half-year high.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ORDERS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



173 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: A Plan Backed by Thompson to Invest Funds in Northern Ireland Ended at a Cost

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail:powellm@nytimes.com; Twitter: @powellnyt

 BODY:
It sounded like a perfectly grand idea.
In April 2008, the New York City comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., as investment officer for the city's multibillion-dollar pension funds, stood shoulder to shoulder and beaming with the Protestant leader Ian Paisley and the Catholic leader Martin McGuinness and announced that the city would pour $150 million into once war-torn precincts of Northern Ireland.
It is, Mr. McGuinness said, ''the ordinary people of the United States investing in the ordinary people of the North.'' 
Or not, as the case turned out.
Twenty months later, not a penny of that pension money had been invested in Northern Ireland. The new comptroller, John C. Liu, decided to pull the plug on the investment in January 2010.
The highly unusual decision to shut this ballyhooed investment fund carried a cost. The city paid a $3 million management fee to Emerald Infrastructure Development Fund, the little-known group of investors that had been chosen by Mr. Thompson's office to invest in Ireland. And Emerald Infrastructure, in turn, paid $250,000 of the city's money to William Howell, an old friend and generous campaign contributor to Mr. Thompson.
Mr. Howell served as the deal's placement agent, or in less polite parlance, the fixer. He brought money managers who wanted a slice of city and state pension business together with pension trustees and arranged fine talks over finer lunches and dinners. In 2009, New York City banned the use of placement agents after repeated scandals.
A journalist, Tom Robbins, unearthed Mr. Howell's small but lucrative role in The Village Voice in 2009. At that time, Mr. Thompson expressed surprise at his old friend's good fortune. ''I knew he had an involvement,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''I just didn't know he was the placement person.''
Mr. Thompson, who is running for mayor, plays up his role as steward of the city's money. In a long career in politics, his tenure as comptroller offers the best chance to draw his measure as an executive. Mr. Thompson took a personal interest in the Northern Ireland deal and helped shape it over the course of two years.
He argues, through a campaign staff member, that the deal foundered because the Irish economy imploded in 2008. Mr. Thompson, staff members said, was just one of more than 30 officials who signed off on the deal.
This is, perhaps, too neat a sidestep. Mr. Thompson was the chief investment officer for the city. Pre-eminent among officials, he was responsible for guiding pension investments.
And you wonder about the quality of his memory. Mr. Howell accompanied Mr. Thompson to Ireland in 2006, in what was essentially a dry run for this deal. And Mr. Howell sat in on some of the comptroller's discussions.
Back in this country, when Mr. Thompson's staff first crafted this deal, Mr. Howell was listed not as a placement agent but as a full-fledged partner in Emerald Infrastructure Development. That offered him a gilded path to many millions of dollars if the project was a success.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has a vote on the pension boards, and his staff objected. Mr. Howell, they noted, brought no investment expertise to this deal. ''For Howell to get compensated as though he were a general partner raised some red flags,'' Francis Barry, a spokesman for the mayor, said Monday.
Mr. Thompson's campaign denies that the mayor's staff raised these objections.
Emerald Development Managers, which ran the investment fund, sent several responses on Monday. At first, the company stated that Mr. Howell had no affiliation with it. Later, it acknowledged, the proposed deal had ''originally classified Mr. Howell as a partner.''
Mr. Howell did not return several phone calls. A long-ago aide to Mayor Edward I. Koch, Mr. Howell has worked in finance. New Mexico officials have sued Mr. Howell and other placement agents, charging that they unjustly enriched themselves in a pension-placement scandal.
Like clouds on a mountaintop, more mysteries cling to this Irish investment project.
This promised to be a difficult investment. There was a fragile peace, and investment, in green energy, in waste treatment, and infrastructure, was needed. And corporate taxes across the border in Ireland were less than half those of Northern Ireland.
For this project, Mr. Thompson's office recommended choosing a firm, Emerald Infrastructure Development Project, registered in the Cayman Islands and formed specifically to grab this investment contract. The chief executive officer, Neil L. Cohen, ran a small investment firm in the 1990s and helped found American Rock Salt, which delivers quite a bit of the rock salt used during New York City's winters.
Mr. Thompson's campaign lauded the principals of Emerald for their experience in ''complex structuring of project finance.'' Neither the campaign nor Emerald, however, provided examples of that expertise.
But none of the principals had much experience investing in Northern Ireland. City officials say that Emerald's original proposal did not even include an office in Northern Ireland.
Emerald's founders, however, were shrewd in their pursuit of the city's business. Mr. Cohen, Mr. Howell and another partner each gave $25,000 that year to the Ireland Funds, an influential American organization that promotes investment in Ireland, according to The Detail, an investigative publication in Ireland.
Officials with the Ireland Funds did not return phone calls.
In 2008, Mr. Thompson stood between Mr. Paisley, the Ulster loyalist, and Mr. McGuinness, the former Irish Republican Army chief, and said, ''They asked me to help.''
So he took ownership. The tricky part is the responsibility that comes with it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MAYORS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



174 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Moving Lock, Stock and Barrel

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
BRISTOL, Conn. -- Even gun makers want to be liked. So governors and other politicians from states eager to embrace the industry have descended on places where they are not so popular -- like Connecticut, Maryland, New York and Colorado -- offering tax breaks and outright cash grants to persuade them to relocate.
''I sensed an opportunity,'' said Alan Clemmons, a South Carolina state representative, who traveled to Connecticut in the spring as part of a successful effort to lure PTR, a maker of assault rifles here.
''They are not feeling loved right now in Connecticut. We're delighted to have them.'' 
In June, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and South Dakota's governor, Dennis Daugaard, toured Connecticut within days of one another, visiting sites like the Colt factory in Hartford, which the famed gun maker has called home for more than 150 years.
''Shooting and hunting and the outdoors is more of a culture and a way of life in South Dakota than in some larger metropolitan areas,'' said Pat Costello, the commissioner of the governor's Office of Economic Development in South Dakota. ''It's a target industry for us.''
The campaign has already won a few converts.
PTR is packing up its cutting machines and moving its work force of 50 to South Carolina, saying that tough new state gun laws enacted after the school shooting in nearby Newtown made it too risky to keep doing business in Connecticut.
Similar new laws in Maryland prompted Beretta to call off plans to add jobs locally, and the company is now completing plans to expand in a more gun-friendly state.
Kahr Firearms Group, a pistol and rifle maker based less than an hour's drive north of Manhattan in Rockland County, N.Y., is moving across the border to Pennsylvania.
''We don't feel welcome,'' said Frank Harris, vice president for sales and marketing at Kahr. In Pennsylvania, he said: ''All the people we were dealing with on the town level were hunters and comfortable with firearms. We were received with open arms.''
While the gun lobby successfully blocked new restrictions at the federal level, several liberal states have tightened restrictions on weapons sales and broadened background checks in response to the massacre in Newtown, where 20 students and 6 adults were killed in December 2012.
Some well-known gun makers like Sturm, Ruger & Company, which is based in Southport, Conn., have not chosen to abandon the Northeast, but are expanding elsewhere, straddling a broader cultural bifurcation in the United States when it comes to the Second Amendment and the role firearms should play in society.
For states that successfully woo firearms makers, it means new jobs in an industry where sales are rising rapidly and blue-collar work still pays well. ''They can't make guns fast enough,'' said Nima Samadi, a gun industry analyst with IBISWorld.
Investors have noticed too. Many big gun brands are privately owned, like Freedom Group's Remington and Bushmaster units, but shares of publicly traded Smith & Wesson have more than quadrupled in the last two years. The stock of Sturm, Ruger, which is one of the largest gun makers in the country and recently announced it would open its first big new factory in 25 years in North Carolina, has doubled over the same period.
Gun sales surged before the presidential election, Mr. Samadi said, and fears that some weapons might be banned after Newtown spurred sales further this year.
Figures for total gun sales in the United States are not available, but Mr. Samadi said one useful proxy was the number of background checks being performed before gun purchases. They totaled 2.5 million in January 2013, compared with 1.4 million in January 2012.
Beretta and PTR say they are struggling to keep up with demand, which is why PTR plans to double the size of its factory after the move to South Carolina from its cramped facility here. Workers at PTR earn an average of $17.50 an hour.
Beretta is also looking for a new factory site. Seven states have emerged as finalists, including South Carolina, Texas and Virginia.
''We've excluded states that have not shown consistent, strong support for Second Amendment rights,'' said Jeff Reh, Beretta U.S.A.'s general counsel.
Beretta's political litmus test is stringent.
West Virginia is out because Senator Joe Manchin, a Democrat, was a sponsor of legislation that would have expanded background checks nationwide; the bill failed to overcome a Republican filibuster in the Senate in April. Louisiana, hardly a liberal redoubt, did not make the cut because Senator Mary Landrieu, a Democrat, voted for Senator Manchin's bill and because the city of New Orleans sued to hold gun makers liable for damages back in 1998.
Sometimes, however, gun makers speak loudly but carry a smaller stick.
Beretta, which initially threatened to abandon Maryland altogether, ultimately decided to keep its factory in Accokeek, as well as the 300 workers there, but said it would add any new jobs elsewhere. Despite the planned factory in North Carolina, Sturm, Ruger's chief executive, Michael Fifer, recently told shareholders he did not plan to move its headquarters out of Southport, Conn. Sturm, Ruger did not return calls for comment.
Colt, the oldest gun maker in Connecticut, is staying, at least for now, said Gerald Dinkel, chief executive of Colt Defense, which focuses on weapons for the military and police. ''We were disappointed in the position Connecticut took,'' Mr. Dinkel said, but he added that he didn't see a direct impact yet on his business from the new law and therefore wasn't planning to move his 750 employees out of the state.
Other companies are following through on their threats, however.
Magpul, a Colorado maker of ammunition magazines and other accessories, says it will relocate more than 200 workers after the state banned magazines that hold more than 15 bullets. Two days before the law went into effect on July 1, Magpul organized a giveaway of 1,500 soon-to-be-forbidden 30-round magazines, attracting thousands to a gun rights rally in Glendale, Colo. Magpul hasn't announced where its new home will be, but company officials say it will be in a gun-friendly state.
Gun companies are getting more than just a public embrace from states when they move. Subsidies help sweeten the deal, along with looser regulation, the general absence of unions and lower costs -- factors that have drawn manufacturers in many other industries to the Sun Belt.
Josh Fiorini, PTR's chief executive, estimates it will be one-third less expensive to do business in South Carolina, with lower prices on everything from labor to electricity. Mr. Fiorini said state officials in Connecticut made little effort to persuade him to stay. The governor, in his public comments, has kept his distance from the industry.
''There's no reason for those companies to leave the state,'' Gov. Dannel P. Malloy told reporters in April. ''Obviously, that's their option. We'll work with people who work with us.''
For PTR, tax credits, cash grants and other incentives helped make the move to South Carolina worthwhile, Mr. Fiorini said. For one thing, PTR will not have to pay rent at the new facility near Myrtle Beach, S.C., while it still occupies the old factory in Bristol. Mr. Fiorini added that the incentive packages from Texas and South Dakota were also generous, but in the end he chose South Carolina in part because it was a shorter move.
''Were we all sort of pissed off about the legislation? Yes,'' he said. ''Were we pissed off enough to spend millions of dollars to move? No.''
Mr. Fiorini said his chief worry was that the new state law would ultimately make it impossible to legally make assault rifles in Connecticut, even if the legislation specifically restricted the sale, not the manufacture, of the guns.
For example, he said, the law permits assault rifles to be transported in Connecticut for the purposes of sale elsewhere. But what if they are being transported as part of the manufacturing process itself, like for painting or testing at the rifle range?
''It's a conservative reading of the law,'' Mr. Fiorini conceded. ''State officials will tell you that my fears are overblown. But why do I need to do business in a place where I have fears, overblown or otherwise? We'd rather be in a place with no gray areas.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Zygmnt Orol at work at the PTR Industries gun factory in Bristol, Conn., which builds about 75 rifles a day. (B1)
 Josh Fiorini, PTR's chief, above, looking for a place ''with no gray areas,'' is moving the factory to South Carolina. At left, Daniela Siracusa packs a PTR rifle for shipping. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); FIREARMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); CITIES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

COMPANY: STURM RUGER & CO INC (61%)

TICKER: RGR (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS331512 STEEL INVESTMENT FOUNDRIES (61%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (61%); SIC3324 STEEL INVESTMENT FOUNDRIES (61%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%); DENNIS DAUGAARD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



175 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: In Debate, Lesser-Known Candidates Struggle to Shake Booker's Confidence

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
MONTCLAIR, N.J. -- With just a week to go before the primary, the first debate among the four Democrats running for United States Senate in New Jersey had been regarded as a chance to shake up the dynamics of the race, allowing three lesser-known candidates to sharpen their differences with the front-runner, Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark.
But the debate Monday night seemed to preserve the status quo: the mayor confidently asserted himself as an alternative to politics as usual, two congressmen fought to establish themselves as different despite similar records, and the speaker of the State Assembly promoted her candidacy largely on the argument that it was wrong for a state whose population is more than half women not to have any women representing it in Congress. 
While the other candidates went after Mr. Booker in the last 15 minutes of the 90-minute debate, they did not seem to rattle his confidence.
Repeatedly, the mayor used the questions he was asked -- whether about foreign policy, economics or health care -- to promote his accomplishments in Newark, hinting occasionally of the outsize national profile he has enjoyed. To a question about how to balance threats of terrorism with concerns about intrusiveness in National Security Agency surveillance, Mr. Booker said that he had dealt with the issue as mayor when there was a threat to a building in the city, adding that he had ''sat in the situation room of the White House'' with other mayors to talk about terrorism.
While Mr. Booker, a gifted orator who appears frequently on national television, spoke directly to the camera and gestured as he answered questions, Representatives Rush D. Holt and Frank Pallone Jr. and the Assembly speaker, Sheila Y. Oliver, replied more to the moderator, with Mr. Pallone frequently looking down at his notes.
The candidates are running to fill the seat vacated by the death in June of Frank R. Lautenberg, who represented New Jersey in the Senate for five terms. Mr. Lautenberg, the chamber's last remaining veteran of World War II, was often described as the last liberal lion. He spent his political career crusading for greater regulation on tobacco, chemicals and toxic material in consumer products.
Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican, set the primary for next Tuesday and the special election in October. That short time frame has made it hard for all the candidates to get voters' attention, and worked to the overwhelming benefit of Mr. Booker.
Democrats outnumber Republicans by about 700,000 among registered voters in the state, and New Jersey has not elected a Republican to the seat in four decades, meaning that whoever wins the Democratic primary will almost certainly win the election to fill out the remaining year and a half of Mr. Lautenberg's term.
Mr. Booker's opponents have tried to argue that he is not a true Democrat, given his defense of Wall Street, his support for school vouchers and his coziness with Mr. Christie, one of the nation's most prominent and polarizing Republicans.
Mr. Holt, an astrophysicist, began his remarks by talking about the ways he is not Mr. Booker, selling himself instead as a ''teacher, scientist, and a dedicated progressive through and through.'' He promoted his work securing money for suicide prevention among soldiers and medical and environmental research, and his recent fight to repeal the Patriot Act amid concerns about abuses of national surveillance programs.
He noted that he had served on the House Intelligence Committee, and represented the United States in negotiations with the former Soviet Union on violations to missile treaties.
Mr. Pallone, who has campaigned on his so-called Jersey credentials, also reminded voters that he was the candidate endorsed by Mr. Lautenberg's family, and that he had worked with Mr. Lautenberg on issues like cleaning up Superfund sites. He criticized the mayor for his closeness with Mr. Christie, particularly on vouchers, of which he said voters had to be ''extremely wary.''
But for the most part, Mr. Pallone emphasized his differences with Tea Party Republicans, particularly on budget issues.
Ms. Oliver said her idol was former Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm, quoting her saying, ''Talent comes in a skirt.'' She also discussed her wide experience as a legislative leader, noting pointedly that she had visited all parts of the state ''and not just during a part of the campaign.''
She described her experience on the local as well as the state level, venturing that she had been working on Newark issues when the mayor was in high school. She alluded, dismissively, to Mr. Booker's relationships in Silicon Valley and on Wall Street, saying that what the state needed in the Senate was someone who could advocate for the state. ''That's what people are interested in,'' she said, ''New Jersey.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left: Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver
Representatives Frank Pallone Jr. and Rush D. Holt
 and Newark Mayor Cory Booker. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH SINNOTT/NJTV, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); CHEMICALS REGULATION & POLICY (67%); TERRORISM (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); WORLD WAR II (61%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: FRANK PALLONE JR (89%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (79%); BARNEY FRANK (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



176 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Online Lenders Told to Abide By Interest Cap In New York

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Government authorities are homing in on a lucrative loophole that allows online lenders to offer short-term loans at interest rates that often exceed 500 percent annually, the latest front in a crackdown on the payday lending industry.
New York state's financial regulator joined the effort on Monday as he sent letters to 35 of the online lenders, instructing them to ''cease and desist'' from offering loans that violate local usury laws, according to documents reviewed by The New York Times. The regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky, ordered the lenders to halt the ''illegal'' loans within two weeks.
Mr. Lawsky's investigation is playing out as state and federal officials escalate a broader effort to rein in payday lenders and their practice of offering quick money, backed by borrowers' paychecks, to people desperate for cash.
It is an evolving battle. As New York and 14 other states have imposed caps on interest rates in recent years -- New York outlaws any loans at rates above 25 percent -- the lenders have migrated from storefronts to Web sites. From their online perch, where they reach consumers across the country, the lenders can skirt individual state laws. 
''Illegal payday lenders swoop in and prey on struggling families when they're at their most vulnerable -- hitting them with sky-high interest rates and hidden fees,'' Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said.
If the lenders are seen as violating the law, officials briefed on the matter said, the state has authority to either sue the companies or refer their actions to prosecutors.
New York is also widening its scrutiny to include the banks that enable the lenders to operate. The banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, are a critical link between consumers and payday lenders, state officials say. They allow the lenders to automatically withdraw monthly loan payments from borrowers' checking accounts through an electronic transfer system known as A.C.H., or Automated Clearing House.
On Monday, Mr. Lawsky enlisted 117 banks to block online lenders from tapping into checking accounts of New York residents. In a letter to the banks, he questioned why the A.C.H. network had allowed online payday lenders the ''foot in the door'' they needed to ensnare consumers.
''Banks have proven to be -- even if unintentionally -- an essential cog in the vicious machinery that these purveyors of predatory loans use to do an end-run around New York law,'' he said in the letter. Mr. Lawsky urged the banks to ''work with us to create a new set of model safeguards and procedures'' that will detect illegal loans.
While federal and state regulators have sued online lenders before, New York's scrutiny of the banks represents a new avenue.
Some banks, however, have started to tweak their practices. JPMorgan, for example, is now reporting lenders that try to make unauthorized withdrawals to the group that oversees the A.C.H. system.
Mr. Lawsky has also pressured that group, Nacha, to take action. Nacha, formerly known as the National Automated Clearing House Association, is a nonprofit group that has previously said that banks have ''no basis or information to make an independent judgment'' about whether a withdrawal from a checking account is a ''bona fide, legal transaction.''
A Nacha representative declined to comment.
Other federal and state authorities, including the Manhattan district attorney's office, are investigating the banks for permitting illicit withdrawals from customer accounts, officials briefed on the matter said. State authorities in Maryland, according to the officials, have also referred potential instances of wrongdoing by the banks to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
In his separate cease-and-desist letters, Mr. Lawsky took aim at lenders like Western Sky Financial and Advance Me Today, which currently advertises a loan carrying interest and fees amounting to 782 percent annually. Another company, Peak 3 Loans, once charged a 1,095 percent rate on loans, the officials said.
Advance Me Today and Peak 3 did not return requests for comment. A spokesman for Western Sky declined to comment on the investigation, but said that the company ''complies with all applicable laws in its business practices.''
The payday loan industry has long noted that it provides credit to consumers who may otherwise lack access to the financial system. The high interest rates, the industry argues, reflect the riskiness of the client and the short-term duration of the loan.
''Like many consumers nationwide, New York residents are looking for more affordable credit options than those currently offered in their state and are increasingly looking to the convenience of Internet for them,'' Peter Barden, spokesman for the Online Lenders Alliance, said in a statement. ''Rather than restricting consumer choice, state officials should be focused on finding a federal solution to ensure consumers have access to the credit options they need and are demanding.''
In addition to New York, other state regulators have also moved against online lenders for violating state usury laws.
Arkansas's attorney general sued the operator of a number of online lenders, claiming that the firms were breaking state law that caps annual interest rates at 17 percent. Authorities in Maryland have also announced a series of cases, including as recently as last week, when it took action against MyCashNow.com, one of the 35 lenders that Mr. Lawsky singled out on Monday. MyCashNow could not be reached for comment.
In at least nine states, from Colorado to Missouri, regulators have penalized lenders with connections to Native American tribes. The lenders use these ties to claim that they are part of a ''sovereign nation'' immune from federal and state law.
The Federal Trade Commission in April 2012 sued AMG Services, a company with tribal affiliations that was started by a racecar driver, accusing the company of tacking on inflated and undisclosed fees. In its defense, court records show, the company claimed that it was not under the regulator's jurisdiction, citing its affiliation with the tribes. Last month, the agency scored a victory in the lawsuit, which is still pending, when a district court judge ruled that the tribal affiliation did not shield the lender from the regulator's case.
Western Sky, which says on its Web site that it operates ''within the exterior boundaries of the Cheyenne River Sioux Reservation,'' is among the other targets.
In April, it tangled with Oregon's department of Consumer and Business Services, which fined the lender over accusations that it trumpeted loans that came with interest rates of up to 342 percent ''through an aggressive TV and radio advertising campaign.'' That action came on the heels of another lawsuit against the lender in 2011 from the Colorado attorney general, which claimed that Western Sky flouted state law through roughly 200 loans that exceeded the state's interest rate cap.
A spokesman for the company said, ''Western Sky Financial is the largest private employer on the impoverished Cheyenne River Indian Reservation.''
Western Sky also landed on Mr. Lawsky's radar after New York consumers complained about the company.
Although Western Sky says its loans ''are not available to consumers'' in New York and other states with similar rate caps, it nonetheless lent $2,600 to Anne Diaz, a 44-year-old single mother who lives in Syracuse. Despite New York's 25 percent interest cap, she said Western Sky charged her a 135 percent annual interest rate in January.
''I feel really desperate and pretty ashamed that I was duped into this,'' Ms. Diaz said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Benjamin Lawsky is superintendent of financial services for New York State. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE GROLL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); BANKING LAW (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); RETAILERS (66%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



177 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: After Congress's Cuts, Envoys Say, U.S. Trade Suffers for Want of Jet Fare

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For those seeking to dramatize the high cost of across-the-board budget cuts in Washington, the temptation, understandably, is to paint in bold strokes: an aircraft carrier pulled out of the Persian Gulf or air traffic control towers gone dark.
Cutting the overseas travel budget of a few dozen trade negotiators hardly seems a comparable threat to America's national security. Yet it could have as large a ripple effect on the nation's global competitiveness as the budget cuts squeezing the Pentagon under the austerity program known as sequestration. 
The Office of the United States Trade Representative has been waging a lonely battle for its budget, which shrank 7 percent to $47 million this year because of sequestration spending caps. Officials in the office, pointing to the 2014 budget proposal in the Republican-controlled House, fear that they could end up with even less money next year.
This matters, officials say, because trade negotiators fly hundreds of thousands of miles just doing their jobs. Since the trade representative's office spends the bulk of its budget -- $46 million -- on fixed costs like salaries, benefits and office supplies, a cut of $5 million or $8 million could effectively ground much of its 250-person work force.
''We are in a situation where we've having to choose: Can we send people to a negotiation? Can we bring this enforcement case or another?'' the newly appointed trade representative, Michael Froman, said in a recent panel discussion with the president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Thomas J. Donohue.
When Mr. Froman described his operation as nimble, lean and agile, Mr. Donohue helpfully added ''poor.''
The office's financial woes have become a minor scandal in trade circles. Susan C. Schwab, a former trade representative in the George W. Bush administration, noted that even in the best of times, life at the office is not glamorous. Negotiators typically squeeze into economy-class seats for 15-hour flights to Asia, after which they plunge into round-the-clock talks on complex issues.
''All of this is under severe threat by virtue of $5 million, $8 million, $10 million,'' Ms. Schwab said. ''That's a real travesty.''
At the beginning of the Obama administration, clipping the wings of the trade representative would not have mattered that much. President Obama's trade policy initially consisted of rewriting parts of free-trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea that the Bush administration had negotiated, and then shepherding the agreements through Congress.
In the last two years, though, the administration has embarked on a genuinely ambitious agenda. The United States is deep in negotiations with 12 Pacific Rim countries on a free-trade agreement known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership. And it has begun what are likely to be multiyear talks on a free-trade pact with the European Union.
Mr. Froman is also pursuing trade-promotion efforts in Africa and a wide-ranging enforcement agenda, which includes exploring trade cases against China and other countries, monitoring new bilateral free-trade agreements and compiling a report on 41 countries accused of violating the intellectual property rights of the United States.
With the pressure on travel budgets, Mr. Froman said, he had money to send an official to only one of the 41 countries cited in that annual report, Ukraine. His colleagues like to point out that countries that the United States accuses of violating its rights generally do not put their officials on flights to Washington to explain their behavior.
As anyone who has watched the ritual of the Doha Round of talks between World Trade Organization members can attest, international trade negotiations are grinding, labor-intensive ordeals, requiring teams of lawyers and other specialists who camp out in hotels in foreign capitals for months. Breakthroughs, when they come, are often reached away from the bargaining table.
When the White House was renegotiating a provision of the South Korean free-trade agreement pertaining to market access in South Korea for American cars, Mr. Froman, then the deputy national security adviser for international economic affairs, and South Korea's trade minister, Kim Jong-hoon, left the hotel for a stroll around a lake.
Their walk produced a critical advance in the negotiations -- a fortuitous moment that generally does not happen when negotiators are squinting at fuzzy images of one another on video conference calls.
Given the high priority of the Pacific and European trade negotiations, the Office of the United States Trade Representative is not about to leave either of them inadequately staffed. But to keep a full complement of negotiators on both projects, it has scaled back or canceled visits intended to encourage trade with Brazil, China, India, Russia and Turkey.
Mr. Froman has been making his sales pitch on Capitol Hill and in friendly precincts like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Some critics say he ought to save his strongest arguments for his bosses in the White House, who, given the modest amounts involved, could move money around to preserve the trade representative's travel budget. (Officials say that is harder than it seems because of Congressional restrictions on the financing; the president, they note, has proposed a $56 million budget for the agency.)
''This is not a question of sequester,'' Ms. Schwab said. ''This is a matter of the nation's priorities.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The new United States trade representative, Michael Froman, said his office faced tough choices after a 7 percent budget cut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (57%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); PANAMA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



178 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1746 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Narcissists Everywhere

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

 BODY:
From the triumph of Botox to the rise of social networking and soccer teams that give every kid a trophy, Jean M. Twenge is constantly on the lookout for signs of a narcissism crisis in America.
Sometimes it gets personal.
''I got a onesie as a gift that I gave away on principle,'' said Dr. Twenge, 41, a professor of psychology at San Diego State University and a mother of three girls under 7, in an interview at a diner on the West Side of Manhattan.
''It said, 'One of a Kind,' '' she said, poking at a fruit salad. ''That actually isn't so bad, because it's true of any baby. But it's just not something I want to emphasize.''
At least not at home. In public, Dr. Twenge has used her knack for cultural criticism and an innovative but controversial approach to cross-generational data analysis to propel the narcissism debate into the mainstream. By comparing decades of personality test results, Dr. Twenge has concluded, over and over again, that younger generations are increasingly entitled, self-obsessed and unprepared for the realities of adult life. 
And the blame, she says, falls squarely on America's culture of self-esteem, in which parents praise every child as ''special,'' and feelings of self-worth are considered a prerequisite to success, rather than a result of it.
''There's a common perception that self-esteem is key to success, but it turns out it isn't,'' she said. Nonetheless, ''young people are just completely convinced that in order to succeed they have to believe in themselves or go all the way to being narcissistic.''
The message has hit a nerve. Since the 2006 publication of her first book on the subject, ''Generation Me,'' which sold more than 100,000 copies, Dr. Twenge (pronounced TWANG-ee) has become something of a celebrity psychologist, appearing on the ''Today'' show, ''Good Morning America'' and MSNBC, among others, to comment on topics as varied as Facebook and the rise in plastic surgery.
In 2009 she published another popular book, ''The Narcissism Epidemic: Living in the Age of Entitlement,'' with a frequent collaborator, W. Keith Campbell, a psychologist at the University of Georgia. Today, colleges and corporations often hire her as a speaker or consultant to help them better understand how to recruit and work with millennials.
But as her media profile has risen, so has the volume of criticism from her colleagues.
''I think she is vastly misinterpreting or over-interpreting the data, and I think it's destructive,'' said Jeffrey Jensen Arnett, a research professor in psychology at Clark University. ''She is inviting ridicule for a group of people about which there are already negative stereotypes.''
Critics like Dr. Arnett see a number of problems with Dr. Twenge's work. They say the test on which much of her research is based, the Narcissistic Personality Inventory, is inherently flawed -- better designed to measure feelings of confidence and self-worth than actual narcissism. They also accuse her of focusing too much of her work on students at research universities, who they say are not representative of their generation.
And some critics are even more emphatic: they say the data, if collected and read correctly, simply show no generational difference in narcissism. ''We calculated self-esteem scores from 1976 all the way up to 2006,'' said Brent Donnellan, a psychologist at Michigan State University, referring to his and colleagues' 2010 study using data from an annual national survey of high school students called Monitoring the Future, ''and we didn't see much difference at all.''
Dr. Twenge, who defends her work fervently, says the only reason she chose to focus on narcissism in the first place was that she followed the data. ''The truth is I just started studying generations and tried to get my hands on as many scales and as much data as possible,'' she said, ''and that's the theme that emerged.''
A Change Over Time
A Minnesota native and a childhood tomboy, Dr. Twenge had once planned on a career in gender studies. As a senior at the University of Chicago in 1993, she asked some classmates to take the Bem Sex Role Inventory, a 1971 survey that uses gender stereotypes to classify personalities as masculine, feminine or otherwise. What she found was surprising.
''Fifty percent of the women were scoring as masculine,'' she said, far higher than the test manual considered normal. After repeating the study at the University of Michigan, where she attended graduate school, and getting similar results, she concluded that the first test wasn't an anomaly, and looked for a way to further study the phenomenon.
Dr. Twenge decided to dig up as many old studies using the Bem survey that she could find, average out their scores by year and chart them over time. ''I found that across all the studies from the '70s to the '90s, there was a very clear upward trend in women scoring higher on this measure of stereotypically masculine traits,'' she said.
Thus a method was born. By analyzing the results of a survey that had been administered regularly to college students for decades, Dr. Twenge had found a novel way of tracking personality changes across generations -- an elusive metric among social psychologists. She would eventually term her method ''cross-temporal meta-analysis.''
Intrigued by the approach, she began to focus on studying generational changes in personality. The more research she did, she says, the more the themes of increasing self-focus and individualism began to emerge.
In 2008, she and some colleagues performed such an analysis using the Narcissistic Personality Inventory, a questionnaire developed in the 1980s that requires subjects to choose between statements regarding their self-image. (''I don't particularly like to show off my body''/''I like to show off my body.'') The test is a tool commonly used by psychologists to identify both clinical and borderline narcissism.
Dr. Twenge's analysis found that narcissism scores among college students had risen significantly, with 30 percent more scoring above the mean from the 1970s. The study was seized upon by the news media, and became the basis of her second book.
''I had absolutely no idea how much press it was going to end up getting,'' she said. ''It just exploded.'' She updated the study in 2010, finding that narcissism scores continued to rise through 2009, though not as sharply. A study she published last month in Social Psychological and Personality Science also found that the number of students who consider themselves above average continued to increase during the recession, even as the focus on materialism has ebbed.
That most recent study did not rely on the narcissism inventory, and neither have several others she has conducted.
Much of the disagreement between Dr. Twenge and her critics comes down to interpretation. She believes that questions like ''I am assertive'' and ''I like to take responsibility for making decisions'' are indicators of narcissism; Dr. Arnett calls them ''well within the range of normal personality,'' and possibly even ''desirable traits.''
But critics have also taken issue with her data. In 2008, Dr. Donnellan and Kali Trzesniewski, a psychologist at the University of California, Davis, responded to her analysis of Narcissistic Personality Inventory scores with an analysis of their own. They, too, looked at scores from 1979 to 2007, but broke the survey's questions into subsets to tease out more nuanced results. They concluded that some indicators of narcissism had increased while others had decreased. Over all, they said, there was no significant change.
Dr. Twenge, who grows noticeably irritated at the mention of the paper, calls the analysis invalid because it takes its earliest scores from just two University of California campuses (Berkeley and Santa Cruz) and its most recent scores from a third (Davis). ''These are very different college campuses with different cultures and student populations,'' she said, adding, ''It would be like taking height samples of men from the 1800s and comparing it to recent samples of women and saying, 'Oh look, height doesn't change.' ''
Encountering Controversy
But she does not rely on personality tests alone. In 2010 she performed a study on work attitudes finding that ''millennials'' (people born roughly after 1982) expressed a weaker work ethic than Generation X, born between 1965 to 1981, and put a higher value on leisure time. In 2012, she published a study finding that book authors' use of first-person-singular pronouns (I, me) had increased while the plural forms (we, us) had decreased. (In June, Dr. Twenge wrote an article for The Atlantic that gave hope to women over 35 who are trying to conceive. Like her third book, ''The Impatient Woman's Guide to Getting Pregnant,'' it had nothing to do with narcissism and was instead based on her experiences conceiving in her 30s. )
It is with this sort of evidence that Dr. Arnett -- a passionate defender of the socially networked ''iGeneration,'' which he says is more thoughtful and civic-minded than its predecessors -- raises his loudest opposition. In the March issue of Emerging Adulthood, he used a combination of the Donnellan and Trzesniewski studies and a barrage of cultural statistics to suggest that the dire warnings of a rise in selfishness were baseless.
Crime rates have fallen, he notes, as have incidents of teenage pregnancy and car accidents. ''If narcissism is increasing and narcissism leads to selfish behavior,'' Dr. Arnett said in a telephone interview, ''then you would expect all these things to get worse. But instead they've gotten better.''
Dr. Twenge agrees that such statistics might seem to contradict her results. But ultimately she dismisses them. ''I know of no study linking narcissism and car accidents,'' she said, and ''nobody knows why crime goes down.''
Ask Dr. Twenge to defend her conclusions often enough, and you are bound to elicit a reminder. ''People think I'm saying all millennials are selfish,'' she said. ''Of course I'm not saying that. I'm saying here's on average what the data show. This is a problem that anybody who does research on group differences runs into.''
She will also remind you not to shoot the messenger. ''Some people just want to be positive about the future and about young people, and I understand that,'' she said. ''But that means sometimes they just want to cover their eyes and ears and don't want to listen to anything negative, and I think that's misguided.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean M. Twenge finds fault with the culture of self-esteem in the United States, in which parents praise every child as ''special.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SOCCER (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (60%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



179 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: There's Big Revenue In Those Little Fees

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO -- GOOGLE Maps puts the distance from my home in Tucson to the San Diego Convention Center at about 421 miles, a drive of a bit over six hours.
Even so, I almost decided to drive on Sunday, rather than fly, to attend the annual Global Business Travel Association convention, which began that day. But Southwest Airlines had a convenient nonstop, a little over an hour's flying time (though, of course, it's over four hours total from home to airport and airport to hotel). So flying made sense.
Why was flying rather than driving even a close call? Well, like a lot of business travelers I routinely hear from, I've become so annoyed with airlines and airports that taking the car is increasingly an option, even on trips up to 500 miles or so. 
The airlines are adding to that incentive, by the way, with an aggressive new emphasis on blocking out large numbers of seats in coach cabins that are available for the basic fare. That is, when you try to book a flight at the posted fare, you routinely find that only the least desirable seats -- like a middle seat in a row at the rear of the plane -- are actually available for that price. Most of the rest are available only if you pay extra.
On July 20, for example, I flew on United Airlines from Phoenix to Tampa, Fla. When I booked that ticket, almost a month in advance, only a few seats were available without extra charge -- all middle seats in the back of the plane.
United's booking site informed me that all of the other ''complimentary assignment'' seats -- that is, seats available without having to pay extra -- were taken. The better seats were available for fees that ranged from $37 to $91 on the different legs of the round-trip flight.
Did I pay extra to avoid being wedged into a middle seat back by the toilets? Yes, I did, and as such I am an example of just the kind of traveler the airlines are banking on to increase one segment of their growing ancillary-fee revenue, the pot of gold that is the industry's big cushion for continued profitability.
A very rough estimate of the size of that revenue can be made from data compiled by the Transportation Department, which show that airlines collected $6 billion in fees for checked bags and reservation change penalties in 2012, compared with $1.3 billion in 2007.
But the figures encompass just two big categories of ancillary revenue and don't take into account the new revenue airlines are gaining from things like the ''upsell,'' which is how they typically refer to initiatives like charging extra fees for all but the least desirable coach seats. Another favorite tactic is to sell priority boarding, that is, better places in line during the confounding boarding process, giving a passenger who pays up an early crack at the crowded storage space in the overhead bins.
The ancillary-revenue bonanza isn't limited to the United States. A report last month by IdeaWorks, an airline revenue consultant, noted that ''airlines all over the world have been watching this demonstration of ancillary revenue power'' by carriers in the United States, and many are devising similar initiatives, especially for flights within Europe.
For airlines, the model has obvious appeal. United Airlines, for example, reported that its ancillary revenue grew 13 percent in the second quarter over the same period in 2012. The sale of coach seats designated Economy Plus was especially strong, James E. Compton, the chief revenue officer, said in an earnings call July 25. ''The Economy Plus upsell continues to perform very well, growing 37 percent year over year in the second quarter,'' he said.
After years of protesting that airlines make it difficult to budget for added-on fees because many involve sales to the passenger after the initial fare booking, corporate travel managers are basically just trying to keep pace with the changes in the way airlines charge for travel.
''We are long past the discussion about whether fees should exist or not,'' said Michael W. McCormick, the executive director of the Global Business Travel Association. But travel managers continue to insist that suppliers provide better transparency on price. ''That's still an ongoing debate with all sectors of business travel -- not just airlines,'' he said.
I'm glad he makes that distinction, because hotels are also busy devising extra fees, especially convention-style hotels. For example, when I checked into the Hilton San Diego Bayfront hotel on Sunday, the desk clerk offered me a ''room with a better view'' for an extra $20 above the basic room.
I declined to pay up. Which explains why this is being written from the 19th floor of the Hilton Bayfront, in a room by the elevators, with a sweeping view of the industrial dock where Dole Food transfers fruit from ships onto trucks. I'm watching workers unload a big banana boat right now.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (64%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



180 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Higher Profit

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- HSBC, Britain's largest bank, said on Monday that earnings rose 10 percent in the first half of the year, thanks in part to lower charges for bad loans, especially in the United States. 
Profit rose to $14.07 billion in the first six months of the year from $12.74 billion in the period a year earlier, slightly missing analysts' forecasts. Loan impairments fell 35 percent to $3.1 billion during the first half of 2013.
Shares in HSBC fell 3.4 percent in early trading in London on Monday.
Douglas J. Flint, the bank's chairman, called the results ''solid,'' adding that they were a result of ''the continuing reshaping of the group and from enforcing appropriate cost discipline.''
Like many of its rivals, HSBC has been closing or selling some operations to reduce costs and improve profitability. Under its chief executive, Stuart T. Gulliver, the bank has exited 54 businesses worldwide and scaled back consumer lending in the United States, where its 2003 acquisition of the subprime lender Household International has weighed on group earnings.
HSBC said it had exceeded its cost-cutting target for the year after saving $800 million in the first half. As part of Mr. Gulliver's cost-cutting plan, which was announced in 2011, HSBC is shedding about 30,000 positions. The bank also sold its credit card unit in the United States to Capital One Financial and its stake in Ping An Insurance of China. Mr. Gulliver said HSBC would now slow the pace of its disposals.
Provisions for bad loans and other risks in North America fell to $696 million in the first half from $2.2 billion in the period a year earlier.
Richard Hunter, the head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown in London, said the earnings were ''safe and dependable.''
Despite the flawed Household International acquisition, HSBC has fared better than some of its European competitors during the financial crisis, which started in 2008, because a large part of its earnings come from faster-growing markets like those in Asia.
HSBC acknowledged on Monday that growth in China, Brazil and other developing markets had been slowing recently, but said it was confident those regions would continue to outpace Europe and the United States.
''Despite slower growth in the short term, the long-term economic trends remain intact,'' Mr. Gulliver said. ''The global economy will continue to rebalance toward the faster-growing markets and trade and capital flows will continue to expand.''
The bank recently became embroiled in a set of scandals that included the sale of an insurance product to clients who did not qualify for it and a record settlement for charges of money laundering.
HSBC agreed last year to a $1.92 billion settlement with American authorities over accusations that it transferred billions of dollars for Iran and allowed Mexican drug cartels to move money illegally through its American subsidiaries.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (64%); MONEY LAUNDERING (60%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (66%); PING AN INSURANCE (GROUP) CO OF CHINA LTD (54%); HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC (53%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); COF (NYSE) (66%); 2318 (HKSE) (54%); HL (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



181 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2034 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Bezos Buys a Landmark in Washington

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: The founder of Amazon.com is buying The Washington Post for $250 million in cash. | Sony plans to keep all of its entertainment arm, rejecting a proposal by an investor. | European banks appear to be deferring more banker pay than their American counterparts. | New York State&#8217;s financial regulator is cracking down on high-interest lending. 

 BODY:
Jeffrey P. Bezos, the founder of Amazon.com, has agreed to buy The Washington Post for $250 million in cash, in a deal that has shocked the newspaper industry. Donald E. Graham, chairman and chief executive of The Washington Post Company, said he and the publisher "decided to sell only after years of familiar newspaper-industry challenges made us wonder if there might be another owner who would be better for the Post." The sale is expected to be completed within 60 days.
The purchase price is a pittance for Mr. Bezos, a technology mogul with an estimated fortune of more than $25 billion. "But the deal was still an astonishing move for a magnate who has kept a low profile in politics and has said almost nothing about his interest in newspapers, except that he reads them," Nick Wingfield and David Streitfeld report in The New York Times. "I am happily living in 'the other Washington' where I have a day job that I love," Mr. Bezos wrote to the newspaper's employees. 
"If it wasn't clear that newspapers have become trophies for the wealthy with an interest in journalism or power - or a combination of both - it should be now," Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column. In addition to the sale of the Post, The Boston Globe was sold on Friday for $70 million and Newsweek was sold over the weekend for next to nothing. The deals "don't make financial sense," said Ken Doctor, an analyst at Outsell, a research and consulting firm for the publishing industry.
Based on the math, the $250 million valuation for The Washington Post seems hard to justify, Mr. Sorkin writes. But the newspaper was not just a business. "If journalism is the mission, given the pressures to cut costs and make profits, maybe (a publicly traded company) is not the best place for The Post," Katharine Weymouth, the publisher, said in an interview with the newspaper. A running joke on Twitter on Monday was expressed by Ben Popper, the editor at the Web site the Verge: "Jeff Bezos has reputation for building great companies with little to no profit, perfect guy to own a newspaper."
The bank behind the sale of the newspaper was Allen & Company, which spoke to a "half-dozen" possible buyers before settling on Mr. Bezos, according to the Post's own report on the deal. "Mr. Graham and Mr. Bezos were both at Allen & Company's annual conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, last month," Michael J. de la Merced writes in DealBook. "The high-powered gathering of media and technology moguls may have lent cover for the two to cement the deal."
SONY REJECTS LOEB PROPOSAL FOR BREAKUP | Sony said late on Monday that it planned to keep all of its entertainment arm, rejecting a proposal by the activist hedge fund manager Daniel S. Loeb. "The decision, announced in a publicly disclosed letter to Mr. Loeb, raises questions about whether he will stage a public fight with Sony," Mr. de la Merced writes in DealBook. The letter came after a meeting between Mr. Loeb and Sony's bankers on July 17 in Manhattan.
The chief executive of Sony, Kazuo Hirai, wrote in the letter that the company had considered Mr. Loeb's proposal of spinning off part of the entertainment unit in a public offering. But he said that after consulting with its financial advisers, Sony believed that owning all of the business would let it better mesh with the core electronics operations, without the legal complications of a partial spinoff.
BANKERS' PAY DEFERRALS ARE TOUGHER IN EUROPE | Four years after international regulators proposed an overhaul of Wall Street's lush pay packages that was supposed to apply equally to employees of American investment banks and their big European rivals, "Europeans might be forgiven for wondering what happened to the American effort," DealBook's Peter Eavis writes.
"A central theme of the overhaul was to make bankers wait for a significant portion of their pay, so they would have less of an incentive to take the sort of short-term risks that led in 2008 to crippling losses. Today, however, European firms appear to be holding back, or deferring, substantially more of their top risk-takers' pay than American banks. European banks like Barclays and Credit Suisse are deferring as much as 70 percent of the compensation granted to top employees, according to an analysis by The New York Times of the banks' annual reports. American firms, by contrast, generally appear to be deferring about half."
ON THE AGENDA | 
Dish Network and Michael Kors Holdings report earnings before the market opens. The Walt Disney Company and Zillow report earnings in the evening. A report on the international trade gap for June is out at 8:30 a.m. Sheila C. Bair, former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, is on CNBC at 8 a.m. Ashton Kutcher, who is performing the role of Steven P. Jobs in an upcoming movie, is on CNBC at 4:40 p.m.
NEW YORK CRACKS DOWN ON ONLINE LENDERS | "Government authorities are homing in on a lucrative loophole that allows online lenders to offer short-term loans at interest rates that often exceed 500 percent annually, the latest front in a crackdown on the payday lending industry," Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess report in DealBook. "New York State's financial regulator joined the effort on Monday as he sent letters to 35 of the online lenders, instructing them to 'cease and desist' from offering loans that violate local usury laws, according to documents reviewed by The New York Times. The regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky, ordered the lenders to halt the 'illegal' loans within two weeks."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Alliant Techsystems Said to Be in Talks to Buy Bushnell | Alliant Techsystems, the giant ammunition maker, "is in advanced talks to buy Bushnell Outdoor Products" in a deal that could be worth around $1 billion, Reuters reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
With New Acquisition, BMC Software Opens App Store | BMC Software, the enterprise software company that recently agreed to sell itself to private equity investors, announced on Tuesday a new app store called BMC AppZone, which the company said it acquired through its purchase of Partnerpedia. BMC SOFTWARE
Hellman & Friedman in Deal for Insurance Brokerage Firm | Hellman & Friedman funds are acquiring Hub International, a global insurance brokerage firm, in a deal that values the company at $4.4 billion. DealBook 
Airlines Secure European Approval for Merger | US Airways and the parent company of American Airlines agreed to give up a slot at Heathrow Airport in London and foster competition in the London-Philadelphia route, The Associated Press reports. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Disney Magic May Not Have Worked on Pixar | A Breakingviews analysis suggests the studio's value to the Magic Kingdom falls short of the $7.4 billion purchase price, Jeffrey Goldfarb of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Standard Chartered's First-Half Profit Fell 24% | The British bank Standard Chartered reported that profit fell 24 percent, to $2.1 billion, in the first half of the year, as the firm took a $1 billion charge related to its operations in South Korea. DealBook 
Credit Agricole's Profit Soars After Bank Leaves Greece | The French bank said its second-quarter profit rose more than 12 times, to $922 million, from the period a year earlier, after it sold Greek and Italian units that had weighed on its results. DealBook 
Amid Disappointing Growth, Goldman Sachs Rethinks Brazil | Goldman Sachs has changed its plans for an expansion in Brazil after the economy grew less than expected, Bloomberg News reports. The report continues: "About a quarter of Goldman Sachs's roughly 45-person Brazil investment-banking division have left, people familiar with the matter said, asking not to be identified because the bank hasn't announced the departures. Five managing directors, four from the eight-person executive committee, are no longer at the firm, the people said." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Wealth Management Firm Targets a New Generation | Ascent Private Capital Management, a new unit of U.S. Bancorp, increased its assets under advisement in 2012 by 96 percent, according to Bloomberg Markets magazine. The firm's president said it is trying to "appeal to the new billionaire." BLOOMBERG MARKETS
Staff Turnover at Deutsche Bank's Prime Finance Unit | The unit of Deutsche Bank that works with hedge funds has experienced accelerating turnover in recent months, Absolute Return reports. ABSOLUTE RETURN
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Piling on Debt, Paying Out Dividends | The Wall Street Journal reports: "Private equity firms are adding debt to companies they own to fund payouts to themselves at a record pace, as fears mount that the window for these deals will close if interest rates rise." WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS 
Hedge Fund Manager Rejects Comparisons | Paul Singer of Elliott Management wrote in a letter to investors, according to Absolute Return: "The last thing we want to hear when we hit a soft patch (and the least helpful when trying to dig our way out) is a question about our performance relative to someone else's." ABSOLUTE RETURN
Pershing Square Said to Stumble in July | Pershing Square Capital Management, the hedge fund run by William A. Ackman, was down 2.2 percent in July, but it remains up 3.8 percent year-to-date, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified investor familiar with the numbers. REUTERS
Hedge Fund Urges EADS to Sell Dassault Stake | EADS, the parent company of Airbus, confirmed on Monday that it had received a letter from the London-based TCI urging it to sell its 46 percent stake in Dassault Aviation. DealBook 
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Neiman Marcus Said to Hire Banks for I.P.O. | The development is "the latest sign that the high-end department store is leaning toward a listing over pursuing an outright sale," Reuters reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
Third Point Reinsurance Fund Arm Seeks Up to $370.6 Million in I.P.O. | The reinsurance arm of Third Point, the hedge fund run by Daniel S. Loeb, disclosed on Monday that it was seeking to raise up to $370.6 million from its forthcoming initial public offering. DealBook 
VENTURE CAPITAL 
A Study Bolsters Twitter's Advertising Strategy | Nielsen has found in a study that an increase in Twitter commentary about a television show can increase the show's viewership as it airs, AllThingsD reports. The study "will be seen as validation for a pitch Twitter has been making to TV networks and advertisers for a couple years." ALLTHINGSD
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Chicago Sees Pension Crisis Brewing | "A crushing problem lurks beneath the signs of economic recovery in Chicago: one of the most poorly funded pension systems among the nation's major cities," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
F.B.I. Finds Flaws in System Controlling Economic Data | The Wall Street Journal reports: "The Federal Bureau of Investigation has discovered vulnerabilities in the government's system for preventing market-moving economic reports from leaking to traders before public release." WALL STREET JOURNAL
The Gray Line of 'Confidential' Information | The insider trading case against an analyst who tipped off a portfolio manager at SAC Capital Advisors in 2009 is not typical because he also shared the information with others, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. White Collar Watch 
The Changing State of Smartphone Competition in China | A look at the competition from Chinese makers to Apple's iPhone, which is no longer the most sought-after phone in the country, and the state of the government's effort to stabilize economic growth, Bill Bishop writes in the China Insider column. DealBook 
Fed Official Says More Names Being Considered for Chairman | "Not all the names you've read about are all the names being considered," Richard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said after a speech, according to Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (92%); ALLEN & CO INC (84%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (92%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (91%); DONALD E GRAHAM (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



182 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2034 words

HEADLINE: Bezos Buys a Landmark in Washington

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: The founder of Amazon.com is buying The Washington Post for $250 million in cash. | Sony plans to keep all of its entertainment arm, rejecting a proposal by an investor. | European banks appear to be deferring more banker pay than their American counterparts. | New York State&#8217;s financial regulator is cracking down on high-interest lending. 

 BODY:
Jeffrey P. Bezos, the founder of Amazon.com, has agreed to buy The Washington Post for $250 million in cash, in a deal that has shocked the newspaper industry. Donald E. Graham, chairman and chief executive of The Washington Post Company, said he and the publisher "decided to sell only after years of familiar newspaper-industry challenges made us wonder if there might be another owner who would be better for the Post." The sale is expected to be completed within 60 days.
The purchase price is a pittance for Mr. Bezos, a technology mogul with an estimated fortune of more than $25 billion. "But the deal was still an astonishing move for a magnate who has kept a low profile in politics and has said almost nothing about his interest in newspapers, except that he reads them," Nick Wingfield and David Streitfeld report in The New York Times. "I am happily living in 'the other Washington' where I have a day job that I love," Mr. Bezos wrote to the newspaper's employees. 
"If it wasn't clear that newspapers have become trophies for the wealthy with an interest in journalism or power - or a combination of both - it should be now," Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column. In addition to the sale of the Post, The Boston Globe was sold on Friday for $70 million and Newsweek was sold over the weekend for next to nothing. The deals "don't make financial sense," said Ken Doctor, an analyst at Outsell, a research and consulting firm for the publishing industry.
Based on the math, the $250 million valuation for The Washington Post seems hard to justify, Mr. Sorkin writes. But the newspaper was not just a business. "If journalism is the mission, given the pressures to cut costs and make profits, maybe (a publicly traded company) is not the best place for The Post," Katharine Weymouth, the publisher, said in an interview with the newspaper. A running joke on Twitter on Monday was expressed by Ben Popper, the editor at the Web site the Verge: "Jeff Bezos has reputation for building great companies with little to no profit, perfect guy to own a newspaper."
The bank behind the sale of the newspaper was Allen & Company, which spoke to a "half-dozen" possible buyers before settling on Mr. Bezos, according to the Post's own report on the deal. "Mr. Graham and Mr. Bezos were both at Allen & Company's annual conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, last month," Michael J. de la Merced writes in DealBook. "The high-powered gathering of media and technology moguls may have lent cover for the two to cement the deal."
SONY REJECTS LOEB PROPOSAL FOR BREAKUP | Sony said late on Monday that it planned to keep all of its entertainment arm, rejecting a proposal by the activist hedge fund manager Daniel S. Loeb. "The decision, announced in a publicly disclosed letter to Mr. Loeb, raises questions about whether he will stage a public fight with Sony," Mr. de la Merced writes in DealBook. The letter came after a meeting between Mr. Loeb and Sony's bankers on July 17 in Manhattan.
The chief executive of Sony, Kazuo Hirai, wrote in the letter that the company had considered Mr. Loeb's proposal of spinning off part of the entertainment unit in a public offering. But he said that after consulting with its financial advisers, Sony believed that owning all of the business would let it better mesh with the core electronics operations, without the legal complications of a partial spinoff.
BANKERS' PAY DEFERRALS ARE TOUGHER IN EUROPE | Four years after international regulators proposed an overhaul of Wall Street's lush pay packages that was supposed to apply equally to employees of American investment banks and their big European rivals, "Europeans might be forgiven for wondering what happened to the American effort," DealBook's Peter Eavis writes.
"A central theme of the overhaul was to make bankers wait for a significant portion of their pay, so they would have less of an incentive to take the sort of short-term risks that led in 2008 to crippling losses. Today, however, European firms appear to be holding back, or deferring, substantially more of their top risk-takers' pay than American banks. European banks like Barclays and Credit Suisse are deferring as much as 70 percent of the compensation granted to top employees, according to an analysis by The New York Times of the banks' annual reports. American firms, by contrast, generally appear to be deferring about half."
ON THE AGENDA | 
Dish Network and Michael Kors Holdings report earnings before the market opens. The Walt Disney Company and Zillow report earnings in the evening. A report on the international trade gap for June is out at 8:30 a.m. Sheila C. Bair, former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, is on CNBC at 8 a.m. Ashton Kutcher, who is performing the role of Steven P. Jobs in an upcoming movie, is on CNBC at 4:40 p.m.
NEW YORK CRACKS DOWN ON ONLINE LENDERS | "Government authorities are homing in on a lucrative loophole that allows online lenders to offer short-term loans at interest rates that often exceed 500 percent annually, the latest front in a crackdown on the payday lending industry," Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess report in DealBook. "New York State's financial regulator joined the effort on Monday as he sent letters to 35 of the online lenders, instructing them to 'cease and desist' from offering loans that violate local usury laws, according to documents reviewed by The New York Times. The regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky, ordered the lenders to halt the 'illegal' loans within two weeks."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Alliant Techsystems Said to Be in Talks to Buy Bushnell | Alliant Techsystems, the giant ammunition maker, "is in advanced talks to buy Bushnell Outdoor Products" in a deal that could be worth around $1 billion, Reuters reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
With New Acquisition, BMC Software Opens App Store | BMC Software, the enterprise software company that recently agreed to sell itself to private equity investors, announced on Tuesday a new app store called BMC AppZone, which the company said it acquired through its purchase of Partnerpedia. BMC SOFTWARE
Hellman & Friedman in Deal for Insurance Brokerage Firm | Hellman & Friedman funds are acquiring Hub International, a global insurance brokerage firm, in a deal that values the company at $4.4 billion. DealBook 
Airlines Secure European Approval for Merger | US Airways and the parent company of American Airlines agreed to give up a slot at Heathrow Airport in London and foster competition in the London-Philadelphia route, The Associated Press reports. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Disney Magic May Not Have Worked on Pixar | A Breakingviews analysis suggests the studio's value to the Magic Kingdom falls short of the $7.4 billion purchase price, Jeffrey Goldfarb of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Standard Chartered's First-Half Profit Fell 24% | The British bank Standard Chartered reported that profit fell 24 percent, to $2.1 billion, in the first half of the year, as the firm took a $1 billion charge related to its operations in South Korea. DealBook 
Credit Agricole's Profit Soars After Bank Leaves Greece | The French bank said its second-quarter profit rose more than 12 times, to $922 million, from the period a year earlier, after it sold Greek and Italian units that had weighed on its results. DealBook 
Amid Disappointing Growth, Goldman Sachs Rethinks Brazil | Goldman Sachs has changed its plans for an expansion in Brazil after the economy grew less than expected, Bloomberg News reports. The report continues: "About a quarter of Goldman Sachs's roughly 45-person Brazil investment-banking division have left, people familiar with the matter said, asking not to be identified because the bank hasn't announced the departures. Five managing directors, four from the eight-person executive committee, are no longer at the firm, the people said." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Wealth Management Firm Targets a New Generation | Ascent Private Capital Management, a new unit of U.S. Bancorp, increased its assets under advisement in 2012 by 96 percent, according to Bloomberg Markets magazine. The firm's president said it is trying to "appeal to the new billionaire." BLOOMBERG MARKETS
Staff Turnover at Deutsche Bank's Prime Finance Unit | The unit of Deutsche Bank that works with hedge funds has experienced accelerating turnover in recent months, Absolute Return reports. ABSOLUTE RETURN
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Piling on Debt, Paying Out Dividends | The Wall Street Journal reports: "Private equity firms are adding debt to companies they own to fund payouts to themselves at a record pace, as fears mount that the window for these deals will close if interest rates rise." WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS 
Hedge Fund Manager Rejects Comparisons | Paul Singer of Elliott Management wrote in a letter to investors, according to Absolute Return: "The last thing we want to hear when we hit a soft patch (and the least helpful when trying to dig our way out) is a question about our performance relative to someone else's." ABSOLUTE RETURN
Pershing Square Said to Stumble in July | Pershing Square Capital Management, the hedge fund run by William A. Ackman, was down 2.2 percent in July, but it remains up 3.8 percent year-to-date, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified investor familiar with the numbers. REUTERS
Hedge Fund Urges EADS to Sell Dassault Stake | EADS, the parent company of Airbus, confirmed on Monday that it had received a letter from the London-based TCI urging it to sell its 46 percent stake in Dassault Aviation. DealBook 
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Neiman Marcus Said to Hire Banks for I.P.O. | The development is "the latest sign that the high-end department store is leaning toward a listing over pursuing an outright sale," Reuters reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
Third Point Reinsurance Fund Arm Seeks Up to $370.6 Million in I.P.O. | The reinsurance arm of Third Point, the hedge fund run by Daniel S. Loeb, disclosed on Monday that it was seeking to raise up to $370.6 million from its forthcoming initial public offering. DealBook 
VENTURE CAPITAL 
A Study Bolsters Twitter's Advertising Strategy | Nielsen has found in a study that an increase in Twitter commentary about a television show can increase the show's viewership as it airs, AllThingsD reports. The study "will be seen as validation for a pitch Twitter has been making to TV networks and advertisers for a couple years." ALLTHINGSD
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Chicago Sees Pension Crisis Brewing | "A crushing problem lurks beneath the signs of economic recovery in Chicago: one of the most poorly funded pension systems among the nation's major cities," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
F.B.I. Finds Flaws in System Controlling Economic Data | The Wall Street Journal reports: "The Federal Bureau of Investigation has discovered vulnerabilities in the government's system for preventing market-moving economic reports from leaking to traders before public release." WALL STREET JOURNAL
The Gray Line of 'Confidential' Information | The insider trading case against an analyst who tipped off a portfolio manager at SAC Capital Advisors in 2009 is not typical because he also shared the information with others, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. White Collar Watch 
The Changing State of Smartphone Competition in China | A look at the competition from Chinese makers to Apple's iPhone, which is no longer the most sought-after phone in the country, and the state of the government's effort to stabilize economic growth, Bill Bishop writes in the China Insider column. DealBook 
Fed Official Says More Names Being Considered for Chairman | "Not all the names you've read about are all the names being considered," Richard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said after a speech, according to Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (92%); ALLEN & CO INC (84%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (92%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (91%); DONALD E GRAHAM (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



183 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(After Deadline)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: TIMESTOPICS

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: Parallel Problems

BYLINE: PHILIP B. CORBETT


HIGHLIGHT: The Times&#8217;s stylebook entry on the either/or construction seems simple. But we stumble often. 

 BODY:
 [PLEASE NOTE: After Deadline will be on vacation for two weeks and will return on Tuesday, Aug. 27.] 
In The Times's stylebook entry, it seems simple:
In an either/or construction, the terms that follow the two words should be parallel in form and purpose: The chef bakes either pies or cakes daily (not either bakes pies or cakes). The same principle applies to neither/nor and both/and.
But as my colleague Ken Paul points out, we stumble often over these constructions. Here are a few recent problems, including three from one day:
 Ms. Popova, who died at 91 on July 8 in Moscow, was inspired both by patriotism and a desire for revenge. 
The problem frequently crops up in cases like this, with a prepositional phrase. In this instance, "both" is followed by a full prepositional phrase (preposition plus noun): "by patriotism." But after "and," we have just the noun, with no preposition. So the two elements are not parallel. Restore the balance one of two ways: put the preposition before "both" ("by both patriotism and a desire for revenge") or repeat the preposition ("both by patriotism and by a desire for revenge").
 Even before he landed at Newark Liberty International Airport last year, veteran human rights advocates predicted a tug of war over Mr. Chen and his superhero lan, both among elected officials and the tangle of Chinese exile groups that often vie for attention and scarce financing. 
The same problem, and the same possible solutions. Put the preposition "among" before "both" ("among both elected officials and the tangle of Chinese exile groups") or use it with both parts of the construction ("both among elected officials and among the tangle").
 For the Obama administration, the problem is not simply its relationship with the Egyptian military but also with Israel, whose security interests are weighing particularly heavily on administration officials as they try to nurture a new round of peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. 
This is a variation on the more common "not only/but also" construction. Like "both/and" and "either/or," it should introduce two parallel elements. We needed to repeat "its relationship" before "with Israel," or move the conjunction: "its relationship not simply with the Egyptian military but also with Israel."
 When Mr. Tsarnaev did not show up at either Mr. Mess's funeral or memorial service, the friend became uneasy. 
Here, the two elements in the either/or construction are not parallel because one includes the possessive and one doesn't. Make it "at either Mr. Mess's funeral or his memorial service."
 William Weinreb, an assistant United States attorney, told Judge Bowler that he expected the trial to last three to four months and for 80 to 100 witnesses to be called. 
This is a more subtle parallelism issue. The use of "for" after "expected" in the second element is unnecessary and seems somewhat colloquial; in any case, it throws the construction out of balance to say "expected the trial to last ..." but then say "[expected] FOR 80 to 100 witnesses to be called."
 
 In a Word 
This week's grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help from colleagues and readers.
 The infection happens when meat containing the germ is eaten, grows in the gut, and then is introduced into the urethra. 
The germ, not the meat, is what grows in the gut etc.
 But this much is known: If Patrick were being born in August 2013, his odds of surviving would be better than 95 percent. 
This seems unnecessarily awkward; just "were born" would do.
 At night, Mr. Van Cura said, "it is difficult to see barges that are low in the water in the dark." 
Given what he said, "at night" is redundant. 
 Said Kenneth R. Feinberg, the head of the John F. Kennedy library: "As the sole surviving member of President Kennedy's family, she is the guardian of the flame. It is an awesome responsibility, and she does it extremely well." 
We should avoid this backward-speaking journalistic mannerism.
 The space has been reborn with a new name (a homage to the Lyonnaise chef Paul Bocuse) and an airy, bistro-style interior by Adam Tihany, who designed such celebrated Manhattan restaurants as Daniel and Per Se. 
Lyonnais, not Lyonnaise, is the masculine.
 But with a steady stream of drop-ins including Ronald O. Perelman, Ronald S. Lauder, Russell Simmons and Steven Spielberg; a speaker series that features a variety of notables as varied as Hillary Rodham Clinton and Glenn Beck; cantorial music on a par with Carnegie Hall; and other summer fare like this weekend's kosher gospel concert, the pews are generally packed. 
A varied variety is redundant.
 It is hardly unusual for a politician to have an outsized ego, but Mr. Christie lacks the masking subtlety possessed by many in his business. 
The stylebook prefers "outsize."
 Every player knows that betting on their team equates to a lifetime suspension. 
"Every player" is singular; make it "betting on his team." 
 Though the election on Wednesday will be decided by 150 rabbis, mayors and people handpicked by politicians, the campaign has captivated the public like never before, thanks to Rabbi Stav's agenda, his high-profile media blitz and professional consultants. 
Make it "captivated ... as never before."
 But the announcement on Sunday of the merger of two industry giants, Omnicom and Publicis, to create the largest ad company in the world, signals that advertising is now firmly in the business of Big Data: collecting and selling the personal information of millions of consumers. 
Grammatically this comma is unnecessary, but the real problem may be that the sentence is too complicated and needed to be streamlined.
 But the marshaled might of law enforcement - which people briefed on the matter said were 17 officials, including representatives from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the F.B.I., and postal inspectors as well as federal prosecutors - signaled that the government was no longer interested in just monetary settlements. 
"Which," referring to the noun "might," is singular, so the verb should be "was," not "were." Or say "included" or "consisted of." Or, better still, simplify the sentence.
 The move will give Mr. Smith significant scale and a connection with Bloomberg's lucrative terminal business, which produces revenue that allows the company to invest aggressively in media properties. 
This use of "scale" as a synonym for "wide scope" or "large size" has a faddish tone.
 But the choice also is roiling Washington because it is reviving longstanding and sensitive questions about the insularity of the Obama White House and the dearth of women in its top economic policy positions. 
The adverb is smoothest between the verb parts: "is also roiling."
 Mr. Paul's assumption seems to be that with fatigue from two wars over the last decade and skepticism toward a growing security state, Republican voters will be open to a foreign policy approach that is profoundly different than the interventionist policies of Mr. Bush. 
Make it different from, not different than.
 Producers who had seen a 2012 engagement of "First Date" at the 5th Avenue Theater in Seattle, decided in February to open the show on Broadway in August, hiring as the leads Krysta Rodriguez, from "The Addams Family" and "Smash," and, in his Broadway debut, Zachary Levi, from television's "Chuck" and Disney's "Tangled." 
Seven commas amounted to a cry for help from this overstuffed sentence. And in any case, the first one was unnecessary.
 The injury occurred during the first act of the play, which stars Mr. Lane as a 1930s-era burlesque performer, as the actor stepped off of the production's turntable, which revolves to allow the "Nance" sets to change from the burlesque house to the apartment of Mr. Lane's character. 
Avoid double prepositions; make it "off the production's turntable."
 One way to educate yourself is to Google the name of your airline and "Contract of Carriage." 
Generally avoid this verb use. There are other search engines, and it's easy enough to refer to online searching without naming a specific one.
 Want a Yogurt With That Vente Latte? Starbucks and Danone to Join Forces 
"Venti" is the word Starbucks uses. We had it right in print but some online headlines got it wrong. 
Foreign, 7/24:
 Royal Couple Make First Appearance With Infant Son 
 Jocularly, William blamed the long wait on the baby having arrived past his due date, which palace officials had said months ago was in mid-July. 
An awkward sentence. The stylebook cautions against the expression "blame on." And "the baby having arrived" is a fused participle; careful usage calls for "the baby's having arrived," or some other phrasing altogether.
Foreign, 7/23:
 Duchess of Cambridge Gives Birth to a Boy 
 The baby, a boy who weighed in at 8 pounds, 6 ounces, will not be king for some time: he has to wait in the long line behind his great-grandmother Queen Elizabeth; his grandfather Prince Charles; and his father, Prince William. 
No commas between the two terms, according to the stylebook.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (65%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (54%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



184 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Today in Small Business: Budget Bedlam Looming

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: An 11-year-old who has a bow-tie business. Why unions may hate the new health care law. Why your business needs an app. 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.
Budget
 Stan Collender is expecting budget bedlam this fall.
 Rep. Paul Ryan says a federal government shutdown is a bad idea.
 Congress breaks for recess with plenty of business left to finish.
Economic Data 
 Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in July for the 43rd consecutive month.
 Business activity across the world hit a 16-month high in July, helped by improvements in the United States and Britain.
 The Conference Board's Employment Trends Index, which forecasts employment for the coming six months, rose moderately in July. 
Start Up
 These 17 people who left finance careers for start-ups will make a lot more money.
 The Grommet considers creating a wholesale marketplace to play matchmaker for inventors and retailers.
Entrepreneurs
 In this Entrepreneurs Club Radio interview, a couple who knew nothing about wine and the wine business tell about their new venture, which is making and selling wine.
 This 11-year old entrepreneur has a bow-tie business.
Online
 A webinar today will explain how to create a Web site that really works.
 A brewpub uses Facebook to shame a customer who fled without paying.
 Taxes 
 Peter J. Reilly shares some practical advice in case you're thinking of going into the ranching business: "You can figure out your burn rate and know what the payoff would be if your ship comes in, perhaps in the form of one of your 10 horses turning into a first-class stud. Write that stuff down and keep it updated, documenting what you do when things don't turn out as you planned. It is conceivable that the exercise might actually help you be profitable, but regardless, it is crucial to winning an audit."
 The Recession 
 An American Express Open study finds that the Great Recession left Generation Y more risk averse, while the appetite for risk of Boomer entrepreneurs remained unchanged.
People
 Carol Kinsey Goman suggests six ways to keep liars from ruining your workplace, including: "People need time off to go to a kid's recital or basketball game. If you say they can't get out of work unless they break a leg, you're turning them into liars"
Management
 Caroline McMillan reports on four lessons small-business people learned from reality TV.
Around The Country
 Computer problems have delayed shipping at major ports in New York and New Jersey.
 The University of Georgia's Small Business Development Center will host a seminar on small-business certification next week.
 Jeff Bezos isbuying the Washington Post.
Around the World
 A New Zealand entrepreneur shakes up liquor brands.
 This infographic explains Internet use in the Middle East.
 Square announces a contest celebrating small businesses across Canada.
Health care
 Ezra Klein says a lot of unions are going to wind up "hating Obamacare": "In 2018, the Affordable Care Act will begin levying a tax on unusually expensive health-care plans. It's one of the most powerful cost control provisions in the bill. It's so powerful, in fact, that there's real evidence that it's already working, despite the fact that it won't go into effect for four years. But because it's working, it's going to make a lot of people who get good employer-based benefits really unhappy - including some of the law's supporters, like labor unions."
Marketing
 Facebook hires its first chief marketing officer.
Technology
 Tablet shipments cooled in the second quarter.
 Office Mobile for Office 265 is one of the new Android apps Phil Hornshaw thinks is worth downloading.
 Marla Tabaka explains why your business needs an app: "Apps offer small businesses a means to increase revenues and visibility, as well as enhance the customer experience. Whether you own a restaurant, offer a service, write a blog, run events, or manage a DIY platform, you can grow your business just by adding an app to your model."
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Gordon Ramsay Calling!
        
This Week in Small Business: The Silly Money Ratio
        
Help! I'm Not a Numbers Person!
        
Reviewing the Deal One Business Made on 'Shark Tank'
        
This Week in Small Business: Pay Cash

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (88%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (75%); TELECONFERENCING (75%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); BASKETBALL (70%); RETAILERS (68%); GENERATION Y (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (61%); HEALTH CARE LAW (61%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (60%); REALITY TELEVISION (50%) Entrepreneurship; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Small Business; Dashboard

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%); AXP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (72%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



185 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Pension Reform Could Disrupt Investment Funds

BYLINE: VICTOR FLEISCHER


HIGHLIGHT: Shifting more responsibility for public pensions to the private sector would cause some unintended consequences by cutting off an important source of financing for venture capital and private equity. 

 BODY:
Detroit's financial woes, exacerbated by underfunded pension liabilities, have brought renewed scrutiny to public pension plans. Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, and others have suggested overhauling these plans to shift more responsibility to the private sector. Private insurance companies would assume responsibility for these defined benefit plans, offering annuities to beneficiaries in exchange for employer-paid premiums. 
Proponents argue that privatization could reduce the risk of municipal bankruptcy and federal bailouts. One downside is the possible increase in fees associated with external management of retirement savings; it creates another way for Wall Street to extract wealth from Main Street.
Merits aside, overhauling the public pension system would cause some interesting and presumably unintended consequences. 
First, phasing out public pension funds could cut off an important source of financing for venture capital and private equity. Pension funds like the California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers, and the Teachers Retirement System of Texas are among the largest and most powerful institutional investors in venture capital and private equity. 
Eliminating a chief source of capital could leave a gap in the fund-raising landscape. Venture capital and private equity funds seek investors with longer time horizons who are willing to accept illiquidity for a premium return. Pension funds now contribute as much as a half of all capital to venture capital and private equity funds, although that estimate includes private pension plans. 
Private insurance companies also have long investment horizons and would be as well suited, in theory, to serve as limited partners. But insurance companies have not historically participated as actively in venture capital and private equity, and it might take some time for insurance executives to develop the institutional knowledge and capacity to do so well. Only the top quartile of venture capital and private equity funds historically outperform equity markets, and many insurance companies would not have access to top funds. 
A second unintended consequence has to do with the tax status of public pension funds: they are tax-exempt. The legal infrastructure of funds would have to continue to accommodate tax-exempt investors, which include other sources of capital like foundations and university endowments. 
But a shift toward taxable investors could change some negotiating dynamics around structuring decisions. Currently, most fund investors, because they are tax-exempt, are mostly indifferent to the tax consequences of the fund structure. At the fund level, fees are mostly paid in the form of carried interest, which allows managers to pay tax at low capital gains rates. Taxable investors might prefer to instead pay incentive fees that are economically similar but may generate ordinary tax deductions for investors and ordinary income for the manager.
At the portfolio company level, fund managers might organize more portfolio companies as pass-through entities to allow for the flow through of tax losses to investors. While tax-exempt public pension funds do not care about the flow-through of losses, insurance companies might. 
While it is too early to predict the outcome of public pension legislation, it is not too soon for deal lawyers to start planning to accommodate more taxable investors into fund structures. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (95%); VENTURE CAPITAL (94%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (93%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PENSION REFORM (90%); TAX LAW (89%); INSURANCE (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ENDOWMENTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (68%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (67%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (67%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (57%) Legal/Regulatory; Private Equity; Standard Deduction; Top Headline 2; Venture Capital

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



186 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: UBS Agrees to Settle Federal Claims in Mortgage Case

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: UBS, the giant Swiss bank, has agreed to settle federal accusations that it misled investors about a complex mortgage security. 

 BODY:
UBS agreed on Tuesday to pay $50 million to settle federal accusations that it misled investors about a complex mortgage security, a transaction that loomed over the government's recent legal battle with a former Goldman Sachs trader blamed for his role in creating a similar security.
The Securities and Exchange Commission's case against UBS, the giant Swiss bank, made a cameo appearance in the trial of the former Goldman trader, Fabrice P. Tourre, whom a jury found liable on six counts of civil securities fraud last week. ACA Management, a company that helped structure the mortgage securities in 2007 for both Goldman and UBS, linked the two financial crisis-era cases. 
In Mr. Tourre's case, the former trader was blamed for not warning ACA that a hedge fund involved in picking assets for the deal was also betting that it would fail. Two former top ACA executives testified on the S.E.C.'s behalf, contending that Mr. Tourre kept them in the dark about the hedge fund's conflict of interest.
In the UBS case, ACA provided the bank with about $23 million in upfront cash payments related to the mortgage deal. UBS pocketed the $23 million rather than sweeping it into the mortgage security, known as a collateralized debt obligation, or C.D.O. UBS marketed the deal, according to the S.E.C., "using materials that omitted any reference to its retention of the upfront payments," making it an "undisclosed fee."
"UBS kept $23.6 million that under the terms of the deal should have gone to the C.D.O. for the benefit of its investors," George S. Canellos, the S.E.C.'s co-director of enforcement, said in a statement.
UBS did not admit or deny wrongdoing. In a statement, the bank said it was "pleased to put this investigation behind us, which involved a legacy business that was closed almost five years ago." The bank further noted that the S.E.C. did not cite it for intentional or reckless misconduct.
For UBS, which has sent plenty of big checks to the government over the last five years, the $50 million penalty appears as something of a rounding error.
Last month, the bank agreed to pay $885 million to a federal regulator that accused it of selling toxic mortgage securities to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled housing finance giants. That penalty came on top of a $1.5 billion fine that the bank paid last year to global regulatory authorities to resolve its role in an interest-rate manipulation scandal. The bank also agreed to a $780 million fine in 2009 with United States authorities to settle charges that it helped American clients avoid paying taxes.
The settlement with the S.E.C. was another black mark for the bank. The S.E.C.'s civil order, citing internal UBS e-mails and phone recordings, depicted the bank's zealous pursuit of profit as coming at the expense of investors.
The problem stemmed from 2007, the eve of the financial crisis, when the bank was starting the deal. Almost immediately, UBS employees working on the deal pursued upfront cash.
"Let's see how much money we can draw out of the deal," the head of the bank's United States C.D.O. group said at the time, according to the S.E.C. And in a recorded call, when an ACA employee asked if there was "$20 million lying around," a UBS employee responded: "We spent it already."
In May 2007, according to the S.E.C., UBS employees debated how to keep the $23 million upfront cash payments obtained through ACA. After consulting with a UBS lawyer, the employees decided to retain the cash without disclosing it to investors, a decision that the S.E.C. called "inconsistent with the industry standard."
The S.E.C. argued that the deception continued when UBS, along with ACA, prepared a list of assets in the deal. The list provided to investors "did not contain any reference" to the upfront payments. Instead, the marketing documents mentioned a $10.8 million fee that the bank collected. Despite ACA's role in the deal, no one at the company has been charged, a fact that Mr. Tourre's lawyers seized on at his three-week trial in Lower Manhattan.
The S.E.C. previously warned Laura Schwartz, one of the former ACA executives who testified against Mr. Tourre, that it might file civil charges against her. The agency, however, dropped the investigation weeks before Mr. Tourre's trial. Mr. Tourre's lawyers have argued that the S.E.C.'s decision might have colored her testimony against their client. The judge in the case, Katherine B. Forrest, was receptive to that concern, allowing Mr. Tourre's lawyers to introduce the S.E.C.'s decision as evidence.
"The timing I find just too close to preclude entirely," she said.

        
Former Trader Is Found Liable in Fraud Case
        
Deliberations Start in Goldman Trader's Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (91%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (87%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); JURY TRIALS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); VERDICTS (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); DEREGULATION (62%) ACA Management LLC; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Tourre, Fabrice P; UBS AG; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; UBS AG|UBS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2; Wall Street

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (62%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (62%)

ORGANIZATION: ACA Management LLC; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission; UBS AG

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; UBS AG; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (62%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (62%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (62%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (90%) Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



187 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Justice Dept. Sues Bank of America Over Mortgage Securities

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: The government accused the bank of defrauding investors by vastly understating the risks of the mortgages backing about $850 million worth of mortgage-backed securities. 

 BODY:
The Justice Department sued Bank of America on Tuesday, accusing the bank of defrauding investors by vastly understating the risks of the mortgages backing about $850 million in securities.
The lawsuit adds to the hefty legal burden of the bank, which has been badly battered by mortgage-related losses and litigation since the financial crisis. The great bulk of those troubles stem from the bank's 2008 acquisition of the subprime lender Countrywide Financial.
Yet the latest litigation centers on Bank of America's own homegrown mortgage operations. And the loans at issue were represented as prime jumbo mortgages - at the time, 2007, loans of more than $417,000 for a single-unit dwelling - rather than subprime mortgages, which were at the heart of the mortgage crisis. 
Those new elements were woven into a familiar narrative as the Justice Department's lawsuit portrayed the bank's mortgage operations as emblematic of Wall Street's reckless practices in the heady days before the financial crisis.
Under pressure to generate profits, the lawsuit said, Bank of America pushed employees to churn through mortgage evaluations. The instructions for slipshod standards emanated from the upper echelons of the bank, the lawsuit said.
One employee, according to the lawsuit, said that her job was to "basically validate the loans," rather than to comb through them to spot flaws. The goal, the employee said, was to get through mortgage applications swiftly. She was told by her superiors, prosecutors said, to "keep her opinions to herself."
In the end, the prime mortgages turned out to be far more dangerous than investors were led to believe, the lawsuit contends. Bank of America misrepresented the quality of the loans, and five investors lost about $100 million, the government said.
A spokesman for Bank of America contested the government's characterization of its conduct.
"These were prime mortgages sold to sophisticated investors who had ample access to the underlying data and we will demonstrate that," Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman, said in a statement.
Bank of America disclosed last week in a corporate filing that it was bracing for an action from the Justice Department. The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a parallel action on Tuesday.
The lawsuit is the latest salvo from President Obama's federal mortgage task force. Eric H. Holder Jr., the United States attorney general, said it was "the latest step forward in the Justice Department's ongoing efforts to hold accountable those who engage in fraudulent or irresponsible conduct."
Still more than five years after the housing market imploded, federal prosecutors are still working to pin blame for problems that helped drive the mortgage boom and then its demise. It is an effort that has generated some frustration among the American public, fed up with the lack of criminal prosecutions since the financial crisis, and a slew of civil lawsuits, some of them seemingly repetitive, aimed at banks.
For Bank of America, the lawsuit on Tuesday follows a case from federal prosecutors in New York. In that civil suit last year, federal prosecutors claimed that Bank of America, through its Countrywide Financial unit, defrauded the government by producing loans at such a fast clip that controls were ignored.
The Justice Department's lawsuit on Tuesday also highlights a lack of controls at the bank. An "unprecedented" number of the loans packaged and sold to investors came from mortgage brokers, it said. As a result, prosecutors said, the loans were shaky, at best.
At the time, Bank of America's chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, described loans that came through such wholesale channels as "toxic waste," according to the lawsuit.
Once the mortgages were originated, the government said, Bank of America deliberately kept investors blind to the risks associated with the ensuing securities. Bank of America, the government said, never told investors that some of the mortgages included were so-called stated income and stated asset loans, meaning that the bank never verified the income the borrowers claimed to have.
Prosecutors said that investors were also deprived of critical knowledge about the underlying mortgages, like the fact that 22 percent of the borrowers were self-employed. The investments at issue were sold in 2008 to five investors, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco and Wachovia Bank, which has since been acquired by Wells Fargo.
Without quality controls, the government said, trouble ensued. The number of borrowers that fell behind on their payments was "abnormally high," according to the lawsuit. The turbulence "cannot be explained solely by the downturn in the real estate market" alone. According to the government's assessment, at least 23 percent of the mortgages had defaulted or were delinquent as of June 2013.
The lawsuit cites 2007 e-mails from the bank's own securities traders expressing frustration about the quality of mortgages. One trader wrote, some were "like a fat kid in dodge ball, these need to stay on the sidelines."
While the accusations add to the pressure on Bank of America, which has been working to move past the crisis, previous government lawsuits against it that began with much fanfare have lost some of their momentum.
In the United States attorney's lawsuit against Bank of America that was filed in October, for example, prosecutors originally said that the problematic home loan program known as the "hustle" was kept alive by Bank of America through 2009.
But, last month, the government scaled back those accusations. The program lasted through May 2008, not through December 2009, the government said in a court filing.
Justice Department's lawsuit against Bank of America
An earlier version of this post misstated the Justice Department's fraud claim against Bank of America. The Justice Department accused the bank of defrauding investors by vastly overestimating the quality of mortgage-backed securities, not underestimating them.

        
U.S. May Move Against Bank Over Jumbo Loan Securities
        
After Years of Battling, Bank of America and MBIA Settle Mortgage Dispute

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (94%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (92%); LITIGATION (92%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); HOUSING MARKET (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Bank of America Corporation; Holder, Eric H Jr; Justice Department; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Justice Department

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (56%) Holder, Eric H Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



188 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Republicans, White Voters and Racial Polarization

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Would it be immoral and divisive for the G.O.P. to exploit liberalism&#8217;s white working class weakness? 

 BODY:
This National Journal piece, the latest to misread Sean Trende's columns on the "missing white voters" of 2012 as an argument that the G.O.P. should try to build a "whites-only" majority, reminds that I've been meaning to write about some of the various liberal responses to Trende's argument. Not the responses saying that he's factually or analytically wrong, but the responses that either imply or state that even if he were right that there are a lot of up-for-grabs white votes that the G.O.P. might pursue effectively, it would be immoral, tragic, and/or ruinously divisive if Republicans were to actually try to win this way.
I think the New Yorker's Ryan Lizza has made the most extensive version of this argument:
The seduction of this alternate path for the G.O.P. is obvious. The changes associated with diversifying the Republican Party's coalition are dramatic and, to some conservatives, frightening. Superficially at least, simply attracting more whites seems safe and more ideologically consistent with the Party's current agenda ... 
... If this is indeed the path that the G.O.P. pursues, it would intensify one of the less welcome political trends of the past few decades: the racial polarization of the electorate.
In a recent paper, the political scientist Alan Abramowitz documented this "growing racial divide" in our system. "The growing dependence of the Democratic Party on nonwhite voters has contributed to the flight of racially and economically conservative white voters to the G.O.P. thereby further increasing the size of the racial divide between the party coalitions," he noted.
... The outcome of the immigration debate will decide how much this trend accelerates. Under one rather ominous scenario, House Republicans will kill immigration reform, and Democrats, led by President Obama, will mount a withering attack on the G.O.P. in the Hispanic community, blaming the Party for the bill's demise ... Meanwhile, the Supreme Court's recent decision to strike down part of the Voting Rights Act has led Republicans in several Southern states to pursue laws that previously would have been challenged by the Justice Department as making it more difficult for some minorities to vote.
The net result of all this is ... a Republican strategy to defeat immigration reform, increase its support among whites, and make it harder for some nonwhites to vote ... [is] a recipe for a future in which America's two parties are largely defined by race.
But as Lizza's mention of the White House's political strategy on immigration implicitly acknowledges, this "recipe" is one that left-of-center coalition politics bears a lot of responsibility for cooking up. The Democrats haven't just been passive players in the recent racial polarization of the parties: Rather, they've embraced and furthered the trend, as a necessary part of making their new presidential-level "coalition of the ascendant" work. Where the Clinton-era Democrats still tried to win working class whites outright, the Obama-era Democrats mostly just used scorched-earth campaigning to try to minimize the G.O.P.'s margin and/or keep these voters on the sidelines. Where the pre-Obama party still made room for immigration skeptics and coal-country populists, the Obama-era Democrats have pushed in policy directions calculated to alienate many of the swing voters who cast ballots for Byron Dorgan in the past, or Joe Manchin or Mark Pryor in the present. Where the pre-Obama party spoke the language of "safe, legal and rare" on abortion and basically set gun control aside as a losing issue, the Obama Democrats have mostly dropped the "rare" part and, post-Newtown, taken up the gun-control cause anew. And so on.
You could argue that these are all just necessary pivots given the racial dynamics of the Obama era. But racial bias alone can't explain why the president went from losing non-college-educated white voters by only 18 points in 2008 to being 40 points underwater with that same demographic today. The issue matrix matters as well, and over the last five years, this administration and this Democratic Party have consistently tried to mobilize new coalition elements in ways that have very predictably tended to alienate downscale whites.
And that strategy has worked! Energizing "ascendant" constituencies while pushing working-class whites toward the Republicans has represented a form of "positive polarization" for the Democrats, since it's left them with a presidential-level majority that they did not enjoy before. But like any successful gambit, it's also created vulnerabilities. The Democrats may not longer need that many working class white votes to win, but they probably can't actually afford to lose them in a 70-30 split. And in the normal course of political events, it would be entirely reasonable for the opposition party to look at a president's collapsing ratings with a demographic his party has mostly written off, and focus on that group as a target of opportunity in the next few election cycles.
Now nothing to do with race in America is politically normal. But the problem with suggesting that the G.O.P. shouldn't aim for a white working class target because it would further racially polarize the country is twofold: First, it asks Republicans to basically play by rules that (victorious) Democratic strategists are writing, and (more importantly) it tells working class whites that they should pretty much get used to being ignored by both parties, because the country's racial harmony depends on it. I don't particularly want to live in a country where the two political coalitions are thoroughly divided along racial-ethnic lines. But I also don't want to live in a country where many of the voters most disillusioned with the political system, and most battered by the trends of the last five years and the last thirty alike, don't have either party responding to their point of view and asking for their vote.
I also tend to think, as I've written before, that the racial-polarization problem Lizza and other liberals are worried about is probably one that will take care of itself. If the G.O.P. misreads Trende's argument and falls for the idea that it can win working-class whites, especially in non-southern states, without moving toward the center (or a center, more aptly) on economic policy, then it will fail miserably and probably see its coalition shrink rather than grow. No matter which way white voters are trending, there is simply no way to build a national majority on the basis of opposition to immigration reform, support for voter ID laws and the G.O.P.'s 2012 economic platform, and if the Republican Party takes that path it will be deservedly defeated again and again - which, in turn, will eventually inspire a right-of-center rethink that shakes up the current trend toward racial polarization.
On the other hand, if Republicans interpret Trende's analysis correctly and set out to increase their margins with working class whites by developing a more inclusive and populist vision on economic policy, then they will probably ultimately win more Hispanic and even African-American votes as well ... because the G.O.P.'s current weakness with those groups is driven by economic issues as well as identity politics, and there is a reasonably-strong overlap between the kind of arguments that would woo downscale white voters in Minnesota and middle-class Hispanics outside Las Vegas. Properly understood, then, the argument that the G.O.P. should focus on the Democratic Party's white-working-class vulnerability is not an argument for a conscious strategy of racial polarization. Rather, it's an argument for a Republican Party that recognizes liberalism's growing weakness with a particular demographic, and responds with a reinvention that's pitched to those voters and to the places where their concerns overlap with those of electorate as a whole.
I don't particularly expect the G.O.P. to execute this kind of strategy effectively. But I'd rather see them try, the risk of racial polarization notwithstanding, then watch both parties unite in ignoring the particular mix of stresses and anxieties that beset the white working class.

        
Welfare Reform Then, Immigration Reform Now?
        
Rubio-Schumer and the Republican Future
        
Republicans and the Rich
        
The Media, Immigration and G.O.P. Donorism
        
What Is Reform Conservatism?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTION LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TRENDS (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (86%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (86%); IMMIGRATION LAW (86%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); ETHNICITY (65%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); GUN CONTROL (60%) Democratic Party; Dorgan, Byron L; Gun Control; Hispanic-Americans; Immigration and Emigration; Obama, Barack; Race and Ethnicity; Republican Party; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Voting Rights Act (1965)

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); BYRON DORGAN (69%) Dorgan, Byron L; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



189 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: 11 Trillion Reasons

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Food policy can make us healthy or it can make us sick. 

 BODY:
Here's a good line: "[U]nenlightened farm policy - with its massive subsidies for junk food ingredients - has played a pivotal role in shaping our food system over the past century. But that policy can readily be changed."
With the possible substitution of the word "might" for "can," this is pretty much an inarguable statement. It comes from "The $11 Trillion Reward: How Simple Dietary Changes Can Save Money and Lives, and How We Get There," a report produced by the Union of Concerned Scientists (U.C.S.) to be introduced at the farmers' market[1] at New York's Mount Sinai Hospital Wednesday.
That's a big number, $11 trillion, but even if it's off by 90 percent (it's difficult to put a value on lives), who's to scoff at a trillion bucks? In any case, this summary of current research, which contains the argument that even a tiny increase in our consumption of fruits and vegetables would have a powerful impact on health and its costs, agriculture and the economy, is compelling. 
About 750,000 United States deaths annually - a third of the total - result from cardiovascular disease, at a medical cost of about $94 billion. The report (and video based on it) maintains that if we upped our average intake of fruits and vegetables by a single serving daily - an apple a day, essentially - more than 30,000 of those lives would be saved (at an overall "value," according to the report, of $2.7 trillion). Each additional serving of fruit or vegetable would reduce mortality from cardiovascular disease by about 5 percent, to the point where if we all ate the recommended amounts of fruits and vegetables, we'd save more than 100,000 lives and something like $17 billion in health care costs.[2]
This is not new, but the report - written by the U.C.S. agricultural economist Jeffrey K. O'Hara - goes further, and points out that although Department of Agriculture (U.S.D.A.) dietary guidelines encourage all of us to eat sufficient fruits and vegetables to derive these benefits, that same department's agricultural policy encourages exactly the opposite - that is, damaging - behavior.

Thus we inevitably arrive at the infinitely negotiated Farm Bill, whose subsidies for commodity crops - soy, corn and wheat are our chief concerns - directly promote the production of foods high in hyperprocessed carbohydrates and fats (for simplicity's sake, junk foods) and the kind of eating that is killing us. These policies come with many obvious direct costs, but also indirect ones. For by subsidizing the production of commodity crops we discourage the farming of fruits and vegetables - the foods that promote health.
A main point of the report is that encouraging farmers to grow fruits and vegetables and sell them locally boosts public health. Therefore, U.C.S. wants to see programs that do just that, plus support research for noncommodity crops, subsidize the development of new outlets for locally grown food and further encourage SNAP (food stamp) users to buy it.
A couple of other interesting points arise here. There's been a bit of backlash about the new "L" word - local - by some economists, most pushers of industrial agriculture and other skeptics, who scoff at the notion that adequate amounts of food can be grown locally. Putting aside the fact that "increasing regional production" is a more accurate way to describe what progressives in the food movement are advocating (few would argue that all food should be local), it's worth noting that with little government support the number of farmers' markets has quadrupled in the last 20 years, and that farm-to-school programs have grown from six in 2001 to more than 10,000 now.
Even if direct subsidies for fruits and vegetables - "specialty crops," as the U.S.D.A. almost mockingly calls them - were not forthcoming, a decrease in those subsidies for their competition would make these numbers even more impressive.[3]
Ending direct subsidies to what amounts to the enemies of good health makes so much sense that the U.C.S. report has received support from unexpected quarters. Eli Lehrer, president of the R Street Institute, a conservative think tank, told me that "The central point of the report - that government agricultural subsidies contribute to worse health - is an excellent one, one that hasn't been made in this way."
Even Lehrer's critiques of the report are mild: "I can't say I hate any of the policy recommendations they make - they'd be better than what we're doing now - but if the subsidies are a problem, then replacing them with different types of subsidies isn't the solution."
My fear is that once you do away with subsidies for bad policies, the money is gone, and it will be difficult to get it back for the kind of programs U.C.S. advocates.
Still: I'll stand on common ground with anyone who wants to abandon subsidizing the growing of corn, Big Food's production of junk and, ultimately, the undermining of public health. What happens afterward can hardly be worse.
That's the kind of thinking that Joshua Sewell, a senior policy analyst at the fiscally conservative Taxpayers for Common Sense, expressed as well: "There's a notion that we have to have spending on agriculture, but where's the money going and what are we getting out of it? The first step is to shift the paradigm and stop the harmful system we have now. The second step is to figure out the proper role of government, how to spend our money in a cost-effective manner: land grant universities should be doing research in the public interest, not corporate philanthropy."
It's not "cost-effective" - or, to put it more simply, smart - to subsidize the producers of food that makes us ill. They don't need it - they're already profitable, in part thanks to decades of subsidies - and there is no logic in helping corporations who are in the business of poisoning us to be more profitable. If government money is to go to agriculture, it should go to those farmers who are eager to grow the foods that will sustain us. What that's worth is inestimable.
1. This is National Farmers Market Week, by the way. I've already celebrated.
2. Note that this way of looking at things skips right by the obesity argument - which is fraught with controversy - and simply looks at the well-established notion that when you replace junk food with real fruits and vegetables you improve health.
3. Imagine how much more food would be grown locally and purchased at farmers markets if more cities had permanent structures like the Reading Terminal Market in Philadelphia or Eastern Market in Detroit, central markets where farmers were guaranteed not only space and shelter but a weekly or even daily crowd.

        
Bad Enough
        
When Food Isn't the Answer to Hunger
        
Fixing Our Food Problem
        
A Simple Fix for Farming
        
G.M.O.'s: Let's Label 'Em

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); NUTRITION (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (65%) Agriculture and Farming; Food; Mark Bittman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



190 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Power of Pickups Edition

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Ford adds a third shift at its Kansas City plant to keep up with demand for F-Series pickups, and Consumer Reports tops its best sedans list with the 2014 Chevrolet Impala. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 Relatively high fuel prices and a still-sagging economy seem not to have put a dent in the American market's demand for light pickup trucks. Ford announced on Monday that it would add a third shift - creating 900 hourly jobs - at its Kansas City assembly plant, where F-Series trucks are manufactured. Ford said the move was part of a 2,000-job increase, which would help meet production requirements when the plant begins building the new Transit van next year. (Ford) 
 General Motors says it will cut the price of the Chevrolet Volt by $5,000. With the the $7,500 federal tax credit factored in, Automotive News says that will bring the plug-in hybrid car's price down to $27,495 (including an $810 destination fee). G.M. cited stiff competition for the reduction. (Automotive News)
 Tony Stewart, the three-time Nascar Sprint Cup Series champion, broke his right leg in a crash Monday night, according to a statement from Stewart-Haas Racing. According to a report from The Des Moines Register, Stewart was leading the race when another car spun out, taking out the top three cars. This is Stewart's third crash over the last month, although the compound tibia-fibula fracture he suffered during Monday's race will take him out of commission for a while. (Nascar)
 Not only has Consumer Reports added the 2014 Chevrolet Impala to its list of best sedans this year, it has topped the list with the redesigned American car. The Impala is the only domestic car to have made the cut this year - the list is largely populated with BMW, Mercedes and Lexus models - and is the first domestic sedan to top the list since Consumer Reports began rating cars in 1992. (Consumer Reports)
 Cyclists in the Holy Land are getting a bicycle lane, according to a report from Green Prophet. Running along a busy roadway in Jericho, the 1.2-kilometer trail cost about $240,000 to build and will open at the end of Ramadan. Part of the motivation for the path was to reduce the number of fatal accidents caused by cyclists and motorists sharing the same lanes. Samar Zaina, the engineer in charge of Jericho's municipal planning for the project, told Green Prophet that she visited many foreign cities to see how they set up their bike lanes before beginning work on the two-lane bicycle route. (Green Prophet)
 The company Hydrogen Frontier will open a hydrogen fueling station at a Hyundai testing site in Chino, Calif. The Hyundai site already had hydrogen fueling equipment, which had been installed in 2005. Hydrogen Frontier will modernize and upgrade the station, which is scheduled to open to the public by October 2014. (Newspress USA)

        
Wheelies: The Dueling Fords Edition
        
Wheelies: The Steve McQueen Camper Edition
        
Wheelies: The End of an Era Edition
        
Wheelies: The Fabled Ferrari Edition
        
Wheelies: The Flying Car Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PICKUP TRUCKS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); BONE FRACTURES (90%); SEDANS (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (90%); CYCLING (89%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (87%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); NASCAR RACING (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); CITIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (67%); RAMADAN (61%) automobiles; Bicycles and Bicycling; California; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Ford Motor Co; General Motors; Hyundai Motor Co; Jerusalem (Israel); Sports Utility Vehicles and Light Trucks; Automobiles; Ford Motor Co|F|NYSE; General Motors|GM|NYSE

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; General Motors; Hyundai Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (57%) Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%) California; Jerusalem (Israel)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



191 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Fishing License Becomes Issue for Liz Cheney in Wyoming Senate Race

BYLINE: RICHARD L. BERKE


HIGHLIGHT: Liz Cheney&#8217;s early purchase of a resident fishing license in Wyoming has inflamed her critics in the state, who have already accused her of being an interloper who should not dare challenge Senator Michael B. Enzi in next year&#8217;s Republican primary. 

 BODY:
It sounds like a small-bore infraction: Liz Cheney, a United States Senate candidate in Wyoming, bought a state fishing license last summer even though she had not lived in the state for a year, as required. 
But the matter has inflamed her critics in the state, who have already labeled her an interloper and taken issue with her challenge to Senator Michael B. Enzi in next year's Republican primary. Mr. Enzi is a popular three-term incumbent who is as conservative as Ms. Cheney.
"It's a serious misstep," said Liz Brimmer, a Republican strategist in Wyoming and former chief of staff to former Senator Craig Thomas, a Republican. "Allegedly poaching in a state where being a resident sportsman is, by law, an earned privilege. Wyoming people will take this very seriously." 
According to state records, Ms. Cheney, daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney, bought the $24 game and hunting license in August of 2012 at Westbank Anglers in Teton Village. She had moved to the state the previous May. She is also listed on the application of having lived in Wyoming for 10 years.
Ms. Cheney and her spokeswoman declined requests for an interview. But she told the Star Tribune in Casper, which first reported the story with The Associated Press, "The clerk must have made a mistake. I never claimed to be a 10-year resident."
She also said she was unaware of the one-year residency requirement.
Alan Dubberley, a spokesman for the Wyoming Game and Fish Department, said the agency was not ready to declare whether Ms. Cheney faced fines. "We have an ongoing investigation," he said. "The law is extremely complicated."
In recent interviews in the Jackson Hole area, near where Ms. Cheney lives, many Republicans questioned her candidacy, accusing her of not truly understand Wyoming. She had long lived in Virginia, outside Washington, D.C.
Mark Newcomb, an environmental economist who supports Mr. Enzi, dismissed the Cheney campaign's contention that she would bring new energy to the state.
"She's probably as much old guard as anyone else," he said. "She comes from a political family and she can't fool me."
Ms. Cheney, mindful of such criticism, is crisscrossing the sprawling state and keeping her distance from the city she called home until last year. Despite the presence of many friends and former colleagues in the Washington, D.C., area, she has purposefully not held a fund-raiser in the capital in the weeks since she announced her bid.
"She has made multiple visits to all the counties and is now making another round; doing visits and events with Wyoming voters," said Mary Matalin, a close friend of Ms. Cheney, when asked about the notable absence of Beltway fund-raisers. "To everything there is a season." 
 Jonathan Martin contributed reporting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); SPORT FISHING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); FUNDRAISING (66%) Congress; Elections

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

PERSON: MIKE ENZI (89%); DICK CHENEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPER, WY, USA (58%) WYOMING, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



192 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: 10 Questions for Rand Paul

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: John Harwood of The Times and CNBC interviewed Senator Rand Paul for the NPR program &#8220;On Point,&#8221; produced by WBUR-Boston. What follows is a condensed, edited version of their conversation. 

 BODY:
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky has drawn more attention than most Republican politicians lately, as his party searches for a winning national formula. Clashing with the likes of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie - a potential 2016 presidential rival - he has promoted a libertarian brand of Republican politics featuring a less aggressive foreign policy, a more tolerant social policy, and smaller government.
John Harwood of The Times and CNBC interviewed Mr. Paul for the NPR program "On Point," produced by WBUR-Boston. What follows is a condensed, edited version of their conversation.
 Q. 
 What is the goal that you've set for yourself in your political career?
 A. 
 If we want to grow and be a dominant national party, or even a competitive national party, we need to look like the rest of America. We need black people, brown people, white people. People with tattoos, without tattoos, with ties, without ties - we need to look and represent a broad spectrum of people from working class to business class. We don't do a good enough job on that. My goal over the next year or two is to try to broaden our appeal. 
 Q. 
 Beyond the next year or two, do you plan to run for president?
 A. 
 I'm thinking about it, and we're talking with family. We'll look at it over the next year or so and see how successful we are basically at trying to grow the party before making a decision.
 Q. 
 How would you distinguish the philosophy of your father, who ran for president three times, from yours?
 A. 
 I have a great deal of respect for my father. I think he's one of the few genuinely honest people that ever went to Congress. We don't agree on everything. We have some things in common: we believe in limited constitutional government, a very strict interpretation of that, we believe in privacy, a less aggressive foreign policy. There will be distinguishing characteristics. I just don't think it's useful to go through a list of that.
 Q. 
 What did the overwhelming defeat of your amendment cutting off [aid to] Egypt tell you about how much progress you're making?
 A. 
 I've got a long ways to go. It tells me really, though, the Senate's out of touch. Because if you take that same question, and we poll your audience and ask them: Should we continue to send money to Egypt when they burn our flag, or do you think we should try to take care of some of the roads and projects we've got in our country, I think you'd get a reverse result.
We don't have enough money to be everywhere all the time around the world. Should we be sending arms to Islamic rebels in Syria? I think you'll find the vast majority of Republican Party voters at the grass roots are opposed to that, and I know most Democrats are opposed to it. And yet the leaders of both parties are eager to send more money to Egypt, and have more arms and more involvement in war. 
 Q. 
 You've invoked the rights of black Americans, you spoke at Howard University and you've talked about commitment to outreach. What conclusion should people draw from the presence of that former shock jock Jack Hunter on your staff, who was identified as the Southern Avenger?
 A. 
 He's no longer on my staff. Many of the things he wrote were stupid, and I don't agree. They weren't things that I was aware of, or reasons why I hired him.
I do think, though, that he was unfairly treated by the media and he was put up as target practice for people to say he was a racist, and none of that is true. He got along fine with everybody in the office, and treated everyone fairly regardless of race or religion. We have a very varied office staff.
It's also unfair to paint a broad brush and say that's who I am. I think there is no greater defender, truly, of minority rights if you include minorities to be color of your skin or the color of your ideology than myself.
 Q. 
 Let me read you something that The Economist, the British magazine, wrote: "The only notable libertarian-leaning politicians to generate real excitement among conservative voters have risen to prominence through alliances with racist and nativist movements."
 A. 
 I don't accept all of that. And I don't really need to spend the time. If you want to talk about issues, and what I stand for, I'm happy to. But I'm not going to really go through an interview responding to every yahoo in the world who wants to throw up a canard.
 Q. 
 But if somebody sees the record of Jack Hunter, who wrote a book with you ...
 A. 
 Why don't we talk about Rand Paul? I'm the one doing the interview. You can go ahead and beat up on an ex-employee of mine, but why don't we talk about Rand Paul, what I'm trying to do to grow the party? And then we might have an intelligent discussion. Why don't we talk about what libertarian Republicanism means and what it would do for the party?
 Q. 
 There was a Pew study which concluded that only 10 percent of the electorate was libertarian. How do you take a core that small and turn it into a majority?
 A. 
 No candidate or person or voter is purely any one segment. You may be libertarian on some issues, you may be conservative on other issues. Politics is about fusing together the best elements of different ideologies.
The ideas that I represent - talking about no longer sending money overseas to countries that hate us, talking about a less aggressive foreign policy, a balanced budget - you'll find that actually represents a large segment of the Republican Party. And I think it's attractive to independents as well.
 Q. 
 What about the fact that the two biggest domestic spending programs, Medicare and Social Security, are highly popular, and the libertarian movement at its core doesn't believe in those programs?
 A. 
 You paint with a broad brush, and you try to make libertarianism to be something you want to beat up on. No one that I know of who is a libertarian conservative is advocating abolishing Social Security or Medicare. We are advocating that they be paid for.
Medicare is $35-to-40 trillion short, in the hole. For every retiree, we pay $3 for every $1 they paid in. It's an untenable entitlement and the way you have to fix it is to go through reform. But the president's been unwilling to step forward and be a leader on these issues.
To build up a straw man and argue against a straw man, you're just making stuff up.
 Q. 
 How do you think the exchange you had with Gov. Christie came out?
 A. 
 If we want to have a strong national defense, we have to be fiscally conservative and cut in other places. You can't ask for a blank check - even for disaster aid. So I think that point is loud and clear for conservatives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (60%); RELIGION (50%) Congress

PERSON: RAND PAUL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



193 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: The Sacrosanct Mortgage Interest Deduction

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: There are more effective ways to help homeowners with their taxes, but Congress has never shown an appetite for eliminating the deductibility of mortgage interest, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of the forthcoming book "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take."
When people talk about "sacred cows" in the tax code, the deduction for mortgage interest is usually at the top of the list. But it is just one of many tax expenditures benefiting homeowners. Other important ones include the deduction for property taxes and low taxes on the gains from sales of primary residences. 
Contrary to popular belief, the mortgage interest deduction wasn't adopted to encourage home ownership. The original income tax enacted in 1913 allowed a deduction for all interest on the theory that it was largely business-oriented. According to Dennis Ventry of the University of California, Davis, School of Law, only a third of homeowners carried a mortgage in 1910.
It should also be noted that the personal exemption was $3,000 in 1913, equivalent to $70,000 today. Consequently, very few taxpayers could deduct any interest at all. Only 357,000 tax returns were filed in a population of 97 million.
Renting was a much more common form of housing before World War II. According to the Census Bureau, in 1940 just 44 percent of the population were homeowners. As I noted last week, only 3 percent of the population paid any income taxes at the time, rising to 30 percent by the end of the war.
The spread of income taxes made the middle class much more interested in finding deductions to reduce their tax liability, and the mortgage interest deduction was one that was easily available. It helped fuel a rise in the home ownership rate to 55 percent by 1950 and 62 percent in 1960. It's now 66 percent.

While the rising percentage of Americans owning a home has paralleled the broadening of the income tax, there is surprisingly little hard evidence that the mortgage interest deduction has encouraged home ownership. The Harvard economists Edward L. Glaeser and Jesse M. Shapiro have found that it has only a trivial impact.
A major reason is that the deduction has long been capitalized into the prices of homes. That is, home prices are higher than they would be without the deduction. Thus to the extent that the deduction encourages home ownership, it is exactly offset by the extent to which high prices discourage home ownership.
It is likely that if mortgage interest had never been deductible the home ownership rate would be similar to what it is today. Indeed, it might even be higher, according to research by the economists Matthew Chambers, Carlos Garriga and Donald E. Schlagenhauf. They contend that without deductibility tax rates could have been lower, which would have raised after-tax incomes, making it easier to afford a home.
There is further evidence from foreign countries. According to a recent paper by the economists Steven C. Bourassa, Donald R. Haurin, Patric H. Henderschott and Martin Hoesli, there is little evidence that mortgage interest deductibility has any impact on home ownership rates one way or another. As the table from their paper shows, many countries without deductibility have higher home ownership rates than we do, and some with deductibility have lower rates.
Reformers have long asserted that there are negative social and economic consequences to the mortgage interest deduction insofar as it does increase home ownership. For example, it may encourage people to buy more expensive homes even if it doesn't affect the rate of ownership. To the extent that the deduction encouraged greater indebtedness, it may have contributed to the recent financial crisis. 
As we know, a crucial problem has been that many homeowners found themselves "under water" as the value of their homes fell below the balance of their mortgages. A key contributor to excessive housing debt is the deductibility of home equity loans that can be used for personal consumption.
Economists also assert that mortgage interest deductibility may have encouraged Americans to overinvest in housing at the expense of investments in stocks and bonds that would have led to more investment by businesses in plants, equipment, research and development and so on that would have raised productivity and wages. They also suggest that excessive home ownership has made workers less mobile when the housing market is weak, unable to move to where jobs are more plentiful because they can't sell their house for enough to cover their mortgage.
Tax reformers have long eyed the mortgage interest deduction. In the Tax Reform Act of 1986 they managed to limit deductibility to mortgages of less than $1 million. Last week, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, said he would seek lower tax rates for individuals and companies while altering the deductions for mortgage interest and charitable contributions. In an interview with Bloomberg Television, he did not spell out what alterations he would seek.
Other nations have taken steps to limit or end mortgage interest deductibility. Finland adopted a reform in 1993 that limited the rate at which taxpayers could deduct mortgage interest. In Britain, deductibility was eliminated in 2000.
One idea that often comes up is replacing the mortgage interest deduction with a tax credit. It would hold harmless most homeowners in terms of their tax liability, while improving fairness and raising net revenue that could finance tax rate reductions. This has been proposed by those on the right, including the American Enterprise Institute economist Alan Viard, and those on the left, including the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.
The principal constraint on any reform is that the mortgage interest deduction is very popular, according to every poll on the subject. Typical are a CBS News poll in December 2012 that found 62 percent of respondents opposed elimination of the mortgage interest deduction and a New York Times/CBS News poll in June 2011, which asked people how important the deduction is. An overwhelming 93 percent of people said it was (63 percent said "very" and 30 percent said "somewhat"). On the other hand, an October 2012 poll by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press found that 47 percent of people would support limiting the mortgage interest deduction with 44 percent opposed.
The main argument for reforming the mortgage interest deduction is simple math - it is the second largest tax expenditure, reducing federal revenues by more than $100 billion. It will be harder to reduce tax rates if the deduction is declared off limits.

        
The Deduction for State and Local Taxes
        
Moving Forward on Housing Reform
        
Progress on Housing Finance Reform
        
Zero-Based Tax Reform
        
Getting to Tax Reform

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (89%); TAX RELIEF (77%); WRITERS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); TAX REFORM (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); CENSUS (68%) Home Equity Loans; Income Tax; Law and Legislation; Mortgages; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Tax Expenditures; Today's Economist

PERSON: RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013



194 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BERGER, ELIZABETH

 BODY:
BERGER--Elizabeth. Lower Manhattan and all of New York City has lost a visionary in Liz Berger. So many of us at CBRE have been lucky to count Liz as a business partner and a friend. A decades-long resident of Lower Manhattan, Liz helped shepherd Downtown's rebirth and transformation, and gave inspiration to so many through her efforts and passion for her community. We mourn her loss, and extend heartfelt condolences to her husband, Frederick Kaufman, and their two children. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (81%); ECONOMIC NEWS (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013



195 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: A Return to Downtown Birmingham

BYLINE: By JOE GOSE

 BODY:
Long scarred as the site of brutal civil rights struggles and decades of industrial collapse, downtown Birmingham, Ala., has struggled to attract new business or visitors, even from its own region.
But some recent efforts give the city a bit of hope.
The centrally located $25 million Railroad Park, 19 acres with lakes, an amphitheater and lots of green space, opened three years ago and has become a symbol for reviving the downtown district. Not only do thousands of tourists visit the park, but former city residents are also venturing downtown again after years of suburban life. 
As evidence of continued growth, Regions Field, an 8,500-seat minor-league baseball stadium, opened in April just south of Railroad Park, another downtown attraction for the city's roster. Other noteworthy projects include a heavily subsidized $70 million Westin Hotel and entertainment district in the city's convention area, and a $7 million renovation of the Lyric, a former vaudeville theater nearly 100 years old and barely used since 1958.
While the downtown area somehow escaped the failed urban renewal efforts that razed buildings of historical significance in other cities, the district is home to an estimated 1.6 million square feet of largely vacant buildings constructed before World War II.
To help encourage more renovation, Alabama lawmakers in May approved a bill offering developers up to $5 million in state historical tax credits to help pay for projects. Other incentives, like federal historical tax credits and low-interest loans, are available, too.
''The momentum downtown is palpable,'' said Derek R. Waltchack, a principal of Shannon Waltchack, a Birmingham-based property brokerage and investment firm. ''You have all the pieces in place for it to be really hot for the next 10 years.''
That activity and other developments have created a buzz that downtown's resurgence is permanent, said David Fleming, chief executive of REV Birmingham, an economic development organization focused on revitalizing the city's urban areas. To him, that is the most critical transformation of all.
''The one thing that has changed a lot is the public's general attitude toward downtown,'' he said. ''There's a feeling that it is back, and that wasn't true 10 years ago.''
The city still faces a potential hurdle in persuading companies outside the area to relocate or expand downtown. Birmingham is the seat of Jefferson County, which in 2008 began wrestling with a daunting fiscal crisis when interest rates on a $3.2 billion sewer bond issue ballooned to 10 percent from 3 percent during the financial crisis. Unable to meet debt payments, the county eventually made a $4.2 billion bankruptcy filing in 2011 -- the largest government bankruptcy in United States history until Detroit's filing last month -- and residents and businesses are certain to face a big sewer rate increase as the case winds it way to settlement.
The bankruptcy may be keeping businesses outside Jefferson County from moving in, Mr. Fleming conceded, but he maintains that it has not dampened the optimism about downtown or hampered the ability of Birmingham to foster growth in the district.
''I know that my sewer rates are going to go up,'' he said. ''But for everybody that's here, it's business as usual.''
REV Birmingham estimates that around 9,400 people lived downtown and in neighborhoods immediately surrounding it at the end of 2010, an increase of 36 percent from 2000. While the organization does not have a firm number on how many people have moved downtown since then, more than 1,000 housing units are under construction or are in the planning stages. That would take the total residential stock in the city center to more than 4,000 units.
Among other projects, Bayer Properties of Birmingham next year intends to begin rehabilitating the Pizitz building, a former eight-story department store. The firm plans to gut the 90-year-old, terra cotta-clad structure and create 150 apartment units as well as 20,000 square feet of ground floor retail space.
State and federal historical tax credits and other incentives are important to the project's financing, representing some 20 percent or more of the $60 million cost, said David L. Silverstein, a principal of Bayer Properties. Mr. Silverstein and a business partner bought the building and an adjacent parking deck in 2000 with plans to redo it into offices and retail space. But the financial crisis delayed the development and gave the partners a chance to reassess.
''There has been a tremendous amount of movement toward people living and working and shopping in downtown,'' he said. ''So when we bring this project online, we believe it will be well received by the market.''
Meanwhile, law firms, architects, accountants and other professionals are repositioning old buildings, too, said John Lauriello, a principal of Southpace, a Birmingham-based property brokerage firm. The law firm Hollis Wright Clay & Vail, for example, bought an 8,250-square-foot building in June and plans to move into it this fall after a renovation.
Downtown also is attracting suburban companies that until recently would have never dreamed of moving to the district, said Mr. Lauriello, a longtime downtown proponent and business owner. Like others, he credits Railroad Park for changing attitudes, particularly among younger people who are not carrying the town's 1960s baggage.
''People that don't live here used to say with pride, 'I haven't been to downtown Birmingham for 10 or 15 years,' '' he said. ''They wore it as a badge of honor.''
Mr. Waltchack, who operated his business in the suburbs for years, could have counted himself among them. But a trip to Railroad Park with his children soon after it opened helped change his mind about an investment opportunity in two buildings near the park that he had turned down a few months before. Eventually he and other investors bought the century-old structures and completed a $4 million renovation to turn them into 42,000 square feet of offices known as Railroad Square. Shannon Waltchack moved its offices into the project along with a handful of other tenants.
Now Shannon Waltchack is spearheading a similar redevelopment for a two-story warehouse and surrounding buildings totaling 40,000 square feet near Regions Field. Plans for the warehouse call for first-floor commercial space, second-floor apartments, and a rooftop deck overlooking center field.
''If you would have called me four years ago and asked, 'Derek, would you consider moving your office downtown?' I would have said, 'Never,' '' Mr. Waltchack said. ''We're a good case study in how much things have changed here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the lobby of Railroad Square in Birmingham, Ala. The office building resulted in part from a local developer's rethinking of a downtown investment.
 The lobby and exterior of the Pizitz building, a former department store that is to be remade into 150 apartment units and retail space. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GARY TRAMONTINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (85%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); HISTORY (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); RELOCATIONS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (70%); SUBURBS (70%); BASEBALL (69%); BOND ISSUES (65%); LEGISLATION (65%); BONDS (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); WORLD WAR II (51%); APPROVALS (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (95%) ALABAMA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013



196 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Sees Higher Costs in a Union-Friendly Mayor

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
Warning of the fiscal danger if New York City fails to rein in its spiraling pension and health care costs, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg on Tuesday challenged his would-be successors to take a tough line in negotiations with the city's unions, while worrying aloud that whoever is elected will be too beholden to labor.
''We can't wake up tomorrow morning -- the day after the election -- and find that some candidate has made a back-room deal with one of the unions that sets the pattern for all the other unions that will eventually lead to stopping the growth in this city,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, departing from his prepared remarks at the end of a speech in Brooklyn on the city's economy and fiscal situation. 
''We cannot afford certain things,'' he continued. ''It's tough to say no. It's particularly tough to say no when nobody wants anybody to get hurt. But the bottom line: this is the taxpayers' money, and this is our future.''
Mr. Bloomberg's speech, delivered at a former Pfizer manufacturing plant that is now home to some two dozen small companies, producing everything from 3D printers to kimchi, was in part an attempt to burnish his record of fiscal stewardship, which is hotly debated. He argued that he has determinedly tried to reform pensions and health care but has been stymied by unions.
Fiscal watchdogs note that his administration presided over a 40 percent increase in the city budget, and in his second term handed out raises without demanding concessions on pensions and health care. And some of the mayoral candidates have accused him of irresponsibility in allowing all of the municipal labor contracts to expire.
Mr. Bloomberg said unions had ''decided to wait us out and seek a better deal with my successor.''
''The question is: Will the next mayor continue to hold the line -- or capitulate?'' he asked.
Over the course of Mr. Bloomberg's three terms in office, the city's annual pension costs have increased from $1.4 billion to more than $8 billion as a result of raises, pension sweeteners and a growing number of retirees, while health care spending has swelled to $6.3 billion. The city also has $85 billion in unfunded liabilities for future retiree health care benefits.
A major question facing the next mayor will be whether to grant retroactive raises, which the unions are seeking, but for which the city has not budgeted. Mr. Bloomberg said on Tuesday that the city ''can't afford retroactive raises.''
He also said the city would send out a request for proposals next week for new health care coverage, with the aim of reducing costs by $400 million annually. But a spokesman for Harry Nespoli, the chairman of the Municipal Labor Committee, which negotiates with the city on health care benefits, said the committee had not signed off on the request for proposals yet. And Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged that, even if new bids are sought now, the process would last beyond his tenure, saying that ''it will be a fight the public will have to force the next mayor to pursue.''
The mayor's speech drew mixed reactions from those seeking to replace him.
Bill de Blasio, a Democrat, criticized Mr. Bloomberg for failing to address income inequality in the city, but praised his efforts at economic diversification, and said, ''We also must negotiate responsible contracts with our city's hard-working public employees -- including smartly addressing the rise in the cost of health care and retirement security for New York's workers.''
Joseph J. Lhota, a Republican, offered unqualified praise for Mr. Bloomberg's speech, and said, ''I am the only candidate who has repeatedly said the city cannot afford retroactive raises for public employee unions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael R. Bloomberg, in an appearance in Brooklyn on Tuesday, cautioned his would-be successors not to capitulate when negotiating pension and health care benefits for city workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); PENSION REFORM (73%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (58%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013



197 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Julius Chambers, 76, Dies; A Fighter for Civil Rights

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Julius L. Chambers, a civil rights lawyer who endured firebombings of his house, office and car in winning case after case against racial segregation, including one that led to a landmark Supreme Court decision allowing forced busing, died on Friday at his home in Charlotte, N.C. He was 76.
Geraldine Sumter, a law partner, confirmed the death, saying Mr. Chambers had had a heart attack in April and had been in declining health.
Mr. Chambers began championing civil rights well before he succeeded Thurgood Marshall and Jack Greenberg as president and director-counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund in 1984. Two decades earlier, he had left an internship at the fund to open a one-man law practice in Charlotte specializing in civil rights, its office in a cold-water walk-up. It grew to become North Carolina's first integrated law firm. 
In 1965, his second year in private practice, Mr. Chambers was working alongside the legal defense fund when he took on 35 school desegregation suits and 20 suits charging discrimination in public accommodations. One court victory that year barred the Shrine Bowl of the Carolinas, a charity football game, from excluding black players.
Another, far-reaching 1965 case was filed on behalf of a 6-year-old, James Swann, and nine other families alleging that school district policies had put black students in segregated schools. Mr. Chambers and the legal defense fund persuaded a federal judge, James B. McMillan, to order busing to promote integration of public schools.
The case went to the Supreme Court, and in 1971, in Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education, the justices upheld the judge's ruling, granting federal courts the power to order busing to force racial integration. The ruling had the effect of ending government-sanctioned segregation in Southern schools.
In 2002, the Supreme Court allowed Charlotte, like many other cities, to end busing as a means to achieve integration, saying the goal had been achieved. Mr. Chambers opposed the ruling, arguing that blacks continued to receive an inferior education in racially imbalanced schools.
Mr. Chambers took on job discrimination in a suit that also found its way to the Supreme Court. In the case, Griggs v. Duke Power Co., the court ruled in 1971 that some of Duke's hiring requirements, like a high school education or a certain I.Q. level, were irrelevant to some jobs and had the effect of excluding qualified black workers. It said employers must justify any rule that has disproportionate effects on minorities by proving that the rule is necessary for business reasons.
Mr. Chambers's victories came with a cost. In the wake of the Supreme Court's decision in Swann, his offices were firebombed. After his successes in 1965, his car was firebombed and two bombs exploded in his home.
His response was defiant; he said he would ''keep fighting.'' It was also measured. ''We must accept this type of practice,'' he said, ''from those less in control of their faculties.''
Julius LeVonne Chambers was born on Oct. 6, 1936, in Mount Gilead, N.C., where his father, William, owned a garage and general store. As the third of four children, Julius was looking forward to following his two older siblings to the Laurinburg Institute, a historically black preparatory school. But his father told him that there would be no money for his tuition because a white customer had refused to pay for repairs to a truck. His father had paid for the parts out of his own pocket.
The elder Mr. Chambers sought the help of white lawyers in town, but all refused to take the case. In that moment, Julius Chambers said, he decided on a legal career.
Mr. Chambers graduated from high school in May 1954, the month the Supreme Court ordered an end to school segregation in Brown v. Board of Education. He went to North Carolina College, a historically black institution now known as North Carolina Central University, where he was student body president and graduated summa cum laude.
He earned a master's degree in history from the University of Michigan and a law degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which had only just begun admitting blacks, reluctantly. He was elected editor in chief of The North Carolina Law Review.
He also graduated first in his law school class but was barred from attending its end-of-year banquet at the segregated Chapel Hill Country Club.
Mr. Chambers headed north, becoming a teaching associate at Columbia Law School, where he earned a master's of law degree. While there, Thurgood Marshall, who would become the nation's first black Supreme Court justice, selected him as one of two interns to be trained by the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund and then sent him South to take on civil rights cases. The other intern was Marian Wright Edelman, who is now president of the Children's Defense Fund.
Mr. Chambers's private practice in Charlotte grew to 11 members by 1972, 5 of whom were white. Forty percent of their cases involved civil rights.
After assuming leadership of the legal defense fund in 1984, Mr. Chambers expanded its mission to include economic issues like high unemployment and inferior municipal services in inner cities as outgrowths of racial discrimination. He called it the Poverty Justice program.
He had continued to win cases before the Supreme Court. In one, in 1975, the court endorsed his argument that an employee who proves discrimination is entitled to back pay. In another case, in 1986, concerning voting rights, the court ruled that intent is not necessary to establish a violation of the voting rights of racial minorities.
One of Mr. Chambers's trickier cases involved a longstanding disagreement with the N.A.A.C.P. over the legal defense fund's name. The fund began as the N.A.A.C.P.'s legal arm but was spun off in 1939. In 1957, Mr. Marshall made it independent of the N.A.A.C.P.
The N.A.A.C.P. created its own legal department and in 1982 sued the fund for trademark infringement, arguing that sharing the name could confuse potential donors. But in 1985, a federal appeals court permitted the fund to keep its name.
Mr. Chambers became president of North Carolina Central University, his alma mater, in 1993. He returned to his law practice in Charlotte in 2001.
Mr. Chambers's wife, the former Vivian Giles, died last year. He is survived by his son, Derrick; his daughter, Judy Chambers; and three grandchildren.
In a reminiscence he wrote after Mr. Chambers's death, John Charles Boger, dean of the University of North Carolina law school, recalled when, as a young lawyer at the legal defense fund, he gathered with Mr. Chambers and with other lawyers at his office before going to lunch. They noticed that an older black woman, humbly dressed, had come in and was sitting quietly.
Mr. Chambers asked why she had come. She hesitated, then said that her son had special needs and that he had been locked in a supply cabinet at school without justification. She said the school's officials seemed indifferent.
''Come to lunch with us,'' Mr. Chambers said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Julius L. Chambers in 1984. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON HOGAN CHARLES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); RACE & RACISM (91%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); APPEALS (89%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); JUDGES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (74%); BOMBINGS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (81%)

ORGANIZATION: NAACP LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATIONAL FUND (57%)

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (81%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013



198 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Many Mayoral Candidates Have Been What Bloomberg Is Not: Close to Cuomo

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
John A. Catsimatidis let Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo borrow a Gulfstream IV jet this spring so he could fly to Binghamton, N.Y., for a wedding. Bill de Blasio was a deputy to Mr. Cuomo during the Clinton administration; William C. Thompson Jr. was a chairman of Mr. Cuomo's gubernatorial campaign; and Joseph J. Lhota served in his administration.
For the last several years, Mr. Cuomo has not had much of a friendship with City Hall in New York -- he and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg have been, at best, civil partners during civic emergencies, and, notwithstanding a friendly white-water rafting race last month in the Adirondacks, have rarely expressed much affection or respect for each other.
But the field of candidates vying to succeed Mr. Bloomberg presents Mr. Cuomo with a rare opportunity to hit the reset button: many, from both political parties, have long, close, political and personal relationships with him. 
''Governor Cuomo is a guy who wants to get it done,'' said Christine C. Quinn, a Democrat and the speaker of the City Council. ''I learned an immense amount from Andrew Cuomo,'' said Mr. de Blasio, also a Democrat. ''You see him wear my ties all the time,'' said Mr. Catsimatidis, a Republican who says the Democratic governor often sports limited-edition neckwear that Mr. Catsimatidis designs and gives annually to his friends.
Mr. Cuomo, who grew up in Queens but now lives and votes in Westchester County, has studiously avoided getting involved in the race, publicly or privately. There have been a few exceptions -- he has made it clear that he finds the notion of former Representative Anthony D. Weiner as mayor to be unacceptable -- but otherwise he tended to parry questions about the race by describing it as a form of performance art that makes the city entertaining.
''This is summer political theater in New York,'' he said last week. ''We laugh, because if we didn't laugh, we would cry.''
But much is at stake, for the state and the city. The city provides much of the economic fuel for the state, and the mayor of New York has a national bully pulpit, but the state has much of the political power to decide important issues in the five boroughs, which has often created tension between the Capitol and City Hall. Mr. Bloomberg, for example, counts Albany's rejection of his congestion pricing proposal as one of the great disappointments of his tenure.
Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Bloomberg are poorly matched. Mr. Cuomo, whose father was a governor, is a tough and shrewd inside player, while Mr. Bloomberg, a self-made billionaire, is impatient with the political process; Mr. Bloomberg has often been frustrated by his inability to persuade Albany to support significant elements of his agenda, while Mr. Cuomo has chafed at Mr. Bloomberg's periodic imperiousness and envied his ability to command attention.
Much of the agenda being outlined by the candidates -- proposals about rent regulation, housing development, criminal justice policy and mayoral control of schools and subways -- requires approval by Albany, which has been the death of many a mayoral proposal.
But translating friendships into political alliances can be difficult. Already, for example, the relationship between Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio has strained, as Mr. de Blasio has criticized the Cuomo administration for doing too little to save Long Island College Hospital. Mr. Thompson, who played an important role in 2010 shoring up Mr. Cuomo's relationship with black voters, said past allegiances were helpful, but no guarantee of future harmony.
''We're going to disagree,'' he said. ''That's just the nature of both of those jobs.''
Several of the candidates have said they want to change the relationship between Albany and City Hall.
Mr. de Blasio has derided what he called a ''quasi-colonial dynamic'' between the state and the city, while also acknowledging that he has to work within its strictures. ''Bluntly, this current mayor had trouble at times understanding that the governor and the Legislature have certain powers that he depended on and that he needed to work with constructively,'' he said. ''I think at times he really undermined his own agenda by not recognizing that reality.''
And Mr. Weiner has made the relationship a part of his campaign: on July 3, he stood in front of City Hall next to an easel bearing a giant blue placard with the title, ''A Big Apple Declaration of Independence From Albany,'' and a list of 10 areas in which he wanted the city to have authority instead of the state, including charter schools, liquor licensing and the redevelopment of ground zero.
''So much of our lives in New York City are governed by legislators in Buffalo, legislators in Schenectady and legislators in Plattsburgh,'' Mr. Weiner said, before making an offer to upstate legislators. ''You let us govern New York City, and I promise I won't try to govern what goes on in Binghamton.''
Mr. Cuomo's longest standing relationship in this year's field is with George T. McDonald, an advocate for the homeless who is running a long-shot campaign for mayor as a Republican. Mr. McDonald met Mr. Cuomo in 1984 when both men were working on the Democratic presidential campaign of Walter F. Mondale, and they later connected over their shared concern about homelessness -- Mr. McDonald founded the Doe Fund, a nonprofit group that helps find jobs for the indigent, and Mr. Cuomo founded HELP USA, which develops housing for the homeless.
''I love him like a brother,'' Mr. McDonald said.
Mr. McDonald and his wife, Harriet Karr-McDonald, have supported Mr. Cuomo financially, donating over $100,000 to his campaigns over the years. Mr. McDonald was also invited to Mr. Cuomo's private 55th birthday party last year, and caused a bit of a stir when he posted on Twitter a picture of the birthday cake, apparently offending someone on Team Cuomo, because the photo was quickly deleted.
Mr. Catsimatidis has also known Andrew Cuomo for decades -- since Andrew was a young aide to his father, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo -- and, despite belonging to a different political party, he and his wife, Margo, have personally given over $200,000 to Mr. Cuomo's campaigns. Mr. Catsimatidis said he did not believe that as mayor he would clash with Mr. Cuomo: ''I am not a clasher; I am a person that's usually a hugger.''
Mr. de Blasio, the public advocate, met Mr. Cuomo in the mid-1990s through a friend, Ken Sunshine, a onetime mayoral aide who is now a well-known publicist. Mr. de Blasio worked for Mr. Cuomo when he was the federal housing secretary, and they were close enough that when Mr. Cuomo's bid for governor in 2002 imploded, he trusted Mr. de Blasio to help negotiate his exit from the race.
''He is an extraordinary manager,'' Mr. de Blasio said. ''I learned a lot from him strategically; I learned a lot from him about how to create a focused, achievable agenda, and follow it through. It was a very important few years in my life.''
Mr. Thompson and Mr. Lhota are more recent allies.
Mr. Thompson supported Mr. Cuomo's bid for attorney general in 2006 and Mr. Cuomo supported Mr. Thompson's run for mayor in 2009. After being a chairman of Mr. Cuomo's gubernatorial campaign in 2010, Mr. Thompson went on to serve him as chairman of a committee tasked with increasing the participation of minority- and women-owned businesses in state contracting.
Mr. Lhota barely knew Mr. Cuomo until 2011, when the governor named him to run the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, but Mr. Lhota oversaw an area of pride for the Cuomo administration, shepherding the subway system to a speedy reopening after Hurricane Sandy.
Ms. Quinn has known Mr. Cuomo for some time, and worked closely with him in 2011 as they pushed for the legalization of same-sex marriage. After it passed, she introduced him at a gala dinner for a gay rights group, and he thanked her by saying, ''The best is yet to be for Christine Quinn''; the next year, he was a guest at her wedding, sitting in the third row on the aisle.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo with three of the current mayoral hopefuls, from left: Joseph J. Lhota in 2012, Christine C. Quinn in 2011 and William C. Thompson Jr. in 2010. Mr. Lhota is a Republican
Mr. Cuomo and the others are Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BOATING & RAFTING (70%); EXTREME SPORTS (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (62%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%); JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); ANTHONY D WEINER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (57%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013



199 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Thinking Outside The Newspaper Box

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM and AMY O'LEARY; Nick Wingfield contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The big news in newspapers -- that Jeffrey P. Bezos is buying The Washington Post -- was not even 24 hours old when shock and wisecracks about the unexpected $250 million deal began to give way to acceptance and even envy.
What, many are asking, does Mr. Bezos, the billionaire founder and chief executive of Amazon.com, see in a 135-year-old newspaper that others do not?
If Mr. Bezos's business history is any indication, don't expect a quick answer and don't expect any short-term fixes for The Post, which has suffered from years of sliding revenue and circulation. While terms like disrupter and innovator are often used to describe Mr. Bezos in his years at Amazon, he has also proved to be a long-term thinker, someone willing to buck Wall Street demands for big profits in order to invest in his company's growth.
Now that he is the private owner of The Post, it would not be surprising to see him worry little about turning a quick profit and instead push to upend the often ossified world of newspaper publishing, just as he did with books more than a decade ago. 
Indeed, Mr. Bezos, who declined a request for an interview, hinted in a letter to employees that he felt a ''need to invent, which means we will need to experiment,'' and that ''there will, of course, be change at The Post over the coming years.''
But just what those experiments will be is anyone's guess.
''Jeff Bezos doesn't need The Washington Post to make money tomorrow or even in five years,'' said Glenn Kelman, the founder and chief executive of Redfin, a real estate site that, like Amazon, is based in Seattle. ''He's proven that he's able to think over a geological time scale.''
In recent years, newspapers large and small have experimented with concepts aimed at capturing elusive online revenue to make up for losses in print circulation and advertising. The Post, for example, has dabbled in some experimental news products, including the creation of a social reader for Facebook and a recommendation engine called Trove.
Other news organizations have toyed with various strategies, most with limited success. The Daily, an iPad-only news app developed by News Corporation, shuttered after less than two years. The Wall Street Journal, The Financial Times, The New York Times and The Post have adopted various pay models for digital readers. The Guardian started a United States-based operation in 2011 to experiment with a digitally focused newsroom.
All of these companies have created mobile apps and made significant investments in online video, where advertising revenue is expected to grow, but no paper has cracked the code on how to replace steep declines in print advertising. Other traditional print magazines, like The New Yorker and Vogue, have digitized and sold portions of their archives.
They have also dabbled with new ways to make money through Amazon, particularly through the Kindle Singles, which are shorter e-books. Amazon's biggest influence has been disrupting the economics of newspapers through millions of its Kindle mobile devices.
Mr. Bezos said The Post would be run separately from Amazon, but there is little doubt that he will bring what he has learned over the years to the newspaper world.
''He's done an amazing job of bringing e-books to reality,'' said Matt Galligan, the co-founder of the mobile news start-up Circa. ''There's a strong likelihood that a similar transition could happen at The Post.''
Though Mr. Bezos demurely noted in his letter that he had no history in newspapers, that he is an outsider not steeped in the old ways of newspaper management has excited some.
''Washington Post to be sold to Jeff Bezos?! I'd actually return to the journalism world if I could work for him,'' wrote Adrian Holovaty on Twitter after the news broke.
Six years ago, Mr. Holovaty held the title ''editor for editorial innovation'' at The Post, but left in 2007. The co-creator of the popular Web framework Django, he thinks Mr. Bezos will bring ''fresh, baggage-less thinking.''
No baggage -- and deep pockets -- means room to try new things. Might Mr. Bezos apply tech industry concepts like frictionless payments, e-commerce integration, recommendation engines, data analytics or improved concepts for mobile reading?
One of the biggest challenges for any company trying to sell goods on the Web, whether it is a crop-top shirt or a news subscription, is ''creating relevance,'' said Deena Varshavskaya, the founder and chief executive of Wanelo, a stylish e-commerce site popular among young women.
That is an area where Mr. Bezos might be primed to flex his expertise in analyzing data to find ways to engage a younger audience. In addition, Mr. Bezos's money could come in handy when it comes to adding to the newspaper developers, engineers, designers and others who could radically change the way the organization looks and runs.
The tech industry from which Bezos has emerged certainly has offered new ways to consume news. Start-ups like Flipboard, Digg, Pocket and Feedly have long been testing and building out alternative ways to read and consume information on the Web and via mobile devices. That includes experimenting with news aggregation, recommendations and clever ways to bookmark interesting articles to read later.
James M. Brady, who was the executive editor of The Post's Web site from 2004 to 2008, said that traditional news outlets had struggled to build and experiment with the digital arms of their organizations while retaining the values that built the company.
''We all tried to do it on the news side, but when you're dealing with declining revenues and still trying to put out a daily news product, there's not much money left for the developer side,'' he said. ''We should have done it anyway, but at the time we were trying to preserve the core product, the daily newspaper.''
In other words, the new ownership is an opportunity for a tech-oriented reboot.
Mr. Kelman said that the steady flow of new ideas and the consumer reach of sites like Yahoo, Google, Facebook and Twitter meant that tech had a lot to say about the future of The Post and other newspapers. That a tech mogul is now also a newspaper mogul shouldn't be a shock.
''It used to be that in Silicon Valley we just built the platforms and someone else wrote the content,'' Mr. Kelman said. ''But that is changing. The lines have been blurred for a long time and this is just another step in that process.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Deena Varshavskaya, chief of the e-commerce site Wanelo, said a big challenge for doing business on the Web was ''creating relevance.'' Adrian Holovaty, who used to work at The Washington Post, said he thought the paper's new owner, Jeff Bezos, was primed to give it a fresh perspective. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES BEST JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Print vs. Digital: While circulation continues to decline for the print editions of the leading daily newspapers, their digital circulation grew by more than 40 percent in the last year. (Source: Alliance for Audited Media) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (64%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%); INTERNET VIDEO (61%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (85%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (84%); NEWS CORP (62%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (85%); NWS (NASDAQ) (62%); NWS (ASX) (62%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013



200 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap Falls, Hinting At Pickup in U.S. Growth

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A sharp decline in the trade deficit with other nations suggests the American economy grew this spring at a faster pace than previously estimated, helped by a record level of exports. 
The Commerce Department said on Tuesday that the United States trade gap fell more than 22 percent, to $34.2 billion, in June from May. That is lowest level since October 2009.
American companies shipped more aircraft engines, telecommunications equipment, heavy machinery and farm goods. As a result, exports rose 2.2 percent to a record high of $191.2 billion.
Imports declined 2.2 percent to $225.4 billion, in part because oil imports fell to the lowest level in more than two years.
Economists said the steep drop in the trade deficit would most likely lead the government to revise its economic growth estimate for the April-June quarter.
''We could see a sizable upward revision,'' said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets.
Last week the government said the economy grew at a lackluster 1.7 percent annual rate in the second quarter, in part because trade cut nearly a full percentage point from growth.
But after seeing the June trade figures -- which were not factored into last month's growth estimate -- some economists said growth could be closer to a 2.5 percent annual rate. The government reports its second estimate of growth for the April-June quarter on Aug. 29.
A smaller trade deficit lifts economic growth because it means consumers and businesses are spending less on foreign goods than companies are taking in from overseas sales.
Many economists say they think overall growth has started to rebound in the July-September quarter. Some say growth could come close to a 3 percent annual rate. A crucial reason is that several export markets, including Europe, are seeing improvement.
For June, United States exports to the 27-nation European Union rose 1.5 percent. That helped shrink the deficit with the region to $7.1 billion.
The deficit with China fell 4.3 percent, to $26.6 billion, while America's deficit with Japan rose 2.2 percent, to $5.5 billion in June.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

 
