

601 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
Putting Experience to Work

BYLINE:  By TANYA MOHN 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
BILL SCHACHTER, an instructor in a new Westchester County program for older job seekers, begins his class by whipping out photographs of his grandchildren. At 72, Mr. Schachter, who is frequently older than his students, understands physical as well as emotional hurts, including the frustrations of trying something new.
 In this case, in his classroom at the Westchester/Putnam One Stop Employment Center here, it's tackling the computer, a difficult and often scary undertaking for an age group ill at ease in a high-tech world. In the first five minutes he has broken the ice, created neutral ground. The students bring out their photos, of their grandchildren. 
 "When this is over," Mr. Schachter warns them, "I don't want to hear another word about your grandchildren."
"They laugh, then we get down to business," he said last week. 
For Judith Richburg, program administrator for the Westchester County Department of Senior Programs and Services, Mr. Schachter's rapport with his senior students is no surprise. Choosing a successful peer to teach the program "was not unintentional," Mrs. Richburg said. "Experience Counts," the name of Mrs. Richburg's brainchild begun earlier this year, is also no accident. By using "experience" in the program title, Mrs. Richburg is sending a message to potential employers. 
"Some employers don't realize that by getting a mature worker, they find they are getting a better worker." Often, Mrs. Richburg says, employers do not realize until they have older workers in place that they are motivated, willing to learn new things, and possess an unparalleled work ethic.
But, she said, workers frequently need to reinvent themselves. "All we are doing is retooling them," Mrs. Richburg said. 
Marlene Brennan, 58, of White Plains, is such a case. "You can get to a point where you are unemployable," Ms. Brennan says. "My only problem was not upgrading my computer skills." She enrolled in the pilot program of Experience Counts after being laid off from Kmart. "I felt it helped totally in all areas of job skills." Soon after completing the training, Ms. Brennan was hired as a receptionist for Vocational and Educational Services to Individuals With Disabilities, an office of the New York State Department of Education. 
William Yanez, 64, of New Rochelle also finds the program beneficial. He was an electronic technician with his own television repair business, who is now looking for a job where he can use former skills. The program, he says, helped a lot "in relations with people, how to connect, and how to solve problems" that customers have.
Financed by the National Council on the Aging and the New York State Office for the Aging but administered by the county, classes are offered at no cost, and available to people over 55 with proven financial need. The oldest student to date was 89, but participants average about 65. 
Mrs. Richburg hopes that the program, now in its second series of twice-weekly sessions conducted over eight weeks, will continue and expand. Now, 14 older people are enrolled, for a total of 29 participants. 
Older people generally fare worse than other workers even in the best of times, but job placements are up for program participants. 
This year's placements, numbering 17, are close to triple the six of the previous year when a less comprehensive program was offered, Mrs. Richburg said. 
She attributed this to the fact that many companies, eager to save money by eliminating benefits, are offering more part-time work, which younger job seekers are likely to pass over. Many of these jobs, she said, are in customer service, office support, security and health care. The older people in the jobs earn, on average, $12.42 an hour, more than twice the minimum wage, but as high as $26 an hour. 
Although the program's success represents a small proportion of the county's older population, it is in sharp contrast to the overall picture. For instance, the number of older people receiving unemployment benefits jumped in all age categories above 55, from January 2001 to January 2002, according to Sean MacDonald, associate economist with the state Department of Labor in White Plains. She confirmed that there has been an increase of nearly 42 percent in the last year in the number of people in Westchester County over 55 receiving unemployment benefits. 
Susie King, 65, of Mount Vernon ran her own cleaning business for years, but now needs to find a job. 
"When they see 65, they get frightened," Mrs. King said, referring to the corporate world, adding, "I don't know why they think we are going out to pasture. We have a life too, we eat, sleep, pay bills, and enjoy nice things." 
Arlene Kaplan, 56, a New Rochelle resident, worked for 24 years in administration and customer service for an insurance company before her department moved to a different state, and since then has held a number of temporary jobs. Ms. Kaplan wants a full-time job, but she has not kept up with computer developments, like Windows 2000, or even e-mail. 
Dorene Castle of New Rochelle, (who won't reveal her age for fear of age discrimination) has already received positive feedback. Ms. Castle, who was working freelance part time for a small publishing firm in the World Trade Center, is actively interviewing for jobs. She recounts a conversation with an interviewer several weeks ago. "I asked him what systems he used. He asked 'Do you know Word? I said 'yes.' He was pleased that I knew."
While students in Mr. Schachter's class are taking apart computers, brushing up on software programs, and mastering the Internet, another instructor, John Brown, focuses on people. Mr. Brown's "soft skills" class covers all aspects of customer service, from learning proper professional telephone etiquette and how to direct calls and leave a message, to handling irate customers. "Everything has to do with customer service," said Mr. Brown. He is known for his fondness of inspirational quotes from Aristotle and others, like this one from Thomas Dewar: "Minds are like parachutes -- they only function when open."
"I'm selling attitude, big time," Mr. Brown said. 
Important, Mrs. Richburg says, because when people are unemployed, "anger can ooze out." The class has the dual purpose of helping seniors acquire job skills and learn how to better present themselves. 
"What I really want is for them to walk away with self-confidence and a positive attitude," Mr. Brown said. "They are going out there better equipped than before. They have more customer service training than at least 80 to 90 percent of people on the job." 
Ms. Kaplan has been attending job fairs frequently. She senses more competition than ever, particularly since Sept. 11, but remains hopeful. "You can't give up," Ms. Kaplan said. "That's why I'm in this program." 
For more information, contact (914) 813-6432, or log onto www.westchestergov.com/ wplwis.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judith Richburg, above, program administrator for the county Department of Senior Programs and Services. Top left: Arlene Kaplan, left, and Alice Jackson. Left: Joe Sosa, front, among students in a customer service workshop in White Plains. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLDER WORKERS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); AGING (86%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS REPAIR (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (61%) LABOR; OLDER WORKERS 

PERSON: MOHN, TANYA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



602 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3582 words

HEADLINE: A Wider Loan Pool Draws More Sharks 

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
THE subprime mortgage industry, which serves people with bad or blemished credit histories, has burgeoned in the economic boom of the last 10 years, allowing people previously deemed uncreditworthy to buy a home or to raise funds by refinancing their mortgage. But as the industry has expanded, so has its dark seam -- predatory lending.
 And as subprime loans have increased, so, too, have foreclosures. 
 Between 1993 and 1999, according to federal statistics, subprime lending jumped from 1 percent to 6 percent of the national home-purchase mortgage market. In the refinance segment -- flourishing in part because of low interest rates -- subprime lending bounded to 19 percent of the market in 1999 from only 1 percent six years earlier. Over the same period, foreclosures rose by 42 percent. 
In the New York metropolitan area, subprime lending grew from 0.9 percent of the total market in 1993 to 9.8 percent in 1999. In the home-purchase market, the share grew from 0.5 percent to 3 percent, while in the refinance segment, it jumped from 1 percent to 20.3 percent.
"We go to great pains to distinguish the subprime lending industry from predatory lending," said Sarah Ludwig, executive director of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project, a nonprofit fair credit access organization based in Manhattan. "But what's inside the subprime is a strong undertow of unquestionably abusive and deceptive lending that is gouging people, leading to foreclosures and sapping community wealth." 
And it is "particularly African-Americans, often seniors, who are targeted," Ms. Ludwig said.
Predatory mortgages are typically based on a borrower's equity -- the current value of the home -- rather than the homeowner's ability to repay the loan. "The typical borrower is equity rich but cash poor," Ms. Ludwig said, "and, therefore, these loans are unaffordable. People end up jeopardizing their most valuable asset and, sometimes, their only real asset -- the home. And it relegates individuals to an ever-worsening cycle of bad credit and debt."
Christine Nicoll, 34, only wanted a leaky shower floor repaired at the house she bought in Red Hook, Brooklyn, in 1993 -- paid for outright with funds from the settlement she received after she was struck by a car and left with long-term physical and cognitive disabilities. "The contractor talked me into getting the whole bathroom done," she said.
Within months, Ms. Nicoll, who is on welfare, fell behind on the monthly payments for the original $33,000 home-improvement loan, according to her Legal Services lawyer, Pamela Sah -- and then the broker, who had been brought in by the contractor, convinced her to sign a $98,000 refinance mortgage. Ms. Nicoll is now facing foreclosure.
George McCarthy is a housing economist at the Ford Foundation who specializes in keeping track of mortgage-lending trends and practices throughout the country. "Every time you hear people testify at hearings about these practices, it reduces you to tears," Dr. McCarthy said. "You can't believe anyone would behave this way. I wonder how these guys, the predatory lenders, sleep at night."
As executive director of the National Home Equity Mortgage Association, Jeffrey Zeltzer represents a significant segment of the nation's subprime lenders. Mr. Zeltzer fully endorses the mission of his industry and the integrity of, by far, most of those lenders. 
They are serving "a customer who has been underserved or unserved since the beginning of mortgage financing," he said. "That includes people of color, single-parent heads of households, often self-employed people and certainly immigrants, particularly where they have several generations living in the home."
Yet, Mr. Zeltzer concedes, "I have seen it at the hearings where Mrs. Jones negotiates an 8 percent loan and the paperwork comes in at 10 percent. And the loan officer or the broker says, 'Don't worry, I'll take care of that, just sign here.' "
"What I saw, what concerned me," he continued, "was that some consumers, especially less sophisticated consumers, were being taken advantage of by home-improvement contractors -- not all, just some -- some brokers and some lenders who in their zeal to make the sale were, in some cases, misrepresenting the loan's terms."
Whatever its degree, the proliferation of predatory lending is certainly the outgrowth of an explosion in the subprime market -- distinct from the prime or conventional mortgage market, which serves buyers with satisfactory credit histories. And the subprime explosion since the early 1990's has been fueled by both the booming economy and the creation of new tools that allow lenders -- including Wall Street investors -- to rapidly assess the risk posed by a whole new group of potential borrowers.
T HIS came about because of computerized credit scoring," said Keith Gumbinger, a mortgage analyst and vice president at HSH Associates, a financial publishing company in Butler, N.J. Computerized scoring allows a would-be borrower's credit history to be assigned a single number -- between 300 and 900 -- by which a lender or an investor in mortgage-market securities can determine how likely the applicant is to repay the loan.
"Borrowers can be placed anywhere along that scale," Mr. Gumbinger said, "and investors and lenders adjust their rates and fees to compensate for riskier borrowers."
"It's the big mortgage lenders who fund smaller lending firms and street-level mortgage brokers that pressed these subprime products and predatory products onto the market in order to serve new audiences and get more people to owe them money," Mr. Gumbinger said. For a fee, packed into the loan, brokers bring borrowers and lenders together.
Ms. Ludwig agreed: "It's not just your rogue broker or lender on the street. This is very much built into the whole investment machinery so that even some of the large banking institutions, Wall Street investment houses and bond insurers have figured out a way to profit handily from this market segment."
Lenders provide the capital and either hold the loan or, more commonly these days, sell it either to another financial institution that buys up bundles of loans or to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, the federally chartered corporations that buy first mortgages at discounts, insure and then resell them. "Or it's often securitized through the packaging of these loans, which are then sold through Wall Street investment houses," Ms. Ludwig said, "usually to institutional investors. Without the secondary market, without securitization, you wouldn't have this proliferation of subprime and predatory lending."
Citing data collected by the Federal Reserve under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Dr. McCarthy at the Ford Foundation said that in 1993, 6.9 million loans were originated in the combined purchase and refinance markets, of which 126,000 were subprime. By 1999, when a total of 6.8 million loans were made, 774,000 of them were subprime. "As you can see, the prime market had no growth while the subprime market increased by a magnitude of more than 6," Dr. McCarthy said.
"And over the same period," he continued, "while foreclosures in the prime market fell, foreclosures in the subprime market were high enough to push the overall mortgage market to an all-time high for foreclosures." In 1993, there were approximately 401,000 foreclosures in the entire market. By 1999, foreclosures had climbed to 573,000 -- a 42 percent jump. "And that includes a 20 percent drop for foreclosures in the prime market, taken alone," Dr. McCarthy said.
Not surprisingly, it is the uninformed who are most preyed upon. In 1999, Dr. McCarthy said, Freddie Mac analyzed its portfolio and found that one third of its subprime borrowers should have been in the prime market, paying lower interest rates and fees. A similar analysis by Fannie Mae found that half of its subprime portfolio belonged in the prime market.
And there is a racial tinge to predatory lending. In 1999, the Department of Housing and Urban Development conducted a study, "The Unequal Burden: Income and Racial Disparities in Subprime Lending," which found that upper-income African-American homeowners across the nation were twice as likely to hold subprime loans than low-income white homeowners; and that in the New York area, high-income African-Americans were four times as likely as low-income whites to have subprime loans. Nationally, high income was defined as $60,240 or more for a family of four; in the New York area, it was $67,440 or more.
Josh Zinner is coordinator of the Foreclosure Prevention Project at South Brooklyn Legal Services, an agency that provides legal assistance to poor people involved in civil cases. "There's two types of mortgage fraud going on," he said -- not surprisingly, one involving home-purchase loans, the other regarding refinancing.
In the home-purchase category it is, particularly, first-time buyers seeking loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration who are targeted. "In these cases, real estate brokers who are acting as kind of one-stop shops will solicit low- or moderate-income people to purchase homes," Mr. Zinner said. Those brokers buy properties that are in poor condition for low prices, often at foreclosure auctions, and "flip" them at a higher price.
T HE reason they are called one-stop shops is because they also have appraisers working for them who go out and over-appraise the properties intentionally," Mr. Zinner said. "Then they slap a coat of paint on to cover the defects, represent to the buyer that the house is in good shape and tell the buyer they don't need an inspection."
"They will provide an attorney for the buyer at the closing -- another part of the one-stop shop -- and they will qualify the buyer, often falsifying that buyer's income for an F.H.A.-backed loan." Such falsified documentation -- attesting to income from, perhaps, baby-sitting or nonexistent tenants -- makes the borrower's income look more substantial, the loan more qualifiable.
"Let's say the property is worth $150,000," Mr. Zinner said. "The loan won't be for that amount; it will be for the over-appraised amount, say $225,000. So the borrower will end up with a property that's in lousy shape, often with significant structural defects, and the buyer will have an unaffordable mortgage that covers far more than the value of the property."
"When the buyer inevitably goes into default because they can't afford the payments, or else they can't afford a second loan they took out to do the repairs," Mr. Zinner continued, "then the lender will foreclose. And after the sale the lender will get paid back through the F.H.A. insurance for the full value of the over-appraisal."
The F.H.A. is a division of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. A spokesman for HUD said that it is increasing efforts to monitor subprime loans and that where it finds unscrupulously high default rates the lenders will be barred from HUD programs.
In April 1999, Pree Parker and his wife, Rachel Dildy, bought a two-story frame house on Grant Avenue in Cypress Hills, Brooklyn, from Better Homes Depot for $257,000, with Madison Home Equities brought in by Better Homes as the lender. Later, a new appraiser -- hired by South Brooklyn Legal Services when the couple sought to avoid foreclosure -- placed the home's value at only $180,000.
"I didn't know much about buying a home," Mr. Parker, 40, a copying machine operator, said. "Better Homes provides you with the lawyer, the appraiser -- which, if I knew what I know now, I would have gotten my own appraiser."
Eric Fessler, the president of Better Homes Depot, said the original appraisal had been agreed upon by two separate appraisers, one of them "an approved Federal Housing Agency appraiser."
The house had no interior floors or walls when the Parkers first saw it. Better Homes Depot hired contractors to rebuild it. Soon after the couple and their six children moved in, structural problems surfaced.
"Holes in the roof," Mr. Parker said. "I have to redo the ceiling. I've had seven floods in the basement, human feces; it was past my knees."
Mr. Fessler said that the house was renovated "utilizing licensed electricians and contractors" and that "the Parkers had 60 days between contract and closing to inspect the premises."
Pamela Sah, the Legal Services lawyer who represents Ms. Nicoll, the disabled woman facing foreclosure in Red Hook, also represents the Parkers. Ms. Sah said the couple was not informed that they could obtain an inspection prior to the closing. 
Mr. Fessler said that claim "is belied by the forms that were signed by Mr. Parker two months prior to closing." Ms. Sah says Mr. Parker signed them at the closing.
At the closing, Mr. Parker said, "they had like 500 pieces of paper for me to sign. I hadn't seen them before."
Ms. Sah said her clients were told they were getting a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage, but at the closing were given an adjustable-rate mortgage. Mr. Fessler said the mortgage the Parkers "entered into had a one-year adjustable rate with a cap of 5 percentage points" -- meaning that during the first year the rate was 5.5 percent, with the possibility of rising by another 5 percentage points over its term.
The Parkers are hurting. After the first year, their payments rose by $200 a month to $1,700 -- a squeeze with six children and a combined income of $50,000. They are facing foreclosure. And there is the emotional toll. "Every time it rains and I'm at the job I feel sad because I know something's wrong at the house," Mr. Parker said. "It turned into the American nightmare."
In 2000, the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs filed suit against Better Homes Depot, saying that "the defendants have repeatedly committed deceptive trade practices against home buyers in violation of the New York City Consumer Protection Law." More specifically, the suit charged that the company "sold homes at greatly inflated prices," that it "discouraged buyers from exercising their right to retain an attorney" and that renovations promised by the company were "carried out in a shoddy and incomplete manner." 
In its response, Better Homes denied each of the city's allegations of deceptive practices. The suit, which does not include the Parkers' situation, is pending in State Supreme Court.
THE most prevalent predatory practice is the refinance loan, for which "the classic M.O.," Mr. Zinner said, "is where brokers or contractors, acting essentially as bird dogs for lenders, go door to door in low-income neighborhoods."
Their target, he said, "is the working poor -- someone who bought the property cheap, or their family bought way back in the 50's, 60's, and now property values have gone up; but the person is no longer working, is on a fixed income."
The property may need repairs because the owner has not been able to afford them. "People may need a new roof, for example, but other stuff will appear on the contract -- bathrooms redone, railings on stairways, siding," Mr. Zinner said. "That stuff is added on." The contracts are used to leverage people into high-cost loans.
"At that stage, the broker takes over, refers the loan to a lender, adds broker's fees onto the loan," Mr. Zinner said. "These fees often bear little relation to the actual value of services provided." The fees are called points, with each point representing one percent of the entire loan.
Often, refinance loans are packed with unsecured debt.
"Debt consolidation can benefit the borrower who is making informed decisions," Ms. Ludwig said. "But who we see targeted is the vulnerable senior, the widow living on Social Security who has outstanding credit-card debt at a relatively high interest rate." (Credit card companies are prohibited from collecting against Social Security income.)
And while the interest rate may be lower when credit-card debt is consolidated into a mortgage, "that woman is never going to lose her home if she fails to pay her credit-card debt," Ms. Ludwig said. "Once she consolidates it into the mortgage, however, her home is at stake because now the collateral is her home." 
And what the unsophisticated borrower also doesn't know, Ms. Ludwig added, "is that this is yet another way for the broker to pad the loan and jack up the payments."
Often, loan terms that are neutral or even beneficial in the prime lending market become predatory in the subprime market. Balloon payments, for example, may be appropriate for a co-op that plans to restructure its underlying mortgage after a certain period, or for the home buyer who expects to move within a few years. Under balloon payments, a lower interest rate is paid for, perhaps, three or five years, and then the entire principal comes due.
In a predatory scenario, "while a balloon loan might look affordable at first because monthly payments tend to be low," Ms. Ludwig said, "many borrowers come forward after they have been served with a foreclosure notice and they had no idea that there was a balloon provision in their loan."
"And that is used by brokers and lenders to insure that the homeowner will need to refinance, yet again, to avoid foreclosure," she said, "while the broker and lender hit the cash register again, collecting more points, more fees, perhaps a prepayment penalty, stripping out more equity and putting the borrower in a new loan that yet again does not benefit -- typically -- her."
Another predatory practice is called default interest -- a rate increase that kicks in if a borrower misses a certain number of payments. "It's pretty much a nail in the coffin," Ms. Ludwig said. "If the person can't make the higher payments, the lender files for foreclosure and can get title to the house." In gentrifying neighborhoods, that can be particularly profitable.
The proliferation of predatory lending has not escaped official attention.
In October 2000, the New York State Banking Department issued regulations defining a loan as "high cost" -- though not predatory -- if its rate is 8 percentage points above the prevailing yield on Treasury bonds or if the points and fees exceed 5 percent of the loan amount. It is legal for lenders to originate mortgages above those thresholds, but, according to the regulations, with certain prohibitions, including: charging default interest, paying a home-improvement contractor directly from the proceeds of the loan and charging fees for services not performed.
Some legislators and many fair-credit advocates contend, however, that there are loopholes in the Banking Department regulations. For example, the regulations prohibit "unaffordable loans," except "under compelling circumstances." 
Ms. Ludwig said, "It should be a basic tenet of all sound lending that the loan must be affordable to the borrower."
LAST July, the Assembly passed a bill -- sponsored by Aurelia Greene, a Bronx Democrat and chairwoman of the Assembly Banks Committee -- that would close many of the loopholes. This past Monday, the State Senate Banks Committee held hearings on the bill, which would, among other things:
*Require that borrowers of high-cost loans, as defined by the law, be advised by a HUD-certified mortgage counselor before the loan is executed.
*Prohibit balloon payments and prepayment penalties for high-cost loans.
*Prohibit a lender who is refinancing a loan for the same borrower from charging new fees.
*Allow homeowners to defend themselves against foreclosure if they can prove that the loan was predatory, as defined by the law.
Testifying at Monday's hearing, Michael P. Smith, the president of the New York State Bankers Association, which represents more than 100 commercial banks across the state, said he was "pleased to reaffirm our unwavering opposition to predatory lending practices."
At the same time, Mr. Smith said: "It is critical that while seeking to stop abusive predatory practices, we do not throw the baby out with the bath water. That is, we must be careful not to impose restrictions on legitimate lenders that inadvertently deny access to those very consumers we are seeking to protect."
Mr. Smith said his association was particularly troubled that the thresholds the bill establishes to define high-cost loans -- 5 percentage points above the prevailing Treasury bond rate, and points and fees that exceed 5 percent of the loan amount -- "are so low as to have the effect of restricting credit to worthy borrowers." He also said his members were "concerned that once you are defined as a high-cost lender, there are practices that are either restricted or prohibited -- such as balloon payments and the financing of points and fees -- which could be beneficial to the borrower."
The day after the hearing, the chairman of the Banks Committee, Senator Hugh T. Farley, Republican of Schenectady, said, "The bill will pass."
Asked if it would remain in its present form, Senator Farley said: "It's very difficult for me to say what's going to be changed because we're still reviewing the testimony. We're going to negotiate; I've got to get it through both houses."
"There are some things that the financial community really objected to," the senator continued. "Realtors expressed concern that it would have a chilling effect on the market." More specifically, he said, "We're hoping that the threshold" -- for defining a high-cost loan -- "will be higher than what is currently in the bill." 
"The basic thing is that we want to stop predatory lending," he said, "but we don't want to eliminate credit for people who really need it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Christine Nicoll and Pamela Sah at Ms. Nicoll's home in Red Hook, Brooklyn; right, Sarah Ludwig at a State Senate hearing. (Associated Press); (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 6); Pree Parker in his flood-prone basement. (Edwine Seymour for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart lists the percentage of subprime mortgages ending in foreclosure since 1999 in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York. (pg. 6) Map of New York shows minority population and subprime refinancing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (95%); PREDATORY LENDING (91%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (91%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); CREDIT REGULATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITIES (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (68%); HOME PRICES (63%) HOUSING; BLACKS; DISCRIMINATION; MORTGAGES; MINORITIES (US); CREDIT; INCOME 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



603 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Susan Jacobs, Anders Matzen

 BODY:
Susan Jacobs, an anthropologist, and Anders Matzen, an economist, were married yesterday at the Fust Library in Boca Grande, Fla. Judge W. Wayne Woodard of the Charlotte County Court in Punta Gorda, Fla., officiated. 
 The bride, 35, will take her husband's name. She works in the social development department of the World Bank, and the bridegroom, 32, works at the International Monetary Fund, both in Washington. 
 The bride graduated magna cum laude from Duke and received a master's degree in anthropolgy from McGill University in Montreal. She is the daughter of Sandra and Eugene Jacobs of Boca Grande. Her father retired as a vice president and securities broker in Jenkintown, Pa., for Advest, investment advisers. Her mother is a travel writer.
The bridegroom graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in economics from the University of Copenhagen and received a master's degree in international political economy from the University of Warwick in England. He is a son of Sys Matzen and Dr. Peter Matzen of Copenhagen. The bridegroom's mother is an occupational therapist for Horsholm, a city in Denmark. His father is a chief gastroenterologist for Copenhagen and also has a practice there.
Ms. Jacobs and Mr. Matzen met in March 2000 at a party given in Washington by mutual friends. "Another friend had just broken up with her boyfriend, and we went to the party with the goal of finding her a date," Ms. Jacobs said.
Mr. Matzen was the prime candidate for that role. Later that evening, he and the woman, along with Ms. Jacobs and a friend of Mr. Matzen's, went dancing. But instead of drawing closer to the woman he had been earmarked for, he found himself attracted by Ms. Jacobs's humor and intelligence.
"I was dancing with Sue and was having a lot of fun," he said. They exchanged cards at the end of the evening, and within days he sent her an e-mail message inviting her to dinner. He warned during the meal that he was in the United States for only two years. So, he said, "You shouldn't get your hopes too high." Ms. Jacobs replied, "Don't worry, I wasn't planning on more than three weeks anyway."
In fact, Ms. Jacobs, whose professional life had been going very well, had been looking to enrich her social life. Now she had Mr. Matzen in her sights. 
"He thought it was all innocent, but it was not," Ms. Jacobs said mischievously. "He didn't hear the 'click click' of the safety coming off." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (67%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: JACOBS, SUSAN (SUSAN MATZEN); MATZEN, ANDERS 

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (87%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (57%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (87%); CANADA (57%); ENGLAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



604 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Lauren Tombacher, Adam Pechter

 BODY:
Lauren Nell Tombacher, a teacher, and Adam Michael Pechter, a New Jersey state official, were married last evening at the Grand Summit Hotel in Summit, N.J. Rabbi Stuart Weinberg Gershon performed the ceremony.
 Mrs. 
Pechter, 28, teaches fifth grade at the Shull School in Perth Amboy. She graduated cum laude from the State University at Albany. 
 The bride's father, Dr. Leon Tombacher of New York, a dentist, practices at Laser Dental Care in New York. Her mother, Karen Tombacher of West New York, N.J., was until last month the senior vice president for human resources at the Amerex Group, a clothing distributor in New York. The bride is the stepdaughter of Joseph Luksch.
Mr. Pechter, 31, is the chief operating officer of the New Jersey Commerce and Economic Growth Commission in Trenton and a member of the education cabinet of Gov. James E. McGreevey. He was the policy director for the governor's election campaign last year. He graduated from Yale and received a law degree from Vanderbilt University. 
His mother, Kayla Pechter of New Providence, N.J., is a nurse practitioner at the Jersey City Medical Center. His father, Richard Pechter of Summit, retired as the chairman for financial services at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, the investment bank in New York, and now teaches mathematics at Liberty High School in Jersey City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); DENTISTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); NURSES & NURSING (66%); GOVERNORS (58%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

PERSON: TOMBACHER, LAUREN NELL (LAUREN NELL PECHTER); PECHTER, ADAM MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



605 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Lockbox or Not, Social Security's Ills Grow

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
BRACE yourselves. If you receive Social Security benefits or assume that you will one day -- Republicans and Democrats are about to barrage you anew with claims, counterclaims, promises and warnings about the fate of the retirement system.
 They will have a common theme: that the other side is seeking to embark the nation on a path that will leave the government unable to meet its obligations to the elderly. 
 The budget surplus is gone, and with it Al Gore's lockbox. But the underlying economic and demographic problems that have cast doubt on Social Security's long-term financial soundness are unchanged. So is the reality that beating up Republicans over the retirement system is still the best political weapon in the Democratic arsenal. 
Democrats are casting this year's budget fight in Congress as a test of which party can do more to wean the government off of using excess Social Security revenue to pay for general programs.
As one way of making their point, Democrats are preparing to assail the administration for having to request an increase in the legal limit on the national debt, a step they say proves that the tax cut last year was fiscally irresponsible.
In the wake of the Enron collapse -- and looking for an issue to carry into the Congressional elections this fall -- Democrats are trying to focus attention again on the push by Mr. Bush and many conservatives to let workers invest a portion of their Social Security taxes in the stock market.
The debate is sure to be as confusing as it is ugly. Following is a voter's guide to the issue.
What's really going on with Social Security costs?
The population is getting older. When the 76 million baby boomers start retiring in earnest at the end of this decade, the cost of paying retirement benefits will soar.
As perhaps the most successful and popular government program of all time, the effects on Social Security have dominated political discourse in recent years. But the problem is just as bad, if not worse, for Medicare, the health insurance system for retirees.
Dan L. Crippen, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, told the Senate Finance Committee this month that the cost of paying Medicare benefits would grow to 5.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2030 from 2.3 percent today, reflecting both the demographic shift and the rising cost of health care. Medicare and Social Security together would rise to nearly 12 percent of G.D.P. in 2030 from just over 6 percent today. That would be more than half the total federal budget.
In Social Security's case, the tax levied on workers and employers to pay benefits will not be nearly enough to cover the bill.
So what does any of this have to do with this year's budget or the national debt?
Under President Bill Clinton, the Democrats adopted the view that the best way to prepare for the demographic tidal wave was to use the budget surplus to pay down the national debt. The idea was that by leaving the government debt-free by 2012, Washington would have more flexibility to borrow money again over the next few decades to help cover benefits.
Republicans bought into the idea. The two parties agreed on a target with tremendous symbolism but no particular economic meaning: they would reduce the debt each year by at least the amount of the temporary surplus in Social Security revenue. Thus was born the lockbox.
But after Mr. Bush's tax cut and the recession, the non-Social Security budget surplus disappeared, leaving the government again partly dependent on Social Security revenue.
The economic effect is less debt reduction. The political effect has been a battle royal over what's to blame. The Democrats say the tax cut. The Republicans say the combination of war and recession.
Democrats are pushing a budget plan in the Senate that they say will end the practice of spending the Social Security surplus by 2008. Republicans say their plan is smoke and mirrors. They are pushing their own plan through the House that they say sets the stage for dealing with the problem by making the country militarily and economically secure.
But what are the two parties actually doing to address the underlying problem?
So far, not much. No one can change the demographic outlook. The Republican approach of adding personal investment accounts to the program would not by itself solve the financial shortfall, and in some ways would make it worse. The Democratic plan amounts to hoping for a return of the budget surplus.
But don't expect either side to be contrite between now and Election Day.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the projected Social Security assets at end of the year. (Source: Social Security Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (88%); TAX LAW (88%); AGING (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); US PRESIDENTS (60%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIVATIZATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



606 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: SILICON ALLEY; 
A Once-Evocative Name Falls Victim To the Bursting of the High-Tech Bubble

BYLINE:  By DENNY LEE 

 BODY:
It's now official. Silicon Alley, the district that presided over a thousand dot-com pies in the sky, is dead.
 This month, the giant billboard that proclaimed "DoubleClick Welcomes You to Silicon Alley" and long served as the area's unofficial gateway, was removed from its rooftop at 22nd Street and Broadway. 
 "We are putting our ad dollars into more strategic media allocations," explained a spokesman for DoubleClick, a well-known online advertising company.
Requiems for the short-lived neighborhood were hard to avoid. 
"It's obviously the end of an era," said Ben Silverman, 27, a former executive at Bla-Bla.com who now runs an Internet news site, Dotcom Scoop, from his apartment in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
Others were exuberant. "What a great thing!" said Bill Lessard, a co-author of "Netslaves: True Tales of Working the Web" (McGraw-Hill Professional Publishing, 2000).
"To me, it represents that the stupidity is finally over."
The DoubleClick welcome mat went up in early 1998, just as the company went public and New York dot-coms were struggling to compete with Silicon Valley in California. There were also half a dozen "silicon alleys" around at the time, in London, San Francisco, Boston and elsewhere.
"But here in New York, we defined it and made it stick," said Jason McCabe Calacanis, former publisher of The Silicon Alley Reporter, which ran a map of the new district in its inaugural issue.
The heart of the alley extended roughly from the Flatiron Building on 23rd Street to Union Square, a corridor of industrial lofts that saw its rents bubble over, as old sewing stations were replaced by Herman Miller work pods. 
Today, the words "Silicon Alley" have disappeared from Mr. Calacanis's magazine, which is now called Venture Reporter. A computer search of New York publications found only 32 references to "Silicon Alley" so far this year, compared with 168 for the same period in 2001 and 144 in 2000. And, in contrast to the past, the phrase is virtually absent from the real estate listings.
"I can't remember the last time I heard the term used," said Mark Mandell, a commercial broker at Cushman & Wakefield, who once had clients asking for a street named Silicon Alley. "It's lost its cachet completely."
Some people still defend the term. "I regard Silicon Alley as the tristate area," said Steve Brotman of Silicon Alley Venture Partners, an investment firm in the garment district. "It's shorthand for saying technology in New York."
Alice O'Rourke, executive director of the New York New Media Association, an organization whose membership has declined to 6,300 from 8,200 two years ago, is optimistic. To her, the removal of the billboard "suggests a new beginning."
But in some circles the term "Silicon Alley" is already mud. Michael LeFort, president of Mammal Fish, an Internet company, recalled a recent meeting at which a client had dismissed his Web design as "too Silicon Alley." DENNY LEE

GRAPHIC: Photo: A billboard for DoubleClick at 22nd Street and Broadway long served as the unofficial gateway to Silicon Alley. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (76%); PUBLISHING (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); WRITERS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (67%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: DOUBLECLICK INC (91%); MCGRAW-HILL PROFESSIONAL PUBLISHING GROUP (69%); SILICON ALLEY VENTURE PARTNERS LLC (55%); HERMAN MILLER INC (53%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DOUBLECLICK INC 

TICKER: MLHR (NASDAQ) (53%); MHR (FRA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (53%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (53%); SIC2521 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE (53%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (53%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%)

PERSON: BEN SILVERMAN (56%) LEE, DENNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



607 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
The Market Is Bracing for a Telltale Earnings Season

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
FIRST-QUARTER corporate earnings reports start appearing next month, and if the results disappoint, the stock market will be in for a tumble.
Company guidance for the second quarter and the rest of the year is also crucial and will be scrutinized like entrails.
 The attention is warranted, because the reports are the first company data since the economic outlook for 2002 was turned on its head. Instead of being in the last quarter of a recession, the economy is now in recovery, a fact reflected in recent economic data and confirmed by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. 
 Chris Wolfe, United States equity strategist at J. P. Morgan's Private Bank, said, "Failure to deliver on earnings in this environment means that stock prices have nowhere to go but down." 
That is not to say that earnings will disappoint, but that they are particularly important because the stock market, at its current ratio of price to earnings, is much overvalued. According to J. P. Morgan, the P/E ratio of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, using operating earnings, was 44 at the end of last year. That was the highest since the late 1940's and three times the average since then. The only recent brush with such high valuations came in the spring and summer of 1999, not long before the stock market buckled in March 2000.
A dose of strong earnings is needed to bring this price-to-earnings barometer back down to more livable levels.
As of now, earnings forecasts for the first quarter gathered by Thomson Financial/First Call may not offer that reassurance. Charles L. Hill, director of research at First Call, said he expected earnings for the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to decline 12 percent in the first quarter, compared with a year earlier.
But Mr. Hill does see some encouraging signs. The percentage of positive earnings pre-announcements and the percentage of positive earnings forecast revisions by company analysts have been climbing recently. And while the outlook for the second quarter is still fuzzy, he expects earnings to inch up 2 percent to 3 percent, which would make it the first quarterly increase after five declines.
J. P. Morgan is upbeat about the profits outlook. In forecasting a 20 percent surge for the year in overall corporate profits based on the gross domestic product, the firm is banking on the traditional profit jump associated with economic recovery. With that recovery coming sooner than expected, so will the rise in profits.
A slide in unit labor costs is expected to play a larger-than-usual role in helping companies raise profit margins as sales volume picks up and productivity remains strong. Unit labor costs fell at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter last year.
Still, Bruce Kasman and Robert Mellman, the economists who conducted the profits analysis for J.P. Morgan, said the earnings increase over the next four quarters would be less than the average first-year rebound during the last five economic expansions. The biggest were the 64 percent surge after the 1973-75 recession and the 56 percent increase that began at the end of 1982. After the 1990-91 recession, profits rose just 6 percent in the first year. Mr. Wolfe is forecasting a climb of 15 to 18 percent in profits for the S.& P. 500.
A SURGE in earnings this year does not mean that the trend will continue. "Although the economy will experience a cyclical bounce, it is not positioned for a sustained upturn in profit margins," Mr. Kasman and Mr. Mellman wrote in their report. "Pricing power remains limited in an environment of global excess capacity and a strong dollar. And without the benefits of the labor market slack and falling interest rates present in the early 1990's, it is unlikely that costs can be compressed on an ongoing basis."
Worrisome, too, is the quality of the rising earnings. The accounting problems highlighted by the Enron scandal may make some companies more careful about pushing the profits envelope. But investors are likely to be skeptical for some time. So big profit numbers might not produce the stock rallies that they used to.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Sky High"The price-to-earnings ratio of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has soared recently as profits have sagged. Graph shows ratio based on operating earnings and stock prices through the end of last year, calculated monthly from the 50's to the 90's. (Source: J. P. Morgan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); STATISTICS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); BONDS (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



608 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Craig T. Callahan and Derek N. Rollingson; 
Icon Financial Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
IN choosing stocks for the $58 million Icon Financial fund, Craig T. Callahan and Derek N. Rollingson don't rely on company visits, meetings with management or detailed studies of a company's competitive advantages.
 Instead, they base their decisions on a quantitative analysis of a stock's value, inspired by Benjamin Graham, the co-author, with David L. Dodd, of "Security Analysis," the 1934 classic text for value investors. 
 "We believe that markets have themes, with industry leadership typically lasting one or two years," Mr. Callahan said from his office in Greenwood Village, Colo., a Denver suburb. The managers analyze the relative value of financial-services industries, selling stocks in overpriced ones and buying in underpriced ones, he said. 
The fund returned 13.8 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, versus 6.2 percent for its peer group of financial funds and a 2.7 percent decline in the Standard & Poor's 500, according to Morningstar. It returned 18.5 percent in the last 12 months, versus 14.5 percent for its group and 4.2 percent for the S.& P. 500.
Mr. Callahan, 51, is the lead manager of the fund and the chief investment officer of the Meridian Investment Management Corporation, the fund's adviser. Meridian manages more than $1 billion for individuals and institutions. Mr. Rollingson, 29, is assistant portfolio manager. 
Looking among 200 to 300 financial services companies of all sizes in the United States, the managers use an industry rotation strategy to choose the fund's 30 to 40 stocks. It typically own stocks in five or six of the nine financial services industries in the S.& P. Super Composite 1500 index.
To pick the financial industries in which to concentrate, the managers use a valuation system based on the "central value equation" devised by Mr. Graham, taking into account historical earnings, projected five-year earnings and stock price volatility. 
The model, run daily, creates a per-share intrinsic value for every company in each industry. Dividing the intrinsic value by the company's market price and then averaging the results for each industry yield what the managers call the industry's value-to-price ratio. Over all, this ratio is 1.2 for the portfolio companies, meaning that for every $1 invested, the managers believe they are receiving $1.20 in value.
The fund's biggest stake, at 39 percent of assets, is in diversified financial services companies, mainly brokerages and money managers. "When people feared a slowing economy last fall, these stocks became bargains," Mr. Callahan said, "and they have a big potential to rebound as the economy improves."
Its next biggest stake, at 16 percent, is in property and casualty insurers. When the market reopened after Sept. 11, insurers' stocks tumbled. "We saw them as great bargains then, and we still think they're underpriced," he said.
To pick companies in the selected industries, the managers screen them for low debt levels and high liquidity. "We try to protect against companies that won't participate in the industry move because of risks unique to themselves," Mr. Callahan said.
They pore over income statements and balance sheets, looking for evidence that a company is run efficiently. Among brokerage firms, they want steady or improving profit margins; among banks, a big difference in what they pay out and what they receive on loans. 
They sell stocks in financial industries that fall to the bottom 10 percent of value-to-price rankings among the 123 industries in the S.& P. Super Composite.
 THE managers like Eaton Vance, the investment company in Boston. The fund started buying shares in December 2000, paying an average of $32.34; they now trade at $38.15. The company is flush with cash, Mr. Rollingson said, and its profit margin is now 39.25 percent.
Among property and casualty insurers, they like MGIC Investment of Milwaukee, a mortgage insurer. The company's operating profit has increased every year the last 10 years. The fund first bought shares in January 2001, at $66.50, on average; they are now at $67.40. 
Last April, the fund started buying shares of the Investment Technology Group, a New York City company that provides equity trading services and transaction research to institutional investors and brokers. It has a solid balance sheet and high profit margins and no long-term debt, Mr. Rollingson said. The fund paid an average of $34.25 for the shares, which now trade at $51.62.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the Icon Financial fund, Craig T. Callahan, right, and Derek N. Rollingson use calculations inspired by Benjamin Graham, a father of value investing. The portfolio contains 30 to 40 financial services stocks. (Steve Peterson for The New York Times) Chart: "Icon Financial"Category: FinancialNet assets: $58 millionInception: August 1997Managers: Craig T. Callahan since inception and Derek N. Rollingson since March 2000Minimum purchase: $1,000 ($1,000 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 174%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 13.8%Category average: 6.2% Sector breakdown Diversified financial services: 39%Other: 12%Property and casualty insurers: 16%Banks: 16%Consumer finance: 10%Life and health insurers: 7% Fees Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.41% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

ORGANIZATION: ICON FINANCIAL FUND 

PERSON: CALLAHAN, CRAIG T; ROLLINGSON, DEREK N; GOULD, CAROLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (77%) COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



609 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
It's Time for Investors to Start Acting Like Owners

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
YOU know that investors have left La-La Land when a titan like General Electric is taken to the woodshed by one of them. 
 Last Wednesday, William H. Gross, manager of the world's largest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management, castigated G.E., saying it was not disclosing enough about its operations or financing needs to bond investors. Mr. Gross's comments on Pimco's Web site followed G.E.'s issuance of $11 billion in debt and filing of a $50 billion shelf offering, letting it come to market for that money any time. 
 "I want companies to face up to their owners and yes -- their creditors," Mr. Gross stated. "Pimco will own no G.E. commercial paper in the foreseeable future." 
Interesting that it took a bond guy to break up the lovefest between G.E. and investors. Bondholders usually bank their interest payments quietly, watch closely for signs of deteriorating balance sheets and vote with their feet, not their mouths.
But company balance sheets, which bond investors care about, have become loaded with debt in recent years. So it is not surprising that Mr. Gross spoke out. He is to be commended for it.
It is about time investors start making demands of their companies. After all, the transfer of wealth from companies' shareholders to their executives in recent years has been nothing short of immense. Investors have been amazingly silent as the money changed hands. 
Shamefully willing to let executives do whatever they wanted during the bull market, shareholders have stood happily by even when their stakes have been wildly diluted. Consider the option grants given to executives. According to a recent report by Smithers & Company, an economic consulting firm in London, the value of options granted at the 325 largest companies in the United States equaled almost 20 percent of their pretax profits in 2000, the latest year for which data is available.
Stockholders have also let companies make hare-brained acquisitions that produced significant writedowns almost immediately. 
John C. Bogle, founder of the Vanguard Group, says stockholders have been part of a happy conspiracy. Made up of corporate executives, auditors, Wall Street bankers, analysts and shareholders, the conspiracy's shared goal has been a rising stock price. 
Unfortunately, as Enron investors learned, if the rising stock price is built on something other than the rising value of the company's cash flows, they are vulnerable. 
G.E. seems stunned to be the subject of investor doubts. On Friday, Gary Sheffer, G.E.'s spokesman, responded testily when asked why G.E. does not hold conference calls to answer investor questions when it announces quarterly earnings and why the company, one of the nation's biggest issuers of corporate debt, does not provide balance sheets to investors in its earnings releases. 
"We felt we communicated with people interested in following the company pretty well," Mr. Sheffer said. "We have more than 200 analyst meetings a year and are available to answer questions any time."
Later, Mr. Sheffer called back to say that beginning with the company's second-quarter earnings report, G.E. would sponsor conference calls with investors and provide balance sheets in earnings releases. 
Shareholders of the world, take note: Start acting like the owners you are. Make demands of managers, keep a watch on their activities, rein in their obscene pay packages. Corporate executives are your hired hands, after all, but you've let them get pretty uppity in recent years. It's time to show them who's boss.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Call for Accounting" shows the trading in General Electric since January 2002. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (76%); CASH FLOW (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMMERCIAL PAPER; CREDIT 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (58%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (52%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: BILL GROSS (91%) GROSS, WILLIAM H; MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



610 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: BOOK VALUE; 
Which Way China? A Collision of Views

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN 

 BODY:
AS the bureau chief in Beijing for United Press International in 1981 and 1982, I remember the joking among expatriates about the two kinds of foreigners in China. There were those who became teachers and translators and fell in love with the Chinese. They lost all detachment, all perspective. But then there were the foreigners who never really connected to the culture or the language. They might have been present in the Middle Kingdom, but they didn't even try to get the Chinese reality.
 Unfortunately, little has changed over the course of two decades of American-Chinese engagement, judging from two of the latest books about China to be published in the United States -- "China Dawn: The Story of a Technology and Business Revolution" (HarperBusiness, $26.95), by David Sheff, and "The China Dream: The Quest for the Last Great Untapped Market on Earth" (Atlantic Monthly Press, $27), by Joe Studwell. 
 Despite the similarity in titles, the books take diametrically opposed views of what is happening in China. Mr. Sheff, a writer based in San Francisco for Wired, Playboy and Yahoo Internet Life, became infatuated with a group of Chinese Internet entrepreneurs who founded companies like Sina.com, China Netcom and AsiaInfo. He followed their movements across the Pacific Ocean for three years, became an adviser to one company and even invested in it. By any standard of American business journalism, he has a conflict of interest. Mr. Sheff became way too close to his subjects, and he acknowledges it. "I am not objective about my subjects or their work," he writes.
Small wonder that he writes such flattering prose about these young entrepreneurs, whose lives were shaped by the Cultural Revolution and the Tiananmen Square crackdown as much as by finishing their educations in the United States. 
They are helping China roll out high-speed Internet access in a way that Mr. Sheff says just might allow China to leapfrog the West technologically. His entrepreneurs see the Internet as forcing sweeping change, indeed a new revolution, in their homeland. "A new China will emerge," the author writes, apparently with a straight face. How many hundreds of times has a new China been proclaimed? It may be that the Internet will have huge impact, but the reader has to decide if Mr. Sheff is engaged in real arm's-length reportage and analysis, or if he is engaged in promotional writing.
At the opposite end of the spectrum, Mr. Studwell spent 10 years in China, working for a time for The Economist and The Economist Intelligence Unit, its business information arm. Yet there is little evidence in the book that he had sustained contact with Chinese people. Hasn't he seen the explosion of wealth in Shanghai or Shenzhen or Beijing? Hasn't he seen how the clothes the Chinese wear have changed over the years from drab Mao suits to business suits and brightly colored dresses?
Instead, in a strangely distant statistical and ideological argument, he writes that the Chinese economy is doomed to collapse and that nearly all foreign multinationals that have invested there were duped. Western executives who have pumped tens of billions of dollars into the country were merely living out "their China fantasies," Mr. Studwell writes. Moreover, China's attempt to blend some Western economic lessons into Chinese-style socialism is "nonsense," he declares.
Mr. Studwell makes some valid points about the mistakes foreigners have made in China and portrays accurately a political and economic system that is far from perfect. But it seems rash for him to dismiss the system, under which 1.3 billion people live and work, as nonsense. Dripping with condescension, he writes that "the biggest myth about China in the 1990's was that the country ceased to be socialist." Few serious China-watchers ever believed that the Chinese had abandoned their version of socialism. Not then. Not now.
In Mr. Studwell's view, the Chinese will never emerge economically unless they deregulate and debureaucratize their system, and quickly. It seems Mr. Studwell wants the Chinese to go the big bang route to creating instant Western-style democratic capitalism. Many China experts would challenge that approach, particularly in view of how spectacularly the Soviet Union failed in its big bang economic transformation. His 58 pages of often tedious footnotes don't do much to lend his argument objectivity or balance.
Despite its failings, Mr. Sheff's book is by far the better of the two. Yes, there is the irritating way he starts by describing how he went surfing with Bo Feng, a young Chinese venture capitalist who was one of the first to attract Western money to China's Internet start-ups, and who is one of the principals of Mr. Sheff's book. Maybe surfing passes as deep truth for the Wired audience, but not for everyone. Mr. Sheff also makes errors like misstating the meaning of the term "pinyin." It refers to the system of transliterating Chinese characters, not to the characters themselves.
But at least Mr. Sheff has tasted the reality of what is happening in Beijing's Zhongguancun, the Chinese capital's version of Silicon Valley. That does yield some interesting insights. As this generation of entrepreneurs tries to deploy the Internet, a major handicap is the absence of management expertise. Many don't understand the need to define their market, define the competition and actually make money within a finite period. It's noteworthy that the preponderance of these sorts of skills among Chinese entrepreneurs comes from their educations at American universities and through their contacts with American investors.
"CHINA DAWN" also sheds light on the riddle of the Chinese government's attitude toward the Internet. The government wants entrepreneurs to expand their Internet businesses, the private and state-backed variety, so that China's digital economy can grow. In that sense, the Communist Party and the entrepreneurs are united in their desire to use the Internet as a way to jump past economic rivals like the United States. It's true that China has more, newer fiber-optic networks than the United States because American companies are still making money from their older networks and are loath to walk away from them.
The Chinese government occasionally signals that it doesn't want foreign money involved in China's Internet because of its concern about losing control of sensitive assets. Yet entrepreneurs like Edward Tian, 39, who got his doctorate at Texas Tech University and was the first chief executive of China Netcom, know the government does not necessarily mean what it says -- Chinese officials are aware that these companies need foreign capital. That is why the government has devised ways to allow the News Corporation, AOL Time Warner and most recently eBay to invest.
Mr. Sheff's description of the maneuvering among rival government agencies is particularly instructive. Mr. Tian, possibly the star of the book, left AsiaInfo to create China Netcom, a government-backed telecommunications company. Four government entities helped start it -- the Ministry of Railways; the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television; the Shanghai city government; and the Chinese Academy of Sciences, where Jiang Mianhen, son of China's president, Jiang Zemin, played a prominent role.
Mr. Tian was promised that he would be able to run Netcom as a Western-style start-up. Its goal was to lay enough fiber-optic cable to create a broadband network that could compete against the much stodgier, government-controlled China Telecom. The book even describes a visit to China Netcom by the premier, Zhu Rongji, who is impressed at the rapid progress Netcom has made under Mr. Tian's aggressive, American-style leadership.
But the book also describes how Mr. Tian was constantly seeking to please his government sponsors. They couldn't leave him alone, as they had promised. Indeed, after Mr. Sheff finished the book, the government split China Telecom into four entities and merged China Netcom into one of them. It is unclear what role Mr. Tian will play. The maneuvering among government bureaucrats does reduce the transparency of the Chinese system and makes it difficult for private Internet entrepreneurs to thrive.
So, as usual, the messy truth about China's future lies somewhere between starry optimism and cynical dismissal. What's conspicuously lacking in these books, as in many previous ones, is an effort to define a more nuanced analysis of what's happening in China. It appears that all that sells is pie-in-the-sky transformation or utter collapse.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The Book Value column on March 24, reviewing "China Dawn," by David Sheff, misattributed the comment "A new China will emerge" in a quotation about the Internet's potential to help modernize China. The words were those of Edward Tian, an Internet entrepreneur in China, not the author's.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two new books on China take opposite perspectives on recent economic changes in the country. In Shanghai, old and new China co-exist. (R. S. Photos for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (50%) REVIEWS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); SINA CORP (55%)

TICKER: SINA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%)

PERSON: STUDWELL, JOE; SHEFF, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); PACIFIC OCEAN (54%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) CHINA

TITLE: CHINA DREAM, THE (BOOK); CHINA DAWN (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



611 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Losses of Equal Value 

BYLINE:  By Michael I. Meyerson; Michael I. Meyerson is a professor at the University of Baltimore School of Law and author of "Political Numeracy."

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
The final rules for disbursing federal funds to the victims of Sept. 11 demonstrate the limits of mathematics in addressing the real but immeasurable values of human existence.
 Kenneth R. Feinberg, the special master and administrator of the Victims Compensation Fund, announced earlier this month how money will be distributed to the victims and families of victims. For noneconomic loss, the lives lost are all treated alike. The rules value the pain and suffering of each individual who died at $250,000 and the intangible harm to each spouse or child of a victim at $100,000. But for economic loss there will be enormous differences in payments. 
 The formula bases awards for economic loss on an estimate of the wages the victim would have earned over the course of a lifetime, using his or her average salary for the preceding three years. Because of the formula's emphasis on economic loss, total payouts will vary from less than $400,000 to more than $4 million.
Critics frequently complain that calculations like these (which are often used in the courts) undervalue the loss suffered by people in lower-paying jobs. Even as a purely economic matter, the numbers are questionable. The salary-based calculation stubbornly presupposes that those in public service jobs, like military personnel, police officers, firefighters and emergency workers, would have stayed in those jobs, never changing their circumstances by moving on to other professions or going to medical or law school, for example. Nor does the formula consider that victims who worked only part-time or had left the job market to stay home with their young children might have returned to full-time work.
But even if the calculations were refined, why should lost income be the determining factor for payouts from this fund, permitting the family of one victim to recover more than 10 times what is given to that of another? The answer is that the compensation fund has been seen as a replacement for litigation. To shield the airlines from bankruptcy, the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, which created the compensation fund, limits the liability of airlines in the Sept. 11 deaths largely to the amount of their insurance coverage. The act also requires that those who take money from the compensation fund agree up front to waive their right to sue.
Once the compensation fund was viewed as a surrogate for litigation, the calculations for disbursement fell into the same trap that has long plagued the legal system. In compensation calculations, concrete factors like lost wages tend to overwhelm intangible factors like emotional loss. It is all too easy to do the math with work hours rather than with heartbreak. How much simpler it is to pay the family that lost a stay-at-home parent for a housecleaning service and tuition at a day care center than to try to assess the lost value of the time the children would have spent with a parent: playing, learning, arguing, living.
The formula reflects the values of the tort system, which pragmatically reduces loss to a monetary calculation. But the purpose of the compensation fund is greater: to serve as a national expression of unity in the face of a tragedy unique in American history, as well as to help survivors. While juries are instructed routinely not to permit their sympathy for victims to enter into their consideration of damage awards, this fund represents an attempt to embody our collective sympathy.
The families of the firefighter and the financier, the broker and the busboy, with their shared emotional losses, should be compensated equally. What ultimately unites the victims and their survivors with each other and with the nation is far greater than the differences in their last paychecks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); FAMILY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); DAMAGES (77%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); LAWYERS (68%); HIJACKING (66%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); ARMED FORCES (51%) TERRORISM; SUITS AND LITIGATION; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: MEYERSON, MICHAEL I 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



612 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Leader of Belarus Challenges a Punishment by Pension 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 23 

 BODY:
Political enemies of Belarus's autocratic ruler, Aleksandr Lukashenko, have been hectored and arrested, and sometimes have even vanished. But his predecessor as president, Stanislav Shushkevich, is suffering in especially cruel and unusual fashion: the government refuses to index his monthly pension for inflation.
 In Belarus, where prices tripled annually through the 1990's and the currency periodically sheds zeroes to appear less worthless, that is a heartless fate indeed. 
 "It used to be around $200, which is a good pension by our standards," Mr. Shushkevich said in a telephone interview. "Now it is 3,196 rubles. That equals $1.80." Enough for four loaves of excellent brown bread or a bottle of vodka, but not both.
Mr. Shushkevich's inventive punishment has been going on for more than four years. But it came to light only this month, in a Minsk courtroom, after he sued the Labor and Social Security Ministry, arguing that President Lukashenko was engaging in political revenge.
The government denies that, but no one would dispute that Mr. Shushkevich would be a choice target. In December 1991, Mr. Shushkevich, then the chairman of his nation's Supreme Soviet, met with President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia and Ukraine's leader, Leonid Kravchuk, at a Belarussian hunting lodge and signed the papers that dissolved the Soviet Union.
Mr. Lukashenko, an admirer of Stalin and all things Soviet, has called the dissolution of the Soviet Union a crime. He became president in 1994 by defeating Mr. Shushkevich, by then Belarus's leader, in a bitter election, and extended his rule through a questionable referendum in 1996.
By then, Mr. Shushkevich was a member of Belarus's democratic opposition, drawing a monthly pension of about 3.2 million rubles, about $200, for his past service as the chairman of Belarus's Supreme Soviet. In September 1997, Mr. Lukashenko issued an executive decree setting new rates and cost-of-living conditions for pensions of state officials -- except, it seems, former chairmen of the Supreme Soviet.
By coincidence, the only two retired chairmen were Mr. Shushkevich and Seymon Sheretsky, then the opposition leader. Mr. Sheretsky later fled Belarus after receiving death threats.
Mr. Shushkevich has stayed on, but since Mr. Lukashenko's decree was issued, the only change to his pension has been the lopping off of three zeroes. He calculates that his 3,196-ruble stipend is now less than one-hundredth of the inflation-adjusted pension of an official of similar rank.
Nor is that all, Mr. Shushkevich said. The government has declined to grant him the breaks on rent and city services accorded other retired officials. Nor is he allowed to teach, he said, although the state university still uses a prize-winning radioelectronics textbook he wrote.
Mr. Shushkevich said he had scraped by with the help of American scholars -- he worked at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington and lectured at Harvard, Yale and Columbia in early 2000 -- and by making occasional speeches in Poland.
He said he had been battling for his cost-of-living adjustment for more than two years, to no avail. Only after exhausting those appeals did he go to court, where the filing fee was 15 times his monthly pension.
The government argued that only the rubber-stamp Parliament could index Mr. Shushkevich's pension for inflation. This month, the court agreed.
Although he said he had no hope of winning a reversal, Mr. Shushkevich said he planned to appeal the decision to the highest court. He had better hurry. In the last three months, the value of his pension has dropped by 15 cents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); REFERENDUMS (64%); TRENDS (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: LUKASHENKO, ALEKSANDR G (PRES); SHUSHKEVICH, STANISLAV; WINES, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) BELARUS (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (79%) BELARUS

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



613 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Stocks Retreat on Threat of Rising Rates

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Wall Street received upbeat news about the economy last week and treated it as a warning of problems ahead for earnings.
 Stocks retreated as the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged. 
In its announcement on Tuesday, the Fed indicated that it might begin raising interest rates if the economy continued to strengthen. 
 Investors worried that the financial and technology sectors would be hurt by rising rates. Leading a drop in technology was Intel, which fell sharply as analysts lowered revenue and profit predictions.
 Airline stocks also slumped. Delta Air Lines fell more than 8 percent after the company said it expected a quarterly loss of at least $350 million. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 179.56 points, or 1.7 percent, to 10,427.67, while the technology-laden Nasdaq composite declined by 16.91 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,851.39. The Standard and Poor's 500-stock index fell 17.46 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,148.70.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell for the week on inflation fears. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.39 percent from 5.33 percent. MICHAEL BRICK

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" QwestCommunicationsNYSE: QQwest, which unnerved Wall Street by unexpectedly drawing down a $4 billion line of credit, said its banks agreed to relax debt restrictions in the credit agreement.Friday's Close: $8.50Week's Change: -2.07%EST. '02 P/E: 62.04 Travelocity.comNNM: TVLYThe online ticket seller urged shareholders to accept a $420 million cash offer from Sabre Holdings, after Sabre raised its takeover bid by 22 percent.Friday's Close: $27.95Week's Change: +3.90%EST. '02 P/E: 40.22 CarnivalNYSE: CCLCarnival's hostile $6.8 billion bid for P&O Princess, a rival, has come under regulatory scrutiny from the British government.Friday's Close: $32.30Week's Change: -1.19%EST. '02 P/E: 20.14 HalliburtonNYSE: HALThe energy services company plans to split its operations into two independent subsidiaries. It says the changes are intended in part to stop the slide in Halliburton stock because of asbestos liability.Friday's Close: $15.70Week's Change: -5.82%EST. '02 P/E: 16.22 ViroPharmaNNM: VPHMA federal advisory committee opposed approval of a drug developed by ViroPharma to treat the cause of the common cold rather than its symptoms.Friday's Close: $5.90Week's Change: -57.62%EST. '02 P/E: -- VivendiNNM: VEThe world's largest water company won a contract worth $1.5 billion over 20 years to manage the waterworks of Indianapolis.Friday's Close: $31.76Week's Change: +2.88%EST. '02 P/E: 23.47 Eastman KodakNYSE: EKHurt by declining film sales, Kodak had its credit ratings on about $1 billion in bonds lowered by Moody's Investors Service.Friday's Close: $32.09Week's Change: +0.28%EST. '02 P/E: 14.69 ImClone SystemsNNM: IMCLA Congressional committee asked ImClone's chief executive to provide information regarding any sales of company stock by his relatives or by offshore accounts he controlled.Friday's Close: $26.06Week's Change: -0.31%EST. '02 P/E: -- (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); AIRLINES (70%); BOND MARKETS (70%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); INTEL CORP (57%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (74%) INDIANA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



614 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Looking for a Few Good Eggs

BYLINE:  By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
Eastertime is the season for eggs -- a time to hunt for them, dye them and eat them. The egg industry took in about $3.5 billion in revenue last year, and consumption in the United States has gone up steadily in the last few years, according to the American Egg Board. 
The rate is now 260 eggs per person a year, up from 234 in 1991, but still down from the high of 402 in 1945.
 The recent rise can be attributed in part to a revision by the American Heart Association in its recommended intake of egg yolks -- it now allows for up to four a week as a part of a healthy diet, instead of three, because studies have shown that they are slightly lower in cholesterol than previously thought. KATHLEEN O'BRIEN

GRAPHIC: Charts show: RESTAURANT SALESYear-over-year change PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSWeekly totals in thousands NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSYear-over-year change ONLINE SALESDollars in millions ENERGY PRICESMonthly change in consumer index HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESFour-week moving average, daily (Sources: American Egg Board egg consumption ; NPDFoodworld restaurant sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics energy prices ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TABLE EGGS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (87%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (87%); EASTER SEASON (74%); NUTRITION (66%) EGGS; HEART; CHOLESTEROL; DIET AND NUTRITION; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (57%) AMERICAN HEART ASSN 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, KATHLEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



615 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Land Advocates and Drivers Reach Fork in the Off-Road 

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY

DATELINE: BIG CYPRESS NATIONAL PRESERVE, Fla., March 22 

 BODY:
An avid outdoorsman, Lyle McCandless likes to spend his weekends here in the southwest Florida back country hunting for small game and fishing for large-mouth bass. 
 But in recent years, people who enjoy the land like Mr. McCandless have come under intense criticism from environmentalists, who say they are abusing the Big Cypress National Preserve and public wilderness areas throughout the country. That is because to get to the best hunting sites and fishing holes, Mr. McCandless and his buddies from the Collier County Sportsman's Club near Naples drive their off-road vehicles into the most remote sections of this 729,000-acre preserve, a vast undeveloped area of wetlands, cypress groves and protected wildlife. 
 Environmental groups contend that the squat, fat-tired all-terrain vehicles are damaging wetlands and wildlife by creating thousands of miles of deep ruts in the soil. The tracks in Big Cypress are so extensive that, from the air, the preserve looks as though someone has dropped thousands of giant strands of spaghetti on the land.
More than merely causing aesthetic damage, the environmentalists say, the tire tracks have damaged soil, water and vegetation and changed the habitat of endangered species like the Florida panther and the Cape Sable seaside sparrow.
In an effort to stop the damage, the groups have sought to limit or eliminate the use of all-terrain vehicles, swamp buggies and other off-road transportation in the preserve, which is 50 miles east of Naples and borders Everglades National Park.
As a result, a fight is raging between environmentalists and all-terrain vehicle users here that is a microcosm of the battle between interest groups and agencies nationwide trying to balance recreational use with preservation on public lands.
"What you have is a minority of the population using Big Cypress and other places around the nation as an amusement park for their thrill vehicles," said Erich Pica, an economic policy analyst for Friends of the Earth, a national environmental organization. "The environmental degradation it's caused, the air pollution it's caused and the effect on endangered species and other animals has to be factored into this use."
That, of course, is where the environmental groups and the users of all-terrain vehicles part ways. 
"You can't have an area that is public and have people come in and not leave a footprint," Mr. McCandless said. "There are extremists out there who want to have untouched land, and they can't have that when it's public land."
At the core of the issue is whether scars from all-terrain vehicle trails are simply aesthetically unpleasant to environmental purists or a cause of permanent damage to the nation's most fragile and biologically rich lands. The debate has stirred controversy in several states, including Minnesota, where legislators are considering a ban on off-trail use of the vehicles in state forests, and Georgia, where environmental groups are advocating the closing of illegal trails in national forests.
"There is growing public awareness about the damage these machines are inflicting all across the country, from the deserts of Southern California to our national forest in the Rocky Mountains to the state forest in Minnesota to national seashores in places like North Carolina, and the list goes on," said Scott Kovarovics, director of the Natural Trails and Waters Coalition.
Tempers have run so high in some states that people on opposing sides have nearly turned violent. 
"One of our board members had a gun pulled on him by a guy because the A.T.V. users were going anywhere they wanted, and he went out and dragged some debris against the trail," said Brent Martin, director of Georgia Forestwatch, a nonprofit group that has been collecting data on off-road vehicle damage to the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forests in that state.
At Big Cypress, off-road vehicles have created 22,000 miles of deep ruts that have collected runoff and affected water quality and flow, the National Parks Service says. That has in turn changed animal habitats and plant growth, the agency contends.
Noise from the vehicles and the presence of people so far into the preserve has also frightened endangered species like the Florida panther and the Cape Sable seaside sparrow from their natural habitats, operators of the preserve say. 
In response, the preserve's operators have put into effect a land management plan that will gradually restrict the use of the vehicles to 400 miles of designated trails over 10 years.
"What we're trying to do is make sure people get out to the back country but also to make sure those resources are available for future generations," said John Donahue, superintendent of Big Cypress.
The restrictions, however, have angered Mr. McCandless and other riders, who filed a lawsuit in federal court last year challenging the plan. Negotiations to settle the dispute abruptly ended last month, and the two sides now say they will make their case in court.
The popularity of all-terrain vehicles is steadily increasing, according to the Motorcycle Industry Council. Last year, sales of the vehicles increased 12.4 percent to 825,000 units, according to the association.
Bill Horn, a Washington lawyer representing off-road vehicle users in Yellowstone and Big Cypress, says the debate is a philosophical one between traditional nature lovers, who think the land is for bird watching and hiking, and urbanites fond of vehicles that can tackle any manner of terrain. "It's the difference between some people looking at a swamp and seeing a hostile environment and others looking at a swamp and seeing a fragile ecology," Mr. Horn said. "I think what is happening is that there are attempts to take what are fundamentally subjective, aesthetic judgments and hide them under these illusory resource concerns."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tracks from recreational all-terrain vehicles mark the wilderness in Big Cypress National Preserve, a 729,000-acre area in southern Florida. (David Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); WETLANDS (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); FISHES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WILDLIFE (78%); LAND DEGRADATION (77%); BIODIVERSITY (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (75%); ANIMALS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); AIR POLLUTION (67%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



616 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Debt Is Closing Denver's 3-Year-Old Aquarium 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

DATELINE: DENVER, March 22 

 BODY:
Ocean Journey, awash in debt, has announced plans to close after less than three years in business. Industry experts said it would be the first accredited aquarium to close in the country. Others continue to struggle. 
 Ocean Journey has begun to search for new homes for 3 Sumatran tigers, 2 sea otters and 8,000 other fish and animals, even as the founders and employees hold out hope for a benefactor to rescue it. 
 "We're working awfully hard on trying to find a white knight out there to make this last-ditch effort," the chief executive, Doug Townsend, said. 
The decision to close the $93 million aquarium on April 2 was made after failed efforts to find new financial support, including a bailout from the City of Denver. 
"You can't make lemonade out of this lemon," Mayor Wellington Webb said after the city backed out. In a statement this week, Mr. Webb said, "It was difficult to justify using public tax dollars to save a private venture that carried $63 million in debt, particularly while the city is making its own budget adjustments as a result of the slowing economy."
Ocean Journey attracted 912,000 visitors in its first six months, in 1999, and more than one million in 2000, putting the attendance figure in the top 10 among the nation's aquariums. The aquarium had relied on attracting 1.1 million visitors a year to make debt payments, and its owners had promised not to ask for taxpayer support for 10 years. But when attendance dipped, to 742,554 visitors last year, the aquarium was $10 million short in ticket revenue and the owners defaulted on bond payments and sought taxpayer help and new benefactors.
From Valdez, Alaska, to Albuquerque to Camden, N.J., many cities have begun to include aquariums in their plans for downtown, bay or riverfront redevelopment. The American Zoo and Aquarium Association in Silver Spring, Md., lists 36 accredited aquariums. It has a list of 11 unaffiliated aquariums and 31 in development. All aquariums rely in varying degrees on admission fees, taxpayers, donations and grants. 
Ocean Journey, 1,000 miles from the nearest ocean, is like other aquariums that opened in the 1990's, with exhibitions on aquatic life in a nearby river or lake plus a touch of the tropics.
The aquarium, on the bank of the Platte, includes a tour of a mock Colorado River with native trout and otters and messages about conservation. A mock flash food, with a splash zone, crashes through red rocks and then into the Sea of Cortez, where the river empties out and stingrays and brightly colored fish swim by. An Indonesian River Journey includes the three rare tigers and abundant rain forest mist.
Some aquariums, like the 72-year-old Shedd in Chicago, have laid off employees because of the recession and a decline in tourism after Sept. 11. The $84 million Florida Aquarium, which opened in 1995 in Tampa, changed from a nonprofit corporation to a public-private entity in 1996 and is now in the black, officials said.
The $52 million Camden aquarium had 1.2 million visitors its opening year, 1992, but that has dropped and it now hovers around 500,000. Officials fault a lack of nearby development. Aquariums are hybrids, often called "edutainment." City Councilwoman Susan Barnes-Gelt of Denver suggested that the country might have too many. 
"The boom years have passed," Ms. Barnes-Gelt said. "And when you think of core cultural values, do you think of an aquarium? I think of the symphony, the art museum, the ballet and the zoo." 
In some ways, Ocean Journey's plan to close has been good. Since the announcement, the lines at the entrance extend down the sidewalk.
"It wasn't here for very long," said Eric Lumsden Jr., 11, who brought his father for a first-time visit. "It's like in the middle of the country, and there's no ocean here. I'll miss it. I liked the sharks."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Phibbs, 4, of Silverthorne, Colo., was part of the crowds drawn to Ocean Journey in Denver in its final days. The $93 million aquarium is set to close on April 2 because of financial problems. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); ACCREDITATION (89%); FISHES (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ANIMALS (78%); WILD CATS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RECESSION (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); TICKET SALES (65%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (93%) COLORADO, USA (93%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



617 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
From Puppy Protection to Feeding the Poor, Farm Bill Issues Incite Passions

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
For the American Kennel Club, the question is whether the government can decide when dogs will be allowed to breed. For big rice and cotton farmers, the issue is a provision that would limit each farmer's annual subsidy to $275,000. For advocates of the poor, the goal is to add legal immigrants to the food stamp program without undercutting hungry school children or their mothers.
 After three weeks of closed-door negotiations over the $171 billion farm bill, lobbyists for agribusiness and the poor are claiming victory, while environmentalists are complaining. 
 "This represents a very important investment for the needy," said Ellen Vollinger of the Food Research and Action Center, which lobbies for nutrition programs for the poor.
Mary Kay Thatcher, director of public policy at the American Farm Bureau Federation, said the 70 percent increase in subsidies was good enough for farmers to get on with their spring planting.
"It's never easy for a farm bill," Ms. Thatcher said. "But now Congress won't have to deal every year with giving economic disaster assistance for farmers."
Environmentalists, who have argued for more money to protect the land and water, are admitting defeat, saying they feel betrayed.
"Once again, Congress was extremely generous to the very largest, most heavily subsidized farming operations in the country," said Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, which operates a Web site detailing how much farmers receive from the government.
But this was only the first round, although a critical one. 
All special interests are getting a second and third chance to influence the farm bill as negotiators try to work out a common policy from the differing House and Senate measures. After more than a year of hearings and weeks of arguments and votes in Congress, the critical decisions are being made by 21 lawmakers who will carve up the money and decide which programs to adopt and which to abandon.
Some policies debated in the bill have little to do with farming. One hot question this year is how often dog breeders will be allowed to produce litters of pups.
The Senate bill's "puppy protection" provision would crack down on excessive breeding of dogs in commercial "puppy mills." It is fiercely defended by the Humane Society and fiercely opposed by the American Kennel Club out of fear it would extend to their breeders.
The Kennel Club's Web site urges members to "keep the pressure on" lawmakers, as the farm bill could be complete the week of April 9.
In the best of years, the farm bill incites passions not associated with wheat, corn and soybeans.
When a $6 billion mistake is made, as was done this year by the Congressional Budget Office, those passions become crucial matters.
The Senate approved a farm bill last month that included big increases for food stamps and environmental programs, only to discover that $6 billion of that money did not exist. The budget office had miscalculated the cost of the crop subsidy program.
With farmers complaining that they need to know how much money they will receive from the government to complete their spring planting, the negotiators have decided to put about $15 billion each year into subsidies for grains and cotton, largely at the expense of environmental programs.
The environmental and conservation money, originally $22 billion in the Senate bill, has been cut to $17.1 billion over 10 years, $1 billion more than in the House version.
"This isn't a farm policy, it's a check-writing machine for the big commodity growers," said Ferd Hoefner of the Sustainable Agriculture Coalition, which represents small farmers and rural communities generally ineligible for most of the big programs.
In this election year, Democrats and Republicans are trying to appear as saviors of farmers who grow the food and the hungry who need it.
State and local groups, like the National Conference of State Legislatures, the American Public Human Services Association and the National Governors Association, have besieged Congress for more money for food stamps and simpler rules to ensure that the needy use them.
"The food stamp program serves an average of over 17 million needy Americans a month but reaches only 60 percent of those eligible for the program," said one letter, signed by America's Second Harvest, a network of food banks that supplies most of the food to the nation's soup kitchens and food pantries.
So far, the food stamp and nutrition programs have been increased by $6.4 billion, almost twice what the House had offered but $2 billion less than envisioned by the Senate.
Commercial farmers have fared even better. Crop subsidies will be increased by 70 percent and a new one, for peanuts, added.
"This is certainly a program we could be comfortable with," said Patricia Buschette of the National Association of Wheat Growers.
While neither party wants to appear unfriendly to farmers, the Democrats say they would spread the money further through environmental programs if the House Republicans would agree to the $275,000 payment limits.
That would free more of the money initially cut from conservation and rural development programs.
Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, of South Dakota, said this week that "we can do even better if our colleagues in the House agree to cost-saving payment limitations." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); DOGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); KENNELS & PET BREEDERS (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (89%); COTTON FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); ANIMAL WELFARE (78%); RICE FARMING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (73%); NUTRITION (71%); FOOD STAMPS (71%); APPROVALS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN KENNEL CLUB (91%); FOOD RESEARCH & ACTION CENTER (57%); FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (57%); AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



618 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: INSIDE BASEBALL; 
Phillies Have Tension From Third to Dugout

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

DATELINE: CLEARWATER, Fla., March 23 

 BODY:
In any discussion of baseball economics, the Philadelphia Phillies hold a special place. They are the most obvious example of the teams whose financial status prompts the question, "How could they have messed this up so badly?"
 Despite playing in the country's fourth-largest market, the Phillies last year were 21st out of 30 teams in local revenue, 7th in operating losses and 7th in most money received from baseball's welfare program, revenue sharing. In the six years in which clubs have shared their local revenue as part of an agreement negotiated with the union, the Phillies have received the ninth-highest total, $39 million, their welfare payments escalating each year, from $1 million in 1996 to $12 million last year. 
 And this year, coming off a season in which they finished only two games from first place, the Phillies threaten to squander their improvement on the field over their inability to live peacefully with perhaps their most important player. 
Scott Rolen has become so disenchanted with the Phillies that he has shunned the opportunity to earn $90 million over the next 7 years or $140 million over the next 10, and declared his intention to be a free agent in November.
The Phillies are putting their best face on the Rolen quandary, but the facade could crumble at the first sign of adversity. 
"I guess anything is possible, but it's really on us," Doug Glanville, the team's center fielder, said when asked if the Rolen matter could become a distraction. "I haven't heard anything about it in weeks. Scott's our third baseman right now. If we let it be a distraction, it will be, but if we don't, we'll handle it."
Catcher Mike Lieberthal said he did not think the issue would undermine the Phillies' chances of competing with the Braves and the Mets.
"Everybody knows Scott's situation," Lieberthal said. "We just hope Scott is with us the whole year. If we would lose a player like Scott, we're not going to be the same team. Everybody knows they're going to be talking about trade rumors probably the whole year. But I don't think the players care. They just care about this year."
Rolen himself, Lieberthal added, will be able to focus on his job on the field. "He'll cross that road when he comes to it at the end of the season," Lieberthal said of free agency. "I don't think he'll be bothered by it."
But this spring there have been several instances of fallout from the status of Rolen, who has averaged 26 home runs and 95 runs batted in during five full seasons.
Just before training camp opened last month, Rolen appeared at a news conference here at the club's invitation to discuss his decision not to accept the $90 million/$140 million offer. When General Manager Ed Wade asked Rolen what he would say when asked why he rejected the offer, Rolen said he would say that the team's ownership was not committed to winning. (The Phillies have consistently been in the lower half of payrolls.) 
Wade objected, but that is precisely what Rolen told the Phillies last November when he rejected the offer, and that is what he said at the news conference.
In camp itself, the relationship between Rolen and Manager Larry Bowa has been scrutinized, much to the displeasure of Bowa, who seems to have taken it personally that Rolen will not commit to staying with the Phillies. In an early incident, television microphones picked up disparaging comments Bowa made to Wade about Rolen.
Then Bowa was found to have stopped speaking to Rolen, a development that Bowa denied even after he acknowledged it to reporters, explaining that people were making too much of an issue out of their conversations.
When Bowa was asked last week if the matter could become a distraction, he said: "The only people who make it a distraction are the Philly writers. Every day there's something in the paper. There's nothing going on."
Asked about reports that he was not talking to Rolen, Bowa said: "Totally false. Totally false. I should say not false, lies."
Though Bowa did not mention it at the time, word surfaced the next day that the two men had met a day earlier, before an exhibition game against Kansas City in Davenport, Fla.. The meeting was apparently instigated by Bowa's desire to stop the reports that they were not talking.
Bowa said he and Rolen could exist peacefully. Bowa also said he did not think the possibility of a trade would become a distraction because he did not think the Phillies would trade Rolen.
"I'm not talking for Ed Wade," Bowa said, "but I would say the only way Scott would be traded is if we were 20 games out."
Does he want to have Rolen for the entire season? "Without a doubt," Bowa said. "He's the best third baseman in baseball. Why wouldn't I?"
Bowa wants Rolen in the lineup so much that he has been keeping him in exhibition games longer than regulars usually play and has occasionally kept Rolen on the bench longer than usual in games in which he has not played in case he wanted to use him as a pinch-hitter.
Rolen, according to a person familiar with developments, has noticed the unusual treatment but has not said anything to Bowa. Rolen, the person said, will not give Bowa the satisfaction of getting upset over it.

Loyal to the End
No one need compete for the executive of the year award this year. Terry Ryan has already won it. 
Ryan has not made any player moves that will put Minnesota in the World Series; on the contrary, his hands were tied during the off-season because of the Twins' precarious position with contraction. But Ryan exhibited an act of class rarely seen in baseball circles when he rejected the chance to interview to be general manager of the Toronto Blue Jays. He did not know if he would have his job much longer, but he refused to abandon his fellow employees.
"That was a signal to everybody," Ron Gardenhire, the Twins' new manager, said. "When the general manager has a chance to go someplace else or at least be interviewed and he rejects it saying, 'I'm right here; this is where I want to be,' that made a statement for everybody in our organization. He showed some leadership there, and everybody followed suit. No one left. Nobody wanted to leave."
When word emerged that the Blue Jays had requested permission to speak with Ryan, Gardenhire said, "that wasn't a great time." 
"I had been interviewed for the manager's job, but it hadn't been decided," he added. "When that came out, it was a little heartthrob for me, too. That was a stressful time. If Terry leaves and we have a new person come in and we have a ballclub, what's going to happen? He saved a lot of people. He made a statement for us. He gave a lot of life to a lot of people."

Stressing the Fundamentals
His neighbors heard that the Chicago White Sox had named Nick Leyva the organizational bunting coach and said, "Are they trying to get rid of you?"
Leyva, who is also a manager in the White Sox system, laughed in relating the reaction. He knew how it sounded, but he also knew the importance of his new assignment.
 "It's a forgotten art," Leyva said of bunting. "I think if you play the game the way it's supposed to be played, there are going to be numerous situations where you really have to concentrate and get that fundamental down. I know our organization is not very good at it and it will get better."
Players, Leyva said, do not take bunting seriously in this age of home runs.
"In batting practice," Leyva, a former Philadelphia manager, said, "they bunt two to see what kind of velocity the batting practice pitcher has and then they go to hacking. I think years ago -- when Astroturf came into baseball -- that was when bunting sort of disappeared. It's a lot harder to bunt on Astroturf because you can't kill the ball. A lot of people got away from it, and it's coming back to haunt them."
As a player, Leyva grew up in the St. Louis organization. "Guys like George Kissel stressed fundamentals so much," he said. "When I worked six years under Whitey Herzog, he stressed fundamentals. Part of that was bunting, and that's why the Cardinals won the 1982 World Series."
Leyva acknowledged that he would not be an overnight success in his new role. "But in two or three years," he said, "everybody's going to know how to execute a sacrifice bunt."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In five seasons, Scott Rolen has averaged 26 homers and 95 R.B.I. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%) BASEBALL 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (94%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (59%); MINNESOTA TWINS (59%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (59%) PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES; MINNESOTA TWINS; TORONTO BLUE JAYS; CHICAGO WHITE SOX 

PERSON: ROLEN, SCOTT; RYAN, TERRY; LEYVA, NICK; CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); ONTARIO, CANADA (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (88%); CANADA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



619 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Midwood Journal; 
Beautiful Dresses, and Never Mind the Price Tags

BYLINE:  By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN 

 BODY:
In the days before Passover, the scene outside Bobbie's Place, a small children's clothing shop in Midwood, Brooklyn, looks a lot like a mini-Macy's sale.
 Orthodox Jewish women, some by themselves, most with their children, line up early. They fidget and check the time, trying as best they can to hide their desire to be the first inside. But, alas, the women cannot help themselves. The doors open and chaos ensues, because they know the bargains at Bobbie's Place really are unbeatable. 
 It is not a typical store.
At Bobbie's, tucked in the basement of a nondescript town house, talk about money is forbidden, and credit cards are not accepted. There is not even a cash register, because there is no need for one. The brand-new single-breasted wool suits for boys and pastel-colored dresses that hang on the racks are all free, one family's gift to thousands of children whose parents' paychecks -- if their parents have jobs -- are often too stretched to pay for new clothes.
For the families who shop at Bobbie's -- by appointment only, four times a year -- there is just one rule: The children are not to be told the clothes are free, or that Bobbie's is actually a three-year-old family-run charity. It is the only rule that Michal Schick and her husband, Avi Schick, the store's managers, are adamant about.
"We're just trying to make kids happy," Mrs. Schick, 31, said one recent night as she played receptionist and sales clerk to a packed store of 10 eager mothers who had come with toddlers in strollers and excited but tired-looking preteenagers. "We don't want to just give them a dress or a suit. It's the whole experience of coming, trying the clothes on, standing in the mirror, twirling around and knowing they're going to go home with something new. That's all they need to know."
During the last three years, the little store has given away about 2,000 boys' suits, 1,700 dresses, 1,500 pairs of pajamas and untold numbers of diapers.
To help carry out this benevolent deception, the clothes, which are either donated by manufacturers like Oshkosh or bought by the Schicks at wholesale prices directly from manufacturers, are divided by age groups -- from toddlers to preteenagers -- wrapped in plastic and given price tags. The children shop the racks alongside their mothers. But once the perfect outfit has been found, they are encouraged to do what many stores would frown upon: play among themselves.
During a recent pre-Passover shopping spree, Sarah, 35, an unemployed mother of four who had recently separated from her husband, marched up and down the aisles with her two daughters as they excitedly pulled dresses from the racks and loaded them into their mother's arms.
"Everybody gets one," she reminded the girls.
"But what about this one?" her 7-year-old asked, flashing her mother a quick smile and holding up a beige dress trimmed in white.
Hooked by the smile, Sarah, who asked that her last name not be used, relented and told her daughters to go and try on their selections.
"To be able to come here," Sarah said, "it takes away a big financial burden. For Passover, every mother wants her child to have something nice like all the other kids."
Her daughters came out of the dressing room, content to wear matching frilly mint green dresses, each with price tags of $42, that she had picked out for them. Sarah sent them to look after their younger brothers while she took her place in the checkout line. She huddled with Mrs. Schick, who noted her choices on an index card and quickly loaded them into black shopping bags. (Mrs. Schick keeps cards on as many as 700 families, for inventory and to catalog the shoppers' preferences.)
The charade that goes on at Bobbie's Place has lured Jewish mothers from across the city, and it has also helped Mr. Schick and his 16 cousins keep a promise to their grandmother, who died three years ago at 93.
The cousins are spread out across the country, from Brooklyn to Texas. Each plays a role in keeping the shop going, some writing thank-you letters to foundations, others taking inventory or raising money, all to keep alive the legacy of Renee Schick.
The owner of a kosher bakery in Borough Park, Mrs. Schick made a habit out of giving, whether it was baking cakes to give to clerks at her local grocery store or persuading her children and grandchildren to give unused clothing to the less fortunate. Most customers do not know that the store is named, with an "i" added, for Mrs. Schick, who was known to everyone as Bobbe. A picture of her as a 3-year-old in Hungary hangs in the back of the store, reminding the Schicks of their mission. 
"Her whole life was about giving, adding dignity to people's lives," said Mr. Schick, who is deputy counsel to Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer. The night before she died, Mr. Schick said, his grandmother insisted that her family promise to visit and bake a birthday cake for an ailing neighbor, just as she had for more than two decades.
"You can't be around that kind of giving and not be left with an imprint," he said. "We're only doing what Bobbe instilled in us, trying to carry on a legacy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Your money is no good at Bobbie's Place, but don't tell the children. The store, a family-run charity in the basement of a town house in the Midwood section of Brooklyn, quietly gives merchandise to the needy. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (90%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHARITIES (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); WHOLESALE PRICES (60%) APPAREL; JEWS; PHILANTHROPY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

ORGANIZATION: BOBBIE'S PLACE (NYC STORE) 

PERSON: SCHICK, AVI; CHRISTIAN, NICHOLE M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) MIDWOOD (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



620 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: At Rights Meeting, Anxiety That Terror Fight Takes Lead 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, March 23 

 BODY:
One year ago, terrorism was barely noted by officials from the 53 countries who gather here annually for the Commission on Human Rights. But as the main United Nations rights body opened its review this year, terrorism was reshaping the debate.
 That worries rights campaigners, some of whom say that invoking terrorism allows countries with questionable records to escape condemnation by the commission. 
 "One cannot pick and choose countries where abuses will be allowed to go ignored simply because they're being committed by allies in the fight against terrorism," said Irene Kahn, secretary general of Amnesty International. "If this happens, the whole notion of human rights as a global standard is damaged."
A debate over terrorism and human rights was broached here at the opening session this week, when Mary Robinson, the United Nations human rights commissioner, noted that "international human rights are at some risk of being undermined" in the aftermath of Sept. 11. Measures to thwart terrorism risk violating such fundamental rights as the right to a fair trial, she said. 
European countries have urged solidarity in the fight against terrorism, and emphasized that counterterrorism measures should not undercut basic rights.
"There is no trade-off between effective action and the protection of human rights," Sweden's foreign minister, Anna Lindh, told the commission. "On the contrary, respect for human rights, democracy and social justice contribute to global stability and prevent acts of terrorism."
The United States, which was voted off the commission last year and is attending as an observer, took public issue with the contention that fighting terrorism is tied to correcting problems like poverty and discrimination. Both Mrs. Robinson and the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, Ruud Lubbers, have questioned whether the battle against terrorism can be won without more economic development.
Poverty does not legitimize terrorism, responded the American delegate, Kevin Moley. "We must be careful not to allow the ills of the world to be used to justify terrorism or support for terrorist organizations," he told the panel.
The deep-seated ambivalence of many countries surfaced when an effort to have a special one-day session to examine the question of terrorism and human rights died for lack of support. Rights campaigners believe the session could have addressed whether the rights issue is fading in international importance as countries create "shadow" justice systems with measures that restrict traditional rights.
Along with other groups, Amnesty International has been critical of the American plan to try detainees in military tribunals, and it reported last week that about 1,100 people had been detained in the United States without charges.
It is the larger powers that rights advocates fear will benefit the most from the antiterrorism climate. In an independent report released on Friday, Amnesty International accused China of using terrorism as an excuse to crack down on its Muslim Uighur minority.
China's human rights record has been scrutinized by the commission only once in the last decade, as it has ducked examination of its policies in Tibet and on religious groups through a procedural maneuver. Beijing intensively lobbied commission members to avoid the public embarrassment of debate and censure.
This year, with the censure resolution's usual chief sponsor, the United States, on the sidelines, there appears to be no political will to move against China.
The true test facing the commission, Mrs. Kahn believes, will be whether it takes steps to condemn Russia for its actions in Chechnya. Two earlier resolutions calling for an inquiry into Moscow's actions have essentially been ignored. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (96%); TERRORISM (94%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); MILITARY COURTS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%) TERRORISM; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (57%) HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION (UN); UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: ;ROBINSON, MARY (COMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



621 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: A Secret Settlement, but Little Solace, for Family in Lawsuit Against Priest 

BYLINE:  By ALISON LEIGH COWAN 

 BODY:
By June of 2000, a lawsuit by the Nauheimer family against a Westchester County priest, the Rev. Gennaro Gentile, was down to a single claim of assault and battery. Other alleged encounters between the priest and the family's two sons had been thrown out because the statute of limitations had expired. The Archdiocese of New York, which had been a defendant when the suit was filed in August 1997, had also been dropped from the case. 
 But even then, the family's lawyer, Robert J. Hilpert, was sharply limited by the courts in what he could ask the priest in a formal deposition, about what had happened with the Nauheimer boys and what the priest might have done with other boys. 
 With a judge's ruling that Father Gentile's character could not be explored, the family could neither establish if the priest's seven jumps from parish to parish over 17 years resulted from people making similar claims nor if the contact with their younger son was merely friendly, as the priest insisted, or intended to be sexual. 
A little over a year later, what had begun as a $55 million lawsuit was settled quietly, still shrouded in uncertainty. The lawyers and several principals are barred from talking about the case at all. But whatever the terms of the secret settlement, the court record and interviews with participants make clear that the case, as with many others like it involving emotional, intensely fought charges of abuse by clergy, resulted in no shortage of pain, confusion and lack of resolution. 
The younger Nauheimer son -- whose lawyer had been barred from delving into the priest's past -- had to undergo psychological exams for the defense that concluded the boy, 13 years old at the time of the incident, had found the priest's touching him unwelcome because of his own latent insecurity about homosexuality. And a priest who came forward with information that there had been concerns about Father Gentile says he was branded a "malcontent" and punished for it. 
Others who signed affidavits claiming Father Gentile had behaved inappropriately with them have no idea if their coming forward achieved anything; another family whose son was dragged into the case says they were disturbed to learn that money they received for counseling came out of a parish church fund earmarked for the indigent. 
Father Gentile continues to work for the archdiocese, on marriage annulments. His brief assignment to a Bronx parish last year set off protests from parishioners who threatened to boycott the collection plate and keep their children home until he was removed. Neither Father Jerry, as he is known, nor his lawyer, Mark K. Malone, returned phone calls on Friday seeking to discuss the case.
The specter that a priest with problems might be shunted from parish to parish was precisely what drove the Nauheimers to court, judging from statements they made before they were barred from talking. 
"Even though what happened to their children was not as serious as what happened to other kids, they felt they had an obligation to the other kids in the parish to try to expose this guy and stop him," said the Rev. Ron Lemmert, the former assistant pastor to Father Gentile, who cooperated with the Nauheimers.
Father Lemmert said he took some solace in knowing that for all the discomfort he and the Nauheimers have endured, his former supervisor now "has a bell around his neck and wherever he goes that bell will go 'tinkle, tinkle,' " he said.
At Church of the Holy Name of Mary, in Croton-on-Hudson, where Father Gentile worked at the time of the incidents, the allegations and their fallout have rippled through the community for years. 
The contact between the Nauheimer boys and Father Gentile, a one-time family friend, began in 1993, according to the court record. The older son, Vincent Jr., said that on one occasion, the priest urged him to choose a gift from a men's clothing catalog that featured thongs and novelty items. Later that year, he said the priest invited him to his lakeside retreat, and offered a massage that the boy said he had to stop. The boy was 15 at the time and did not tell his parents.
The following year, Father Gentile was invited for dinner and to watch a video at the Nauheimer home. After dinner, the priest and Brian, who was 13 at the time, were alone in the basement watching "Hobbit." According to Brian, the priest asked him to move closer and began twirling the boy's hair. When the contact shifted to his ear, neck and shoulders, Brian left the room and got his mother. 
At first, the family was inclined to let the matter go. But after learning in 1997 that another teenage boy had had a similar encounter, they filed suit in Supreme Court in White Plains. They and their lawyer have said often that the case was never about money -- proceeds would go to fight sexual abuse, they pledged. Yet, $55 million was attached to the suit, and the diocese answered forcefully. 
In an unusual tactic, Msgr. Edward O'Donnell, personnel director for the late Cardinal John J. O'Connor of the Archdiocese of New York, went to the pulpit of Holy Name of Mary and suggested at least to some of those in attendance that the case was without merit. And in his representation of Father Gentile, Mr. Malone included in his briefs the mother's income as a nurse, the father's recent unemployment and the brothers' tuition bills. 
Mr. Malone also claimed that the father of the Nauheimer boys may have been motivated by a vendetta against the church because of his own sexual abuse as a child at the hands of a priest. 
The family, though, kept on, gathering what they said was evidence to bolster its case, court records show. They found out that a priest as far back as 1971 warned church officials in somewhat cryptic phrases that Father Gentile might have problems. They asserted that law enforcement authorities had heard enough at one point to initiate a criminal review. And they obtained affidavits from two former parishioners -- including a police detective once honored at the White House -- who said they were groped by Father Gentile when they were children. 
The family also obtained the cooperation of a crucial ally, Father Lemmert, a man who served side by side with Father Gentile for seven years as the associate pastor at Holy Name of Mary. His affidavit stated that Father Gentile had been warned more than once not to take children on overnight trips, which he kept doing. 
But the Nauheimers soon encountered some of the problems in bringing such lawsuits in New York State. The statute of limitations meant that the two stronger claims involving Vincent Jr. were no good. Mr. Malone thereafter claimed that the case was about nothing but "hair-twirling." 
The Archdiocese of New York then got removed from the case by arguing that the priest's conduct was outside the scope of his official duties and that the archdiocese's earliest possible glimmer of a problem was in December 1995, when an anonymous letter arrived, more than a year after the incidents with the Nauheimer boys.
The family also suffered several legal setbacks that hampered their ability to pin down whether complaints they had heard about might have contributed to Father Gentile's unusual number of transfers.
Most seriously, though, they saw their sons' lives pried open in harsh ways. One low was the examination Brian underwent last year by a forensic psychologist chosen by the defense. Court papers show that Brian, by then a college sophomore, bristled at the questions and cut the exam short. Nonetheless, the examiner felt confident enough to prepare an 11-page report that the plaintiff, in accusing the priest of sexual intent without concrete proof, must have been suffering from a relatively common case of "homosexual panic." 
Technically, Father Lemmert is one of the few allowed to comment, though he, too, says he has been rebuked by church officials for talking too much already. He admits that he and Father Gentile "had our differences" almost from the moment Father Lemmert arrived at Holy Name of Mary in 1988 as the associate pastor, but that none of that colored his actions in the case. 
It was Father Lemmert who wrote the anonymous letter to the Archdiocese of New York's headquarters in Manhattan in December 1985. It outlined Father Gentile's fondness for having teenage boys join him for "overnight" stays at the rectory and "weeklong vacations." The letter's author explained he was afraid of signing his name because of "reprisals." 
By the following November, Father Lemmert said he felt compelled to take a more personal risk. He said he called Monsignor O'Donnell in the fall of 1996, when he learned that another teenager who had become extremely depressed told authorities that he was abused by Father Gentile.
Father Lemmert says he followed up with a letter on Nov. 7, 1996, to Monsignor O'Donnell naming three other priests who warned Father Gentile to discontinue the unchaperoned overnights. "It came as a great shock one week later when I learned he was taking four teenagers on a week's vacation to Pennsylvania," wrote Father Lemmert. "Perhaps he had no control over himself."
Father Lemmert shared a fear as well with Monsignor O'Donnell of what would become of him if Father Gentile believed him to be the whistleblower. He did not have to wait long to find out. On Dec. 2, 1996, Father Gentile wrote to Father Lemmert asking for the return of keys to the church since his services were no longer required. Two days later, Father Gentile again wrote Father Lemmert that it would be "inappropriate" for him to attend Mass and sing in the choir. Father Lemmert says he was unable to perform weddings or funerals for parishioners who asked. 
He had become a chaplain at the prison in Ossining the year before, and so had a place to worship and a job. Still, Father Lemmert said, "I couldn't step foot in the church." Only recently, with the arrival of a new pastor at Holy Name of Mary, has he felt welcome again.
When Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the Archdiocese of New York, was asked about the Nauheimer case, he said he had few answers. 
The most he could do, he said, was to confirm that Father Gentile's status in the church had not changed. He is in good standing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); LITIGATION (91%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); CIVIL ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); TESTIMONY (76%); JUDGES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); BOYCOTTS (60%); ANNULMENT (50%) SEX CRIMES; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PRIESTS 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: GENTILE, GENNARO (REV); COWAN, ALISON LEIGH; NAUHEIMER FAMILY (WESTCHESTER COUNTY, NY) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



622 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: For Europeans, Love, Yes; Marriage, Maybe 

BYLINE:  By SARAH LYALL 

DATELINE: OSLO 

 BODY:
Bjorn Lindahl and Nina Kjolaas do not feel inclined to declare their love in front of some anonymous official in a municipal building, or in a church. So they have never married -- not when they moved in together, not when they bought their first house, not when they had their son, now 16. 
 "We said that if our child were to be harassed at school, we'd think of doing it," said Mr. Lindahl, 45, who has lived with Ms. Kjolaas for 23 years. "But statistics showed that something like half the kids in Norway had parents who were single or living together." 
 Not just Norway. In a profound shift that has changed the notion of what constitutes a family in many countries, more and more European children are being born out of wedlock into a new social order in which, it seems, few of the old stigmas apply. The trend is far more pronounced in the Nordic countries, in France and in Britain, and less so in southern countries like Italy and Switzerland, but the figures as a whole are startling, particularly because they tend to hold up across all social classes. 
In Norway, for instance, 49 percent of all the births in 1999 were to unwed parents. In Iceland, the figure was 62 percent. In Britain, it was 38 percent, and in France, 41 percent, in 1998, the last year figures were available. Even in Ireland, a deeply Catholic country where divorce became legal a mere seven years ago, about 31 percent of the births in 1999 took place outside of marriage, a figure on par with that in the United States. 
Marriage in Europe is by no means obsolete; most Europeans still marry at some point in their lives, and after a precipitous drop in marriage rates throughout the 1990's, some countries have actually experienced incremental increases of late. But with changing attitudes toward religion and toward the role of the individual and the state, the questions of when -- and whether -- to marry are increasingly seen as deeply personal choices free from the traditional moral judgments of community, family or church.
Even as governments set new policies to cope with the altered arrangements, public figures in a number of countries are serving as examples themselves. 
In Britain, where the cabinet is split over whether the government should be in the business of promoting marriage, Prime Minister Tony Blair's chief spokesman, Alastair Campbell, has three children with his companion, Fiona Millar, who happens to be the chief aide to Mr. Blair's wife, Cherie. (Ms. Millar is in Mr. Campbell's "Who's Who" entry, listed as his partner.)
In Norway, Marit Arnstad, an unmarried member of Parliament, became pregnant while she served as the country's oil minister, and is now raising her son on her own. The country's own crown prince, Haakon, lived with his girlfriend, a single mother with a toddler, before marrying her last year.
"The most important thing, it seems to me, is the quality of the relationship between the members of the couple, not whether they are married or not," said Claude Martin, a sociologist who is a professor at the Institute of Political Science in Rennes, France. "Here in France there is very little difference between being married and cohabitating, and very little difference between children born out of wedlock and those that are born within marriage."
The attitude in Europe is substantially different from that in the United States, where the government recently announced that it was actively committed to promoting marriage. The British government has all but abandoned that position, acknowledging in a recent position paper that there were many alternatives to the classic family structure. 
At the same time, groups representing single parents -- generally far better off economically than their counterparts in the United States -- have become a potent political force across Europe.
Welfare policies in many countries are specifically intended to ensure that all children are given the same financial benefits and treated equally in the eyes of the law, whether their parents are married, living together, separated, divorced or single. 
"They've taken the marital status out of it and focused on the children," said Kathleen Kiernan, a professor of social policy and demography at the London School of Economics. 
Policies enacted in the last two decades by many European governments include legislation ensuring that children born out of wedlock have the same inheritance rights as other children; financial grants to the children of single parents; and the removal, in Britain, of a special tax break for married couples and an increase in cash allowances for families with children.
In Scandinavia, highly complicated living and custodial arrangements between partners, children and former couples, are common. 
"We have little commitment to the institution of marriage, that's true, but we do have a commitment to parenthood," said Kari Moxnes, a 57-year-old professor of sociology at the University of Trondheim. "It's not socially acceptable any more in Scandinavia to break the parental relationship." 
Most of the cohabiting couples she knows marry for only one reason, she said. "If you have a sabbatical in the United States, you better get married," she said, "because that's the only way your wife or husband is going to go with you for free."
In deeply religious countries like Italy, few children are born to unwed parents -- just 9 percent in 1998. But even in Italy, the old rules are breaking down. Most couples live together before marriage, and in a country where children, and fecundity, are adored, it is no longer unusual or embarrassing to see a heavily pregnant bride strolling down the aisle.
The new arrangements have thrown up all sorts of tiny awkwardnesses. "We usually say husband and wife," said Amadeo Conde, a 37-year-old graphic designer in Madrid who has been with his companion, Dawn Broadbridge, for 14 years; their son, Maximilian, is 17 months old. "We don't mind explaining, but it gets rather long to say to the doorman, 'the mother of my child.' "
Ms. Broadbridge, also 37, is an American who has found the relaxed attitudes in Madrid, where most of the couples she knows are unmarried parents, something of an eye-opener. "You would think that in a good Roman Catholic country like Spain, people would get married when they have children," she said. Meanwhile, back home in Sacramento, all her close friends went the traditional route: they married, they had children, and some divorced.
"Most people assumed that we would get married before we had children," Ms. Broadbridge said. "My mom has probably lied to some of her friends -- well, not lied, but not told the complete truth." 
Eric Larrayadieu, a photographer in France, has not married his girlfriend, Olivia, after more than three years of living together and the birth of Marius, their 6-month-old son.
"Just as it's not possible to make wine without the ground and the grapevines, the two of us are together and we made a very good wine, and it's called Marius," Mr. Larrayadieu said. "Probably the child is the best wedding we could have together." 
But the two are now considering marrying, purely for practical reasons -- they want to ensure legal and financial protection for the family if one of them dies or falls ill. In France, as in most countries, a surviving live-in partner has no automatic inheritance rights.
Many of the couples decide to split up, of course, and the result has been a significant rise in single parents, most of them mothers.
In the Scandinavian countries, in particular, such women tend to be educated and employed. Buoyed in part by policies that allow them substantial financial grants even when they return to work, single mothers in many European countries are considerably better off than in the United States, where some 45 percent to 50 percent of single mothers live beneath the poverty line. 
"As a single mother, you don't have to be ashamed anymore," said Kathrine Lorenz, 35, a child psychologist in Oslo. She is rearing her 3-year-old daughter alone; her former partner, who already had three children by two other women, left her when she became pregnant. (By law, he is obligated to pay 28 percent of his income to the four children.) 
Ms. Lorenz was reared by a single mother, too, after her parents divorced when she was 5. Her mother, she said, was ashamed and could not work; Ms. Lorenz was taunted at school. "But our children don't hear this. It's much more normal now." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); RELIGION (78%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); PARENTS (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (60%) ILLEGITIMACY; MARRIAGES; LIFE STYLES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POPULATION 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (51%) LYALL, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (79%) NORWAY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); ICELAND (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (77%) EUROPE; NORWAY; ICELAND; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; ITALY; IRELAND

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



623 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Crime-Fighting By Computer: Scope Widens 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM 

 BODY:
New York City's renowned Compstat crime-fighting program, originally created to measure and map serious crime in city neighborhoods, has grown into a sweeping data-collection machine that traces hundreds of factors, many of which appear distant from the nuts and bolts of police work.
 The system, introduced in 1994 to focus largely on the seven major crime categories, has changed in ways both substantial and subtle, and now records 734 of what officials call indicators: everything from concentrations of prostitutes to police overtime, allegations of abuse by officers and how often police commanders meet with community leaders. 
 The expansion reflects an acknowledgment that fighting crime is not just about finding criminals and arresting them, but about enlisting the support of communities and finding a way to do it economically.
In effect, Compstat has become an intricate map of the city and its ills -- the annoying and the deadly -- and an abacus upon which officials can calculate how the Police Department is working to alleviate them. 
Gone are the days when murder, rape, robbery, assault, burglary, grand larceny and auto theft were the central focus of searing Compstat meetings in a cavernous room on the eighth floor of 1 Police Plaza.
Under the current commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, Compstat has further evolved, focusing also on minor offenses that can have a major impact on the quality of city life: panhandling, squeegee men, loud parties and barking dogs. And the weekly meetings have become more collegial, with an atmosphere, Mr. Kelly said, in which commanders are often put on the spot but spared the abuse that many glumly suffered in years past.
"It's been broadened, and again, it is more collaborative, in the sense that we're trying to share information as to what was done by other commands to address problems," said Mr. Kelly, who took over the force in January in his second tour as commissioner.
Compstat has long been admired nationally and internationally; the system has been used by cities like Baltimore, and Caracas, Venezuela, plans to use it. The concept has also been copied in its hometown, where it has been brought into other agencies like the Sanitation and Correction Departments, and where Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is considering using it to measure the effectiveness of other city agencies.
The innovation was created and developed under William J. Bratton, the police commissioner from 1994 to 1996, the first two years of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's administration; one of the primary architects of the program was Jack Maple, Mr. Bratton's deputy commissioner for crime control strategies. Mr. Maple died of cancer last summer.
Mr. Bratton used Compstat to direct swift deployments of officers to areas with high concentrations of crime and to hold commanders accountable for crime problems in their precincts. 
His approach turned into a police philosophy that changed the way departments across America and in other parts of the world serve their communities, drawing a nonstop procession of police commanders and government officials from as far away as China and Chile.
Soon after it was introduced, it became part of the culture at 1 Police Plaza: twice-weekly meetings in which local commanders were pushed, prodded and sometimes humiliated by senior officials who pinpointed crime problems on their streets and broadcast their failings. 
Mr. Bratton defended the aggressive nature of the sessions in the early days, arguing that precinct commanders were making $80,000 a year. "If they can't deal with the pressure of that room, you can be damn sure they can't deal with pressure out there on the street," he said.
Mr. Kelly, however, said he felt that commanders, who are each running what he called the equivalent of a $30 million to $40 million business, "shouldn't be abused, they should be treated with dignity and respect, while held accountable for what happens on their watch."
Eli B. Silverman, a professor at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice and the author of "NYPD Battles Crime: Innovative Strategies in Policing," said a certain amount of pressure was required in the program's early days. "My own view was that in the beginning it needed to be very forceful because you were starting something very different," he said. 
Mr. Kelly, who has made upgrading department technology a priority, says he hopes to use teleconferencing to broadcast the now weekly meetings to officials in boroughs beyond the one under scrutiny each week.
And, it seems, there is much to learn. Mr. Kelly said the meetings now focused on the number of precinct arrests that were made by officers on overtime patrols, part of an effort to reduce costs and ensure that enforcement is driven by crime rather than an officer's desire for more overtime.
Compstat now also measures emergency response time, conditions in police station houses and how many police cars are available for patrol and how quickly those in need of repairs are turned around in the department's shops.
The system also records the number of corruption allegations and civilian complaints of police abuse in each precinct, which along with community relations are important indicators of how a department serves the people, according to Mark H. Moore, a professor of criminal justice policy and management at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Professor Moore, who has been studying methods to measure police performance for five years, contends that crime reductions alone provide an incomplete picture of a police department.
He maintains that a police force's performance -- or "profits" -- can be accurately gauged only by factoring in the "costs" of police operations: not only the financial costs, but the toll that police operations take on community relations, or how the department's use of authority impinges on citizens' liberties.
"The degree that people feel alienated by the police is the degree to which they are reluctant to cooperate with them, something that makes the work of the police more difficult," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Raymond Kelly 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIOLENT CRIME (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BURGLARY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); CITIES (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); MURDER (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); VEHICLE THEFT (73%); ARRESTS (73%); ROBBERY (72%); PANHANDLING (69%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (55%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%); RUDY GIULIANI (59%) KELLY, RAYMOND W (COMR); RASHBAUM, WILLIAM K 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



624 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: SECURITY; 
U.N. Reviews Plans to Protect Its Offices Around the World

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, March 22 

 BODY:
Reinforced fences. Bulletproof partitions. Electronic monitors and alarms. Sensors to detect gas and chemical attacks. Stockpiles of biohazard gear. Blastproof trash cans. 
 Having provided a public forum for countries uniting to fight terrorism, the United Nations is now looking at ways to make itself more impregnable to terrorists. 
 A report by Secretary General Kofi Annan released Friday has proposed such new precautions to protect the United Nations headquarters in New York, regional centers in Geneva and Vienna and other buildings whose prominence makes them tempting targets.
The new proposals emerged from a review ordered last fall by Mr. Annan to identify security weaknesses in the wake of the attacks on the World Trade Center, less than four miles south of the United Nations. The secretariat was twice evacuated, then closed down on Sept. 11 while the twin towers blazed and collapsed. 
"The assessment of conditions of the United Nations premises in New York, Geneva and Vienna," the secretary general's report said, "has indicated a need for substantial strengthening of security protection to ensure adequate coverage during sessions of the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council and their subsidiary organs and when United Nations headquarters are visited by heads of state governments." 
Nearly $3.6 million was carved from the last budget to finance immediate needs, like the creation of an emergency command center.
The proposed new security expenses would add $57.8 million to the 2002-2003 budget. The expenses must be approved by the General Assembly, which recently slashed $75 million from the two-year budget, forcing cutbacks in heating, cleaning services, computer support and other services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); APPROVALS (71%) SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC & SOCIAL COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); WREN, CHRISTOPHER S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



625 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Comeback Effort in Once-Grand Newark Suburb 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD LEZIN JONES 

DATELINE: EAST ORANGE, N.J., March 23 

 BODY:
The marble is expected any day now. It's imported. From Italy, no less. The new door will be oak and huge and inlaid with a looping, ornate wrought-iron design.
 And the piece de resistance? Larry McNeil, standing in a dust-caked hallway of the five-story apartment building on Prospect Street that is under renovation around him, leans in close and whispers conspiratorially, "We're completely wired for D.S.L." 
 There are building renovations, and then there is this labor of love, where devotion is in the details of floor tiles, doorjambs and the latest in Internet connections. Especially noteworthy, however, is the fact that Mr. McNeil, a real estate developer, is renovating a building here in East Orange, a troubled city of 70,000 just west of Newark. "This place was beautiful and it will be again," Mr. McNeil said last week, studying the exposed wiring and orange plastic pipes jutting from one ceiling while giving a tour of the building. "But I'll tell you, it was a real mess."
Not long ago, it would not have been a stretch to suggest the same about the bleakness just outside the door. Once known as "the Fifth Avenue of New Jersey," East Orange spiraled into decay during three decades of high crime, failing schools and political infighting.
Now, two and a half years after the state seized control of city finances, East Orange is beginning to show signs of improvement. The city has posted budget surpluses for two years running, and last fall, the state quietly returned control of the $118 million budget to city officials. There is more harmony between the mayor and the 10-member City Council than there has been in years. And a series of auctions of abandoned and foreclosed city-owned properties has brought millions of dollars into the city's treasury and fueled a wave of real estate development by investors like Mr. McNeil.
To be sure, East Orange still has problems. It is one of New Jersey's five so-called distressed cities, making it eligible for special state aid in exchange for allowing greater state examination of its books. Crime is still a crucial issue, and the poor performance of city schools is as vexing as ever. However, some officials suggest that East Orange is undergoing a modest revival.
"There is growing interest in redevelopment in East Orange, and the city has a good management team in place," said E. J. Miranda, a spokesman for the state's Department of Community Affairs.
Whatever gains East Orange has made can be attributed largely to the city's two-term mayor, Robert L. Bowser, who acknowledges that there is much more to be done.
"It's about incremental success," he said. "We've almost turned the corner on the finances, we're working together with City Council. People can see that the city is moving forward."
Perhaps the most tangible sign of that movement has been the interest in property development. For years, East Orange was far from a first choice for New Jersey real estate developers. But more than 300 people -- four times the number expected -- attended an auction at East Orange City Hall last month, during which 16 residential properties were sold for $1.6 million. Another, involving 10 properties and 193 individual condominium units, is scheduled for Thursday.
In addition, a $17 million apartment and retail complex is under construction along Main Street, and a $6.5 million, five-story apartment complex -- believed to be the first new luxury apartments in the city in half a century -- is being built by Mr. McNeil across the street from Orange Park.
But despite such developments, many remain dubious that East Orange can return to its glory days.
"You can see buildings going up, but you can't change the demographics of the people in the city," said Mary A. Boutilier, a political science professor at Seton Hall University who has lived in East Orange for three decades.
Dr. Boutilier said she had heard talk before of a renewal for East Orange. "Everyone who says commerce will come, that people will stop here to shop -- it just seems a little far-fetched," she said.
She added, "The fact is that you can't change the place."
The place is a 3.9-square-mile sliver wedged between Newark and Orange. Over the last 30 years, residents have left the city in droves -- a trend that continued in the 1990's, according to the most recent census data, which showed that the population fell by about 5 percent, or 3,600 people, in the last decade. During the 1980's alone, the city bled 2,000 households.
Other demographic shifts are just as striking. East Orange, which is about 90 percent black, lost nearly half of its white population in the 1980's, and white residents make up just under 4 percent of the population. More than half of the households with children under 18 are headed by single women. And just under a tenth of its housing stock lies vacant.
That is a far cry from its prewar heyday, when the population topped 90,000 and the city's grand avenues and towering apartment buildings bustled. "We had 16 insurance companies; now there are 2," Mr. Bowser said. "We had four or five movie theaters, four or five car dealers, six banks. That's all gone now."
The decline, residents and scholars say, can be traced to the twin traumas of the 1967 Newark riot, which spilled over into East Orange, and the construction of Interstate 280, which bisects the town, in the mid-1970's.
But today, developers like Larry McNeil are betting that a recovery is possible. Besides the $6.5 million that his company, Trylon/Crest Construction, has pumped into the luxury apartment project near Orange Park, he has put millions more into the renovation of the 53-unit luxury apartment building on Prospect Street.
He bought the building at a city auction last May for $550,000, and expects it to be open in the next few months.
"If you look at the way the demographics have developed over the past couple of years with people coming out of New York -- to Jersey City, Hoboken, Newark," he said, "what's the next natural progression in terms of moving? That's the city of East Orange."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Robert L. Bowser of East Orange, with Phyllis L. Burrell, the city's auction coordinator.; Larry McNeil, a builder, predicts that new residents will soon be drawn to East Orange the way they have been to Jersey City and Hoboken. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) Map of New Jersey highlighting East Orange: East Orange was once known as the "Fifth Avenue of New Jersey."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (88%); BUDGETS (86%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (70%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

PERSON: JONES, RICHARD LEZIN; BOWSER, ROBERT L (MAYOR); MCNEIL, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) EAST ORANGE (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



626 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
MURPHY, CHARLES H.

 BODY:
MURPHY -Charles H., 82. Died at his home in El Dorado, Arkansas March 20, 2002. His wife, Johnie Walker Murphy, preceded him in death; surviving him are: four children; Michael Walker Murphy, Martha Wilson Murphy, Charles Haywood Murphy, III, and Robert Madison Murphy; three sisters, Theodosia Murphy Nolan, Caroline Murphy Winter, and Bertie Murphy Smith; and eight grandchildren. He was born in El Dorado March 6, 1920, the son of Charles Haywood Murphy, Sr. and Bertie Wilson Murphy. Charles Murphy is best remembered as an oilman. His father had him manumitted by court order at the age of sixteen so he could legally transact business for himself, and he entered the petroleum industry on his own as an independent while still in his teens. At the age of twenty-one he assumed full managerial responsibility for his family's business, consisting primarily of oil production, farming and timber lands scattered across Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. For the next fifty-three years (except for three years' service in the U.S. Army infantry during World War II) he devoted his considerable energy to building this business into an international oil company that has been active on every continent except Antarctica. It is now a public company, of which the family still owns some 25%, and it still bears the family name, Murphy Oil Corporation. It is ranked by Fortune and Forbes magazines on some of their various measures as from the 312th to the 370th largest industrial concerns in the United States. 
Charles Murphy served this organization, under various titles, as its Chief Executive Officer until 1986 and continued as Chairman of the Board until 1994. While building Murphy Oil, Charles Murphy did not forsake his heritage as a banker. He succeeded his father as a major shareholder and dominant force in the First National Bank of El Dorado, which later became part of a group of banks owned by First United Bancshares, which Charles Murphy served as Chairman of the Board. This group of banks has now been succeeded by BancorpSouth Banc. Additionally, Murphy was a major investor in First Commercial Corporation, a significant regional bank holding company, where he served as Chairman of the Executive Committee. First Commercial has now become part of Regions Bank. Less public attention has been focused on Charles Murphy's career as an educator and philanthropist. This is the way he wanted it. He served seventeen years on the Arkansas Board of Higher Education, where he was instrumental in beginning the drive to improve the quality of public education in Arkansas. At the same time, he was dedicated to the improvement of private education as well, and gave generously of his time and money in this cause. He served ten years as a trustee of Hendrix College, where he and his family established the Hendrix Murphy Foundation, providing financial support to the institution. He also served on the Board of Administrators of Tulane University, where he and his family established the Tulane Murphy Foundation and the Murphy Institute of Political Economy. The Murphy Foundation, established by Charles Murphy, his wife, and his mother, provides financial support to both public and private institutions of learning, as well as scholarships to enable students to pursue higher education. For his service in the field of education, Murphy was recognized with an honorary Doctor of Laws degree by the University of Arkansas in 1966. (continued next column) 
 Charles Murphy's service to education did not consist only of serving on boards and giving money. He was active as a teacher and lecturer, without fee, on a broad range of subjects, to a variety of audiences. Examples of the breadth and scope of his lectures include: "The Effect of Environment on Business Strategy" given at the University of Geneva, Switzerland, "Energy Alternatives for the Mid21st Century" at the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C., and "Reading, Writing, and Thinking" at El Dorado High School, El Dorado, Arkansas. That he was able to deal with such a range of subjects is due not only to his powerful intellect, but also to the manner of his education. His classroom education ended with his graduation from High School at Gulf Coast Military Academy at the age of sixteen, but his education continued throughout his life. As a young person he was taught languages, philosophy, history and science in the classical way by tutors, and as an adult he pursued his education by prodigious reading. Charles Murphy is recognized as a scholar by other scholars. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee, widow of the renowned historian, once introduced him as the only person who ever changed her husband's mind. Charles Murphy's public service encompassed more than the field of education. He served his country and his industry and often sought to bridge gaps between different points of view. He served ten years on the National Petroleum Council, including as its Chairman. The Council was established by the United States Government during World War II as a group of leading oilmen to advise the government on matters pertaining to strategic petroleum supply. He also served for ten years and chaired the American Petroleum Institute Conservation Liaison Committee. This committee laid the groundwork for some of today's far reaching petroleum industry environmental programs. For his service he received a citation for Outstanding Individual Service to Natural Resource Management from the National Wildlife Federation. Charles Murphy served his industry through membership on the American Petroleum Institute Board of Directors and its Executive Committee and Management Committee. This group honored him with election as President of its prestigious 25 Year Club and an honorary life membership on the Board of Directors. He was also instrumental in the founding of the National Ocean Industries Association, representing many diverse interests in the use and conservation of ocean resources. Like other facets of his life, Charles Murphy's public service board memberships reflect a broad range-in addition to those already mentioned, he has served on the Board of Governors of the Oschner Medical Foundation, the National Advisory Board of the Smithsonian Institution and the Louisiana Governor's Council on Economic Development. Charles Murphy was at ease with people from all walks of life, from Presidents and Prime Ministers, Kings and Princes, to roughnecks and roustabouts and service station attendants, and he was invariably courteous and charming to all. He was a citizen of the world, with friends and acquaintances in every part of the globe, but he never forgot his roots, his friends included Sam Rayburn, Lyndon Johnson, H. L. Hunt (and his family), Lloyd Bentsen and George Bush, of Texas; Russell Long, John McKeithen, Jimmy Noe, and Bennett Johnston, of Louisiana: Robert Kerr, Dean McGee, Carl Albert, and David Boren, of Oklahoma; and Witt and Jack Stephens, Chesley Pruet, John L. McClellan, William Fulbright, Wilbur Mills, Oren Harris, Sam Walton, Robert E. Lee Wilson, Dale Bumpers, David Pryor, Ray Thornton, Jay Dickey, Bill Clinton and Mike Huckabee, of Arkansas. He was on personal terms with every President of the United States from Truman to George W. Bush and his acquaintanceships extended to such diverse contemporary historic figures as James Schlessinger, Lady Margaret Thatcher and the Shah of Iran. When he discovered an oil field on tribal Indian land in Eastern Montana, he was inducted into the Assiniboine-Sioux Tribe and made a honorary chief, and he accepted this honor with the same grace as he accepted an honorary LLD from the University of Arkansas, the Roughneck of the Year Award from the American Petroleum Institute 25 Year Club, and an invitation to conduct a petroleum economics seminar for the National Iranian Oil Company following the Iranian Revolution. He responded with equal courtesy and thoughtfulness to requests for advice from Presidents, Cabinet Secretaries, OPEC Oil Ministers, and the widows of former employees. Charles Murphy left his mark on the times in which he lived. His son Madison said "The world is left a much duller place by his passing." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); ARMIES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); WORLD WAR II (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); PHILANTHROPY (64%); CHARITIES (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%) 

COMPANY: FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF EL DORADO (84%); MURPHY OIL CORP (82%); REGIONS FINANCIAL CORP (81%); BANCORPSOUTH INC (53%)

TICKER: MUR (NYSE) (82%); RF (NYSE) (81%); BXS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: MURPHY, CHARLES H. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ANTARCTICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



627 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 13; Column 1; Television; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: COVER STORY; 
A Bunny Who Hops to a Different Drummer

BYLINE:  By ANITA GATES 

 BODY:
I DIDN'T have a chance to talk to Greg the Bunny in person. Scheduling and travel conflicts, I think. But I did spend some time with him by telephone from his new Los Angeles quarters, where he seemed elated about his move into the big time. His namesake series has its premiere on Fox on Wednesday night.
 "I got two words for you: craft services," said Greg, using the insider show business term for food on the set. "I have never seen so many jelly beans in all my life." (Purple and orange are his favorite.) And his confidence in his talent is building. "I think you learn by doing," he said. "And I've done a lot of doing and in doing all the doing I've done - I'm good. I'm De Niro good." 
 The world Greg lives in is a little different from ours. The 3.2 million puppets who reside in his United States are very real and suffer from economic and social discrimination. They prefer to be called Fabricated Americans and often refer to humans as Fleshies.
 At the beginning of the first episode, Greg, who has a human roommate (Seth Green), is umemployed. he begs his roommate to help him (well, actually he just tortures him by repeating his name - "Jimmy Jimmy Jimmy Jimmy Jimmy" - roughly a zillion times until Jimmy breaks down and calls his father, Gil, the director of "Sweetknuckle Junction," a cheesy children's television show). Gil, played by Eugene Levy, says O.K., the bunny can interview for an office job.
 But just as Greg is arriving at the studio, the "Sweetknuckle" people are looking for a replacement for Rochester, an aging white bunny who can't remember his lines. They mistake Greg for an actor and he's so adorable that he's hired. "He's cute," says a network executive (Sarah Silverman), "he's quick, and his improv is like Robin Williams." (Some people have already compared the new series to "The Larry Sanders Show.")
 Still, life isn't simple for Greg. In the second episode, Jimmy's new girlfriend brings over a huge dog who attacks Greg, and naturally the owner can'ts believe her pet could be violent. "You must have been taunting him," she says. Greg looks at her and responds, "Oh, you know, you should be a rape counselor."
 In another episode, Greg is approached by a famous, flamboyant puppets' rights leader. And, of course, when Greg's consciousness about his heritage is raised, he starts going by his Puppish name ("Greg is a name the flesh people gave you," he is told), objecting to jokes that make puppets look stupid and wearing an ancestral outfit on the set. When Gil objects to his making a political statement on the air, Greg asks, "How can my puppet clothes not work for my puppet character?"
 Obviously, "Greg the Bunny" is pretty political itself. When, in the third episode, Gil says, "This is the Fozzie Bear verdict all over again," only 3-year-olds may be puzzled by the allusion. It will be interesting to see if network viewers see the show as refreshingly honest or as prejudice hiding behind humor.
 "It's pure satire," said Dan Milano, Greg's voice and one of his creators. "We're just having fun with it. I don't think there's a deeper meaning."
 "But I would say if there were puppets in this world, this is what they would be suffering with," he said. "The only jobs they could get would be kiddie shows and birthday parties." And eventually, he added, they'd just be "going in and out of Betty Ford."
 Mr. Milano, 29, and a fellow New York University film school graduate, Spencer Chinoy, also 29, created Greg five years ago. After working at film and television production assistants' jobs that left them cold, Mr. Chinoy was teaching PhotoShop and Mr. Milano was doing administrative work for a Time Warner security department. The two young men were always taping weird things they saw on cable, and along with Sean Baker (who has since left the project) decided to put them together to make a public access television show in Manhattan.
 The way Mr. Milano tells the story, none of them wanted to be the host and he had done puppet shows for his family since he was a child so they invented Greg. Both he and the show, "Junktape," became cult favorites, he said. IFC, the Independent Film Channel, took notice and gave Greg 5- to 10- minute cinema verite slots right before the evening movie. Then they went to Hollywood looking for new opportunities and Fox ordered 13 episodes.
 Greg's lovable, marketable personality developed through improvisation. "He was neurotic and needy and desperate and perfect for public access," said Mr. Milano. "And he loved the opportunity."
 Greg was going through hard times in the 1990's. "Living in New York, I was doing street performances, trying to get my PAG card, the Puppet Actors Guild - juggling in the park," he said. "Kids would try to pick me up and play with me. Dogs. Pigeons." (Mr. Milano deserves, "If puppets are a mirror of humanity, it's the side that's afraid of getting stepped on.")
 Not everyone is sure Greg will handle stardom well. "I think he's bipolar," confides Steven Levitan, the creator of the sitcom "Just Shoot Me" who worked with the original creators to turn "Greg the Bunny" into a half-hour series. "But I think he's a wonderful character. I strangely think that women will fall in love with him."
 If that's true, Greg wouldn't mind. "I'm sort of between relationships right now," he confessed, although he did have "a little tryst with Lamb Chop."
 "She looks damn good," he said of Lamb Chop, Shari Lewis's woolly 45-year-old puppet. "I don't know who did her stitching." Human women are attracted to greg, too, he said, but then they only want to cuddle.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the cover: Greg getting ready for his debut. (Fox)(pg. 1); Greg the Bunny with Eugene Levy (above) as Gil Bender; Dina Waters (right) as Dottie Sunshine; and Seth Green (opposite page) as Jimmy Bender (Photographs from Fox) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (77%); INTERVIEWS (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (63%); DISCRIMINATION (52%) TELEVISION; PUPPETS 

ORGANIZATION: FOX BROADCASTING CO 

PERSON: GATES, ANITA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%)

TITLE: GREG THE BUNNY (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



628 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Slow Recovery for Black-Car Drivers

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton

 BODY:
TO understand the long-lasting economic aftershocks of Sept. 11, you can pore through reams of data and stacks of reports. Or, you can talk to Tony Limo.
 Mr. Limo (technically, he's really Mr. Correa) is the proud prossessor of a Cadillac Brougham and has spent the past five years as a "black-car driver" for Grand Transportation of New York, ferrying mostly corporate clients to airports and to appointments and to far-flung homes late at night. 
 But he is not driving now, basically because of financial woes.
 And he is not alone. After Sept. 11, so many drivers quit that the dispatchers are now searching for replacements, even though business is still down by more than 20 percent compared with a year ago, said Victor Dizengoff, executive director of the industry's trade association, the Black Car Assistance Corporation.
 And those that are still working are struggling. Accion New York, a nonprofit group that lends money to small entrepreneurs, has been getting as many as 60 phone calls a day from drivers who are afraid they are going to lose their cars - or their homes, said Lindy Miller, a loan officer for the group.
 Accion has set up a special program for drivers whose business collapsed along with the World Trade Center, and has already made 51 loans, averaging $5,700 each, said Megan Watkins, another loan officer.
 Black-car drivers are "mobile independent contractors," as Mr. Correa puts it. They own their cars - which must be beig, luxurious and in top condition - and pay for gasoline, insurance, garages and the like. They also pay perhaps a third of their revenues to their bases, which dispatch them to pick up customers and bill the corporate clients for the fares.
 Most of the drivers these days are immigrants from all over the planet, most particularly from Pakistan. Mr. Correa is unusual in that he's a native New Yorker, and English - not Urdu or Russian or Arabic - is his native lanugage. But his story is similar to those of many other drivers for the black-car services.
 Before Sept. 11, Mr. Correa usually worked a 12-hour shift, "8 to 10 trips, if traffic was good," he said. His busiest time, he said, was after 7 o'clock at night, when the law firms and investment banks and corporation that hire the car services allow employees to use them to go home.
 Business had slowed down last summer, he said, but then it was always slow in the summer. "Labor Day starts it up again, and winter is our season," he said. "Unfortunately, 9/11 took away that season."
 For six weeks, there was almost no work. Downtown was impassable, traffic at the bridges and tunnels was at a standstill, and some customers had relocated to New Jersey or Connecticut. Even by December, business was off by 60 percent, Mr. Correa said.
 Meanwhile, he had to spend several thousand dollars a montht to cover his costs: the car payment, the insurance, the garage, the base. Like other drivers, Mr. Correa said he had to make at least $300 a day just to cover his costs.
 He used up all his savings. He borrowed all he could. He applied for a loan from Small Business Administration and was turned down, a situation that appears to be common among drivers and which frustrates them. "In my opinion, we should have gotten the same kind of help that the airlines did," Mr. Correa said.
 Then March began to loom. That's when drivers must spend close to a thousand dollars on vehicle registration and for-hire licenses. It's also when they have to renew their insurance policies.
 And this year, the premiums have been soaring, said Matthew W. Daus, the chairman of the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission. "The insurance issue is one we're very, very concerned about," he said, adding that he was discussing the problems with state insurance regulators.
 In Mr. Correa's case, the premium jumped to $7,200 a year from $4,600. He couldn't even cover the deposit. He had to turn in his plates.
 Mr. Correa turned to Accion. "They saved my life," he said. The group gave him a loan and arranged a grant from World Vision, a Christian relief and development group. He bought his insurance. He hopes to get his license processed in a couple of weeks and be back on the road next month.
 Meanwhile, he has been hearing from other drivers that the business has been coming back a little in the past month. Despite the higher costs he faces, "I'm sure I'm going to make it through," he said. "It just means working three times as hard."

 This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tony Correa, a k a Tony Limo, hopes to be driving again next month. Like many other black-car drivers, he has been forced off the street by slow business since Sept. 11. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); US LABOR DAY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (65%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (64%); RELOCATIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



629 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2459 words

HEADLINE: Primedia's Improbable DigitalDreams 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR and LORNE MANLY 

 BODY:
PUSHING the elevator button to get to Primedia's offices on the 23rd floor at 745 Fifth Avenue, a block and a half south of Central Park, is like hitting a reset button to spring of 2000, back when digital enterprises were selling for unthinkable multiples. In these corridors, the old buzzwords linger, the traditional metrics do not apply, the PowerPoint diagrams always envelop the consumer, and the monetization of traffic -- remember traffic? -- lies just around the corner. 
 The man in charge is Tom Rogers, Primedia's supremely self-confident chief executive and digital evangelist, who made a huge bet on transforming an old-line publisher with a line of unrelated media properties -- including magazines like New York, Seventeen and National Hog Farmer -- into what he calls an integrated, old-media-new-media enterprise. 
 Mr. Rogers is the last true believer. A former General Electric executive who has spent his career counterintuiting convention in the media industry (he championed CNBC), he continues to engage in the kind of robust digital rhetoric that has others cringing. 
"There are thousands -- thousands upon thousands -- of advertisers that are buying new-media digital components to marketing programs," Mr. Rogers said, the drizzle and low clouds floating in the window behind him giving his words a mystical air.
But while the bubble that lives inside Mr. Rogers's head never popped, more than one bubble has popped out in the rest of the world, and it has left him little room to maneuver. Not only has the digital landscape been denuded of financing and advertising, the magazine publishing business, which even Mr. Rogers would acknowledge is at the core of his company, is awful. As a result, Primedia is laboring under a crushing debt, flat earnings and a depressed stock price that has Mr. Rogers selling assets, cutting costs and madly spinning Wall Street. Primedia's majority investor, Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company, is standing by Mr. Rogers. But Kohlberg Kravis's on-call consultant, Capstone Consulting, recently stepped in to assess exactly what is going on with Kohlberg's nearly $1 billion investment.
Unless the ad market recovers fast, however, the consultants have few options to suggest other than more layoffs and asset sales. People who covet some of Primedia's prized properties, like New York and Seventeen, are poised like crows on a telephone wire, hoping to swoop in and grab magazines Mr. Rogers can't afford to own. He may be a victim of questionable decisions, bad luck and bad timing, but he says he does not believe he is living in the past. He is too busy building the future.
At the moment, Mr. Rogers is defending himself against the accusation that he bet the company on a digital future and lost. He and Primedia officials contend, for example, that his decision to buy About.com, a collection of special-interest Web sites, in the fall of 2000 was perfectly timed, that his trading of ads for equity in now worthless digital enterprises was actually quite crafty and that his vision of an integrated media company built out of an odd collection of business and enthusiast magazines remains brilliant, if somewhat nascent.
"This is not a future strategy," Mr. Rogers said. "This is a here-and-now reality in terms of how we are approaching the marketplace and using incremental revenue to drive our market share."
Back down the elevator and out on the street, the market is delivering a different message. Mr. Rogers was hired to supercharge Primedia and to get it valued as an Internet company. He has succeeded only too well. From a high of $34.88 in early 2000, the stock closed on Friday at $3.18.
The combination of that stock price and $2.54 billion in debt has hamstrung the company, and Mr. Rogers is being forced to manage more by circumstance than strategy, keeping the debt at bay without mortgaging the future.
When he is on a roll, Mr. Rogers tends to sound like a high-octane mix of Jack Welch, the former G.E. chairman, and Robert Pittman, AOL Time Warner's chief operating officer. But while it is easy to talk about digital synergies between Warner Music and AOL, coming up with the overlay that connects Hay and Forage Grower with New York magazine is a little more difficult.
Mr. Rogers inherited an ornery beast indeed. Few publishing companies have both consumer magazines and trade publications, as Primedia does, because the business models and infrastructure needs, from circulation to ad sales, diverge significantly. And Primedia's consumer guide division, which consists of free directories filled with classified ads, like Apartment Guides, has another, totally different business model. 
THERE are other problem areas, too. The best known of Primedia's television businesses, Channel One, a news network for high-school classrooms, is struggling. It needs hundreds of millions of dollars to upgrade the television sets it provides to the schools that show its advertising. Primedia would clearly welcome a strategic partner to shoulder the bulk of those costs.
"The company is walking a very fine line in terms of financial viability, in terms of both excessive financial leverage and the worst magazine operation environment in the last 40 years," said Peter Appert at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "They have to thread the needle."
The dissonance between Mr. Rogers's vision and Wall Street's verdict threatens the investment of the majority owner, Kohlberg Kravis, which has put more money into Primedia than anything except RJR Nabisco. Little has gone right since Henry Kravis, the firm's boss, ushered out Mr. Rogers's predecessor, William F. Reilly, in 1999, because he was upset with a stock price in the teens and Mr. Reilly's unwillingness to embrace the Internet. Now those old-media days are looking mighty good. 
Mr. Rogers said strength in the company's special-interest consumer magazines, rapid growth in its consumer classified ad publications and declining costs in its Internet outlays will allow Primedia to reduce the debt -- and to soar when the advertising economy recovers.
"We have come up with a way of maximizing growth while minimizing the spending of cash," Mr. Rogers said, arguing that cross-pollination of old and new media will add momentum to both. "There is no metric to value an integrated traditional-media-new-media company."
Mr. Rogers says the press and the Street do not truly understand the company. But the reason Primedia gets no respect is that the company has failed to meet expectations it has created.
"When Tom Rogers came in, there was a lot of excitement and he gave explicit and aggressive guidance, which the company subsequently missed," said David Allen, a fixed-income analyst at Morgan Stanley, noting that the company failed to hit any of its quarterly targets last year.
Wall Street may overlook one-time misses, particularly when the economy slides into recession, but constant surprises from a highly leveraged company are not likely to be forgiven. Especially when the size of the miss is so large. 
For 2001, Mr. Rogers originally promised that Primedia would deliver $325 million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, a common method of measuring media company performance. That would have amounted to a 30 percent increase over the previous year. By August, when it spent $515 million to acquire the United States holdings of Emap -- the owner of special-interest magazines like Motor Trend and Hot Rod -- Primedia had scaled back its guidance to a range of $280 million to $300 million. But when it announced its full-year numbers last month, Ebitda from continuing business topped out at $200.1 million on revenue of $1.7 billion.
That history makes analysts and investors just a mite nervous about this year's projections. Primedia has released estimates of full-year Ebitda that fall between $245 million and $260 million. The low end of that range just happens to cover the company's fixed payment costs this year, including $144 million in interest payments and $53 million of cash preferred dividends. Unfortunately, some analysts fear that Primedia's Ebitda will not be enough to cover those payments.
Primedia says its first-quarter Ebitda will be $30 million, meaning the rest of the year will need to account for 88 percent of the company's earnings. But no recent nine-month period in the company's history has accounted for more than 80 percent of a year's total. 
If Primedia misses, it will not be in jeopardy -- it has about $220 million in cash and unused credit lines, and there is no major debt repayment until June 2004. But another big earnings flop will be punished severely by the markets. 
"We said $245 million to $260 million," Mr. Rogers said flatly, adding that a full year of Emap earnings and cost savings would get Primedia there. "That is 22 to 30 percent growth. That is a big number. A lot of analysts think that is pretty aggressive and have us down at $220 million, which is 10 percent growth in a very down environment. If they are right, that is 10 percent growth. If we are right, that is 30 percent growth."
To keep a promise to Wall Street, meanwhile, that he would shed $250 million in debt, Mr. Rogers is trying to find a buyer for Primedia's gun and photography magazines. He has already sold $157 million in assets, including Bacon's Information and Modern Bride. And while the company denies that it plans to sell Channel One, it does say a strategic partner would be nice.
THERE are still believers out there who envision Primedia reaching the other side of the ad recession with an intact mix of potentially profitable enterprises. "I feel very comfortable with the company and with the current management," said Sam Shapiro of Shapiro Capital Management. "We own 11 million shares and are very comfortable with that position."
Mr. Kravis and his firm also say they are fully behind the strategy of Mr. Rogers and his team. "It's a work in process, made more challenging as the industry is in the midst of one of the worst advertising downturns in years," Mr. Kravis said in a statement. "However, K.K.R. remains confident that Primedia is on the right track and we are committed to the company for the long term."
There are investors who remain optimistic about Mr. Rogers's signature strategic move: the merger with About.com. The timing and price of the purchase was unquestionably bad, but there was some logic behind combining forces with an Internet company that created content from readers deeply interested in particular topics. The "theory of the case," a phrase that Mr. Rogers, a former lawyer, is fond of using, suggested that Primedia's primary business of serving people with specific passions would be a wonderful fit with About's huge traffic.
Fifty of its more than 200 magazines have About sites, and another 50 are coming soon. There has been a 45 percent increase in page views and unique visitors on the magazine sites, and the company expects ad revenue for 2002 to be up 70 percent over last year on a cash basis. The company expects to book several million dollars in digital revenue for its enthusiast sites alone. Important franchises like American Baby and Seventeen are doing package deals involving print, television, live events and the Web, according to the company.
About and Primedia's Web holdings are the fifth-most-visited site on the Web, according to the Jupiter Media Metrix numbers for Web use in the United States for January. But it is hard to see how that gusher of clicks comes with any viable business model that justifies the cost of the deal, a stock transaction worth $690 million when it was announced in October 2000 but $428 million by the time it closed the next February. Mr. Rogers says the company got crucial digital capacity without laying out cash it did not have and acquired $109 million in cash at the same time. But analysts say the deal diluted the value of the stock by as much as one-third.
At the time of the merger, Mr. Rogers raved about how About's entrepreneurial culture would spur Primedia properties into the digital age; now Mr. Rogers brags that 60 percent of the company's employees are gone, as are 70 percent of its costs. About, as a result, may break even on a cash-flow basis in the first quarter, according to the company, but revenue will be less than $50 million a year. Total new-media revenue is expected to be 8 percent to 12 percent of the $1.7 billion in sales Primedia expects this year.
DESPITE Mr. Rogers's fervor for his acquisition -- he pushed the deal through over the objections of some of his top executives -- few analysts and investment bankers still try to justify the move. Ad rates for banner ads were already tumbling in the fall of 2000. And the air was rapidly leaking out of the Internet economy, jeopardizing the dot-com advertisers that made up more than 60 percent of About's advertising base.
But the About-Primedia connection, in Mr. Rogers's view, was the niche version of AOL and Time Warner. Unfortunately, About does not have millions of people paying tidy monthly subscription fees to get at the content.
Even Jordan Rohan of SoundView Technologies, who is one of the more bullish among those who track the company, says focusing on acquisitions of yesteryear is not indicative of the company's health. "About gives them reach in the Internet world, but it is not the magic glue people once thought it was," he said.
The balance sheet now tells what Primedia really sees as About's value, thanks to new accounting rules that required Primedia to take a writedown of $326 million. The value is now pegged at $106 million. 
Some analysts believe Kohlberg Kravis will become more involved if Primedia continues to miss estimates. But at today's prices in the mergers-and-acquisitions market, Primedia would fetch barely enough to cover the debt and preferred shares, and Kohlberg Kravis would take a bath on its investment. 
So its only remaining strategy may be to insist that Mr. Rogers manage the margins ferociously and hope for a recovery. "Henry has already tried the C.E.O. fix," said a former Primedia publisher with knowledge of the situation. "Right now, he can't afford a verdict -- it's too big a problem."
Mr. Rogers acknowledges that there may be further divestitures, but he doubts he will be among them. He is confident because he has been right about not being wrong before, most notably with CNBC.
The problems, he said, "come down to something very simple."
"We are a highly leveraged company in the media business in the midst of a media recession," he said. "There was $2 billion in debt when I came to the party. I think we are managing the business pretty well, considering the cards we have been dealt."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Rogers (pg. 1); Tom Rogers, right, of Primedia, bought About.com, a Web site company headed by Scott Kurnit, in 2000. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIA CONVERGENCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); SALES & SELLING (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (74%); PUBLISHING (74%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); SALES FORCE (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); RELIGION (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%) COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING; CREDIT; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (81%); AQUANTIVE INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PRIMEDIA INC 

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (81%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: CARR, DAVID; MANLY, LORNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



630 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Rural Democratic Leaders Favor Cuomo in Straw Poll 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: SCHENECTADY, N.Y., March 23 

 BODY:
Andrew M. Cuomo narrowly defeated H. Carl McCall today in a straw poll of upstate Democratic leaders, a striking upset in one of the early tests in their race for the Democratic nomination for governor.
 The vote offered the most compelling evidence yet that Mr. Cuomo has cut into one of Mr. McCall's greatest strengths, his widespread support throughout the state among elected office-holders and party officials. While Mr. McCall, the state comptroller, still leads in that area -- particularly around New York City, which was not included in today's poll -- it is far from the commanding advantage he enjoyed when Mr. Cuomo, the former United States housing secretary, entered the race last year. 
 The poll took place at the convention of the Democratic Rural Conference, a group of state committee members and county chairmen from 41 upstate counties. The group cast 67 votes for Mr. Cuomo, 61 for Mr. McCall.
Mr. McCall had predicted victory in the days leading up to the straw poll, and his advisers were confident, but more cautious than he was. As the convention convened this morning, each side played the game of lowering expectations, with Mr. Cuomo's aides telling reporters that it would be a victory for him if he just came close in the poll, and Mr. McCall's aides insisting that the outcome was a tossup. Yet those same McCall aides appeared stunned by the result.
"I just take this as a great omen," Mr. Cuomo said. "This is a big shock. Tell you the truth, I did not expect to win."
The event, much like the Iowa presidential caucuses, has no concrete importance but is a closely watched barometer that has not, historically, been a terribly accurate predictor of winners in the September primaries for statewide offices.
Some McCall partisans worried aloud today that the straw poll would add to the perception that his campaign is sagging while Mr. Cuomo's is surging. "This is bad, bad news for Carl," said one of his supporters.
Many Democratic leaders said the outcome reflected, in part, the candidates' contrasting campaign styles. Mr. McCall has traveled the state tirelessly, speaking at dinners and attending fund-raisers but has not been explicitly seeking support for this event. 
Mr. Cuomo, by contrast, kept an eye on the vote, working the phones relentlessly in recent weeks to win over uncommitted leaders and wavering McCall supporters, according to Democrats who received the calls. The straw poll was held by secret ballot, raising the prospect that people who have publicly declared their stance one way voted another.
Public opinion polls show the two Democrats running neck-and-neck, with both lagging far behind Gov. George E. Pataki, the Republican incumbent. Last summer Mr. Pataki looked vulnerable, but his public standing has soared -- along with those of nearly all other elected state leaders -- since the Sept. 11 attacks, despite stumbling in his handling of requests for federal aid.
In speeches at the convention today, neither Democrat did more than aim a veiled jab or two at the other, each training his fire instead on Mr. Pataki.
"You have a system in Albany where they collect campaign checks with one hand and give out government contracts with the other," Mr. Cuomo charged. "It's going to stop."
Mr. McCall said: "Our state is adrift. There is no leadership, there is no direction, there is no vision."
Both men spoke at length about the weak upstate economy, a favorite theme for Democrats in recent elections, and one that worked well for Senators Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton. Mr. McCall chided Mr. Pataki for going to Florida this week to raise money for his campaign, rather than tending to problems at home.
The Pataki camp responded to the straw poll by taking aim at Mr. Cuomo's father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, whom Mr. Pataki defeated in 1994. "The results of today's straw poll clearly demonstrates that Democratic Party insiders are committed to the failed policies of the past and Cuomonomics," said Sandy Treadwell, the chairman of the state Republican Party. 
In a straw poll of candidates for state comptroller, William J. Mulrow, an investment banker, easily defeated Alan G. Hevesi, the New York City comptroller, 106 to 23, a result that surprised no one. Mr. Mulrow has worked hard over the last year to win endorsements, while Mr. Hevesi, who ran unsuccessfully last year for mayor, entered the race only in January, and has barely begun to campaign upstate.
In the seven-way race for the lieutenant governor nomination, Charlie King, who was a Department of Housing and Urban Development official under Mr. Cuomo, won the straw poll, with 44 votes, followed by Dennis Mehiel, a wealthy businessman from Westchester County, with 30 votes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%) MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); CUOMO, ANDREW M; PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



631 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2021 words

HEADLINE: Two Freshmen From Suffolk Learn the Ropes 

BYLINE:  By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
FELIX J. GRUCCI JR. walked alone down a flag-draped marble corridor toward Room 1505, his fifth-floor office suite in the Longworth Building in Washington.
 For a freshman congressman just back from the White House, where he and other members of the New York delegation met with President Bush to hear him renew his pledge of $20 billion in post-Sept. 11 aid to New York, Mr. Grucci looked less elated than weary, a man at the end of a hard week and eager to get home to Long Island. 
 Things were different when he was supervisor of the Town of Brookhaven, the office he held before he was elected to the House of Representatives in 2000. There, Mr. Grucci was something of a feudal king, the No. 1 Republican in a large Republican-controlled town, but home to East Patchogue by dinnertime. 
Now, Mr. Grucci is one of the newest and hence lowliest of the 435 members of the House, albeit the only one with a gold flitter split comet in his office. Wrapped in brown paper and sitting on a shelf, this shell is the signature in a show by Fireworks by Grucci, the family business.
There have also been some political fireworks. Last month, Mr. Grucci withstood reportedly withering pressure from the administration and Republican leaders and joined Democrats in voting for sweeping changes in campaign finance laws. Mr. Grucci said he listened to floor debate but voted according to constituents who complained that the rich and powerful ruled under the current system. "Theirs are the voices I heard the most, because theirs were the most compelling," he said.
But that was a high point. Mostly, he said, he lives a three-cornered existence.
"The triangulation of my life in Washington goes from my office to the Capitol for votes, over to the Rayburn Building where generally all the committee meetings are, and then back here again," said Mr. Grucci, 50. "Then I get in my car and drive to my apartment, get up at 6:30 in the morning and come back in and start all over again."
If the work that comes with the $150,000-a-year job and the pace in the capital are unrelenting, Mr. Grucci and the Island's other freshman congressman, Steve Israel of Dix Hills, are not complaining. Both men say they are dedicated to serving their districts, willing to put in long hours in Washington and back home, and delighted, even awe-struck, to be members of Congress.
"I'm one of those fortunate individuals whose dream came true," said Mr. Israel, 43, whose comfort level on the job seems greater than his colleague's. Mr. Israel's legislative background is lengthy -- he was an aide to former Representative Richard Ottinger, a Westchester Democrat, in the early 1980's and a Huntington town councilman prior to his election in November 2000.
Though Mr. Grucci and Mr. Israel have different backgrounds and represent different parties, they have some interests in common. They share Suffolk County, and both are members of the Financial Services and Science Committees. Mr. Israel is the lone New Yorker in the 33-member Blue Dog Coalition, who are mostly conservative Southern House Democrats and sometimes vote with the administration. Mr. Israel was one of just nine House Democrats who voted to support Mr. Bush's economic stimulus plan, and he displays the president's framed letter of thanks for that vote on the wall of his district office on West Main Street in Bay Shore.
Mr. Grucci has also developed something of a reputation as a maverick, not only by voting against the administration on campaign spending but more recently by criticizing its plans to dilute the Clean Air Act and cut $5.7 million in funding for the Brookhaven National Laboratory, which is within his district.
The two say they are close colleagues. "We have a very friendly relationship," Mr. Israel said. "Often we sit together on the House floor."
Mr. Grucci said he had occasionally driven with Mr. Israel from the airport to the Capitol. "We may have different philosophical beliefs, but we're fairly close," Mr. Grucci said. "We know that if we are going to have a shot, we are going to have to work together." But they are hardly political twins. The League of Conservation Voters' scorecard for last year gave Mr. Israel a 71 rating. Mr. Grucci's score was 21. American Conservative Union ratings for the year gave Mr. Grucci an 80, Mr. Israel an 8. 
Now, barely halfway through their first terms, the two freshmen are gearing up for re-election campaigns.
For Mr. Israel, the worst-case challenger would have been Rick A. Lazio, Republican of Brightwaters, who vacated the seat to run unsuccessfully for the Senate against Hillary Rodham Clinton two years ago.
Left without a high-profile replacement candidate for the House seat, Suffolk Republicans ran Joan Johnson, a little-known Islip Town official, in Mr. Lazio's stead. Mr. Israel won handily.
National Republicans, seeing Mr. Lazio as the almost presumptive winner if he agreed to run for the House seat again this year, offered restored seniority, plum committee assignments and help in paying debts from his Senate race. But last week Mr. Lazio, now president of a big financial services lobbying group and clearly reluctant to resume a Congressional drill that would take him from his wife and family, said he was not a candidate.
"These calls for me to return to public service have been appreciated and are humbling," Mr. Lazio said in a statement. "However, my two daughters are very young, and they need a father who will help them as they grow up." He said he also wanted to spend more time with his wife, Patricia. "Both my responsibility and my desire are to share more of life with them," he said.
Mr. Israel, who has two young children of his own, said he respected Mr. Lazio's decision and wished him well. Politically, he moved instantly from a possibly endangered freshman to an odds-on favorite to be re-elected.
Mr. Grucci also came into office after someone else's political hiccup. Michael P. Forbes seemed to have a lock on the seat. Then, after being elected three times as a Republican, he switched parties and ran as a Democrat in 2000.
National Democrats enthusiastically welcomed Mr. Forbes, but his switch proved less popular at home. Regina Seltzer, a lawyer from Bellport who didn't consider Mr. Forbes a Democrat at all, clipped him in the primary, and Mr. Forbes's congressional career was suddenly over.
Mr. Grucci, the hope of national Republicans who wanted to regain the seat and punish the incumbent for abandoning the party, had been bracing for a tough fight against Mr. Forbes. Instead, Mr. Grucci had an easy victory over Ms. Seltzer.
Now, four Democrats -- the Suffolk County legislators Vivian Viloria-Fisher of Setauket and Brian X. Foley of Patchogue; Timothy H. Bishop, the provost of Southampton College; and Felicia Gross, a Wading River lawyer -- have lined up to oppose Mr. Grucci.
None are given much of a chance. "There is just not a good Democratic farm team out there," said Amy Walter, the House editor of the Cook Political Report in Washington. 
The races may be somewhat complicated by uncertainties about the reconfiguration of the congressional districts in New York, which is losing two House seats.
Mr. Grucci's First District, which includes the five East End towns, Brookhaven and parts of Smithtown, would probably be minimally affected by new lines because of its geographic location. But future lines for Mr. Israel's Second District, which includes Islip, Babylon and parts of Huntington and Smithtown, seem less certain.
"New York loses two seats, so it becomes a game of shuffling," Mr. Israel said. "We actually gained population on Long Island, whereas areas upstate lost population, so it would be unfair for Long Island to pay for a population loss it didn't suffer."
As members of the 107th Congress, Mr. Grucci has sponsored 10 bills and Mr. Israel has sponsored 13.
Mr. Grucci's bills honor veterans, seek funding for thermal imagining cameras for fire departments, address Internet abuses and require the attorney general to identify animal rights and environmental groups that recruit young members "to participate in violent and illegal activities." None have made it out of House committees.
Mr. Grucci was described by one colleague as in transition from being thrilled to being ever more aware of the grind that came with the office. But he said he still had to pinch himself when he walked onto the House floor or into the White House.
"You do get that feeling of 'Wow, I was just meeting with the president of the United States, and we talked about the biggest and most pressing issue that is going to be facing America,' " Mr. Grucci said.
He keeps a guitar in his office and played a few chords for a visitor recently. "This thing needs to be tuned desperately," he said.
Mr. Grucci, a man of composed demeanor, has also been trying to tune up the smile he attempts in television interviews. "I probably have the worst smile in captivity," he said. "I am very cognizant of that."
The energetic-looking Mr. Israel, by contrast, is quick to smile and is an agile talker and storyteller. His district office sports a pair of red boxing gloves, a gift from older constituents.
Mr. Israel tells a story of how he buttonholed Mr. Bush to ask for help in changing a federal formula that he said denied 60,000 elderly Suffolk County residents medical coverage from Medicare H.M.O.'s.
"He came to the Hill the day before Christmas to wish all the members happy holidays, and I just planted myself at the exit of the room," Mr. Israel said. "He was going to have to knock me down to get past." 
Mr. Israel said the face-to-face meeting led to "rather intensive dialogue" with Tommy Thompson, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and progress toward resolving a problem that cut the number of Medicare H.M.O.'s in the county from 12 to 2.
Mr. Israel's bills are also in committee, except for one to name a Deer Park post office after a top New York City fire official killed on Sept. 11. It was unanimously adopted in the House and sent to the Senate. His other bills would designate school nurses as first responders in biological or chemical attacks, provide incentives to Medicare H.M.O.'s for multiyear contracts, prohibit targeting minors when marketing adult-rated C.D.'s and other adult-rated products, give tax credits for energy-efficient appliances, eliminate tax exemptions for groups supporting terrorists, protect whistle-blowers and provide Medicare coverage for certain types of ovarian cancer tests.
Both men typically spend at least three days and two nights in Washington when the House is in session, and rent apartments near the Capitol. Mr. Grucci shares his with Jesse Garcia, his chief of staff.
Mr. Grucci relies heavily on people from home. Mr. Garcia was also his chief of staff in Brookhaven and lives in Patchogue. Kevin Malloy, his press secretary, is also from Patchogue. Linda Gualtieri, the legislative director, comes from Wantagh. Nicole Longo, the office manager and scheduler, is from Manhasset.
Mr. Israel leans toward people with Washington experience. Mark Siegel, his chief of staff, is a former executive director of the Democratic National Committee and was signed up by Mr. Israel in Washington. So were his press secretary, Jack Pratt, and legislative director, Francis Creighton.
When the congressmen aren't in Washington, they spend time in district offices, frequently going out to meetings and events running well into the evening.
On one recent day, Mr. Israel went from Great Neck to Melville to Hauppauge to Ronkonkoma before rushing back to the office for a meeting. Mr. Grucci described his office, where glass elephants fill a shelf, as a place to jam five days work into three.
"You do get tired by the end of the day, but it's the job that you signed up for," he said.
Mr. Grucci, who is married and has two grown children, and Mr. Israel agreed that the rigors of duties in the district were far outweighed by the relief of leaving Washington behind.
"Coming home is the best part of the job," Mr. Grucci said.
Mr. Israel said, "I leave skid marks on the floor of the House of Representatives."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Steve Israel meets in his Washington office with a visiting constituent, Gladys Harrington, president of the Girl Scouts of Suffolk County. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times); Back in his home office in Patchogue, Representative Felix J. Grucci Jr. talks with Roger and Colette Baker while his receptionist, Katie Sanchez, takes notes. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 10); THE ISLAND'S freshmen congressmen, Steve Israel of Dix Hills, top, and Felix J. Grucci Jr. of East Patchogue, have had a year to discover how much power they have, and how little. Mr. Israel, a Democrat, and Mr. Grucci, a Republican, are gearing up for re-election campaigns. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks, top, and Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: STEVE ISRAEL (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) GRUCCI, FELIX J JR (REPR); ISRAEL, STEVE (REPR); RATHER, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



632 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: They Conquered, They Left 

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
OPRAH WINFREY, Rosie O'Donnell, Gov. Jane M. Swift of Massachusetts. 
 They are all quitting. 
 Ms. Winfrey, after years of teasing about when she would abandon her daily talk show, announced on March 14 that she would quit after the 2005-6 season, her 20th in television. 
Ms. O'Donnell, after just six seasons on her talk show, which attracts 2.5 million viewers every day, will tape her last show in May. 
And last Tuesday, Ms. Swift, the acting governor of Massachusetts, surprised fellow Republicans from Boston to the White House by bowing out of the gubernatorial race. Her reasons: low numbers in the polls (and in her campaign bank account), the pressure of running a state in the economic doldrums and the inevitable pull of small children at home.
But children don't always play into the decision to step down. Gwyneth Paltrow told the German newspaper Berliner Zeitung last week that she wants to leave Hollywood and slow her moviemaking pace because she is fed up with the male-dominated movie industry. 
Then there's Candice Olson, the former chief executive of iVillage (formerly Candice Carpenter) who quit corporate life altogether last year, married, took her husband's name and became a stay-at-home mom. Cokie Roberts, the veteran ABC News anchor, announced last week that she is leaving "This Week" in the fall. "I want a life," she said. 
All of these women gave up positions of fame and influence well before traditional retirement age. In many cases, they had struggled onto the porch of power, made it inside and were just about to ensconce themselves in an armchair when they suddenly did an about-face and headed back home. Would men? Even as Ms. Winfrey and Ms. O'Donnell were planning their exits, Ted Koppel and David Letterman were hanging on to their interview desks, refusing to budge from their network aeries. Men seem far more reluctant to give it all up. (Even if sometimes they should: think of Mick Jagger and his last album.)
"Men never leave jobs," said Carol Wallace, who quit this year as managing editor of People, the world's most profitable magazine, to relocate to a remote Scottish village. "Men die or get forced out. They are addicted to the power and the status and the games." It is seldom, Ms. Wallace said, that a man voluntarily leaves a position of authority while at the peak of his game.
"But they're missing something," she said, adding that she was happy to be perceived as a quitter. "I don't want to drop dead in my job. I want to be ambulatory. But maybe their DNA says they'd drop dead if they didn't work, that it's their oxygen. But it's not for me."
Dr. Phyllis Moen, a sociologist at Cornell University who has studied gender in the workplace, said that it is easier for women in powerful jobs to quit all at once. 
"You're seeing this now," she said, "because the way that careers are structured, women in high-status jobs can't reduce it, so they have to quit cold turkey. Imagine being a part-time governor. You can't do it." 
Nicole Harburger, press secretary for Janet Reno's gubernatorial campaign in Florida and a veteran of many women's political campaigns, said that men form long-lasting identities with corporations or political posts.
But as long as women have been trudging into the workplace, they've been trickling out. Ostensibly, the reasons are children, lifestyle, exhaustion -- or a combination of them all. Perhaps, also, women are different; some say they have less of a psychic investment in a career -- both the power and the money -- as a source of their identity than men. 
Ms. O'Donnell has said she simply decided that she no longer enjoyed the artifice of fame and the rigors of a daily talk show and that she preferred the quieter work of writing and editing her magazine. Ms. Winfrey, too, has the rest of an empire to run. Perhaps that explains part of it: if you can quit, why stay? 
Geraldine B. Laybourne resigned as president of cable television operations for the Walt Disney Company and ABC in 1998, at the top of her game, to start Oxygen Media, an entrepreneurial experiment whose success has not yet been proven. 
"I had all those cable networks reporting to me, I had a number of windows in my office and I had all the corporate perks you could have possibly imagined, but that wasn't what I was about, so I left," Ms. Laybourne said, speaking from a mobile phone on her way to golf camp in Puerto Rico. "I don't know if it would have been as easy to do if I were a man." 
Sheila Wellington, the president of Catalyst, a New York-based group that works to advance women in business, said the picture brought into focus by the recent spate of high-profile quitters is skewed: there are so few women at the top that each singular event takes on heightened meaning.
"There are so few women in power, we pay more attention to it," Ms. Wellington said. Of the chief executives who run Fortune 500 companies, just six are women, she said.
"That's a whopping 1.2 percent," Ms. Wellington said. "If you start thinking about the fact that women made up about a third of the M.B.A. students in the early 1980's, women have been in the work force and women have been educated for careers for two decades now. So where are they?" 
For one, they are very much in the workplace. In 1975 there were 34 million women in the paid labor market, according to the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. In 1995, there were 57.5 million. 
But those at the very top seem to be more prone to dropping out -- probably because they can. A Harvard study of 902 women who graduated from its professional schools from 1971 to 1981 found that 25 percent of the women who earned Harvard M.B.A.'s in the 1970's had left the workplace entirely by the early 1990's, despite their extensive -- and very expensive -- training. Many of those women said they felt "forced out" by motherhood. Although not all. 
But it is equally true that positions of serious authority continue to elude women. In the political arena, Congress added 19 women in 1992. Since then, only 16 more women have been elected to the House. There are 13 women in the Senate and 60 in the House, totaling only about 14 percent of Congress. 
And though more and more women are now serving in the executive branch -- Condoleezza Rice the signal example -- and there are two women on the Supreme Court, not one Congressional committee is headed by a woman.
One who had a shot at any number of the top power positions in Congress was Patricia Schroeder, the former Colorado congresswoman, who was achieving true influence in the House, especially on women's and children's issues, when she quit and headed back West in 1997. Her children were grown, her husband still supportive of her, as he had been through her political career, when she left Washington. In an interview after she left office, Mrs. Schroeder said she "felt like I had been in a huge fight, and I was tired." Last week, Mrs. Schroeder, now chief executive of the Association of American Publishers, a trade group, said she had particular sympathy for Governor Swift.
"We're paying a lot of attention to Jane Swift because it shows us that we still have terrible work and family issues," Mrs. Schroeder said. "I don't know how to say this nicely, but people have simply not supported women in the workplace."
Ms. Swift, however, had cited her family pressures as only one of the issues that drove her to drop out. The overarching reason seemed to be abandonment by her party -- and the threat of an outside force, Mitt Romney, the recent chairman of the United States Olympics Committee, who was getting not only widespread public support for his handling of the Salt Lake Games, but also the dollars needed to mount a hotly contested gubernatorial campaign against a full field of Democrats.
Mrs. Schroeder, however, would not fully concede the point.
"She did not quit," Mrs. Schroeder said. "You have the whole Republican Party of Massachusetts who, if she were male, would have been much more supportive than they have been." 
"Something had to give," Governor Swift said when she announced her decision. "I am sure there isn't a working parent in America that hasn't faced it, that when the demands of the two tasks you take on both increase substantially, something has to give."
Men, too, sometimes quit positions of power while still in their prime. Representative Joe Scarborough, Republican of Florida, resigned in the middle of his Congressional term last year to spend more time with his sons, one of whom has diabetes. 
Meanwhile across the fronts in the gender war last week, there were two striking counterexamples of women who were decidedly not quitting. Carleton S. Fiorina, the chief executive of Hewlett Packard, led the final skirmishes in her dogged fight to merge with Compaq, which she appears to have won. (The final count from shareholders won't be in for several weeks.) And Ms. Reno the former United States attorney general, campaigned tenaciously in Florida for the Democratic nomination in the gubernatorial race against Jeb Bush, despite being drastically behind in the polls and having been found to have Parkinson's disease. 
It's not the same, said Susan Estrich, the legal scholar and author of "Sex and Power." Just as certain circumstances give women the freedom to quit, so do others make it easier for some women to hang in, to the bitter end in some cases.
Governor Swift, Ms. Estrich said, doesn't "have a guy like Frank Fiorina, who took early retirement to support his wife's career and sometimes drives her to work, and by the way, came with two daughters from a previous marriage, which is how she managed to spend three months flying nonstop around the world to collect proxies."
"Imagine a mother doing that," she added. "Imagine what we'd say about her if she did. Imagine her trying to convince voters to vote for her." 
A spokeswoman for Ms. Fiorina, Rebeca Robboy, said Ms. Fiorina often drives her own car to work. 
In fact, Ms. Estrich said, nothing proves better how tough it is for women in the workplace than the reaction to, say, a Jane Swift decision to quit. "The tenor of the attention, just how personal it is, highlights the very obstacles women face" Ms. Estrich said. 
Ms. Wallace, People's happy quitter, said there's little to be concluded from the current crop of dropout women.
"I don't have kids," she said. "Oprah doesn't have kids. So we have no real dependents, and that gives us some freedom. Rosie is wealthy. These are not regular women."

GRAPHIC: Photos: NOT AGAIN -- Gov. Jane M. Swift of Massachusetts after she dropped out of the gubernatorial race. (Associated Press); HIGHLANDER -- Carol Wallace quit as managing editor of People to move to a Scottish village. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); STEPPING DOWN -- Rosie O'Donnell tapes her last talk show in May and will concentrate on other work. (Reuters)(pg. 7) Drawing (Andy Levine)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MEN (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (72%); RELOCATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); RETIREMENT AGE (50%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (50%) WOMEN; CELEBRITIES 

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (92%); GWYNETH PALTROW (67%); DAVID LETTERMAN (57%); MICK JAGGER (50%) WINFREY, OPRAH; O'DONNELL, ROSIE; SWIFT, JANE (GOV); PALTROW, GWYNETH; ROBERTS, COKIE; KUCZYNSKI, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



633 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2381 words

HEADLINE: The Monster That's Feasting on Newspapers 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
LATE last year, executives of TMP Worldwide met with the members of the Chamber of Commerce in Cincinnati to propose a new Internet service to help them recruit hourly employees, like truck drivers or cashiers. A TMP unit, Monster.com, had already become the top site for recruiting people for skilled jobs. The new service, which TMP told them would probably be called CincinnatiJobMatch.com, would be more suited to lower-paid jobs and would cost less than Monster, which in turn was cheaper than newspaper help-wanted advertising.
 Word got back to The Cincinnati Enquirer, and it reacted quickly, boasting in big ads that The Enquirer was "the real monster of the Cincinnati job market." Moreover, the paper discovered that TMP hadn't registered CincinnatiJobMatch.com, so it quickly registered rights to that name. And on Monday, the Enquirer used that site to introduce its own service for hourly jobs, a week ahead of TMP, which starts its service tomorrow, at tristatejobmatch.com. 
 If The Enquirer appears a bit testy, it is no wonder. Over the last few years, Internet job sites, especially Monster, have eaten away at newspapers' help-wanted ads, which inch for inch have been their single most profitable product. In the process, Monster has become one of the biggest dot-com businesses around, and the most profitable. With $536 million in revenue last year, it had pretax operating income of $150 million, edging out eBay, which had a $140 million operating profit.
This is grim news for newspapers, and no relief is in sight. "Even if the economy recovers, the newspapers are not ever going to get back to the levels they saw from 1995 to 2000," said Craig Huber, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, who estimates that about 10 percent of the help-wanted market is now online; he expects that to rise to 25 percent within three years.
Newspapers have fought back. Most of them allow companies that place help-wanted ads to have them listed on the newspaper Web site, too, for an additional fee. Some, like The New York Times, have adopted some features of stand-alone job sites, like resume databases.
The Tribune Company and Knight Ridder have gone further, jointly buying two independent job sites, Careerbuilder.com and Headhunter.net, to create a hybrid -- under the Careerbuilder name -- that sells listings along with newspaper ads and has a national sales force.
The recession has tilted the balance even more toward Monster, as more employers choose to give what little money they have for recruiting to Internet sites because they are cheaper and more efficient.
Last year, help-wanted revenue at the nation's newspapers fell 35 percent, to $5.7 billion, says IDC, the research firm in Framingham, Mass.; domestic revenue of online job sites rose 38 percent, to $727 million.
TMP is by far the biggest cause of the newspapers' pain. Its share of the online job market has risen from one-third to one-half in the last two years, IDC says.
Not that Monster is unscathed by the recession. It was insulated for a while because many of its biggest customers buy one-year contracts, and it kept growing for much of last year. As the contracts started expiring, though, revenue plunged 20 percent in the fourth quarter.
BUT TMP is a rarity in that its Internet unit is doing much better than its traditional businesses. TMP's revenue is falling, profits are stagnating, and investors are questioning its strategy of buying temporary-help agencies, executive-search firms and Web sites that help students find jobs.
Douglas M. Arthur, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, which took TMP public in 1996, wrote in a scathing recent report that TMP was a "growth stock without any growth." He is bullish on Monster, he wrote, but falling revenue and mounting losses for the search and temporary-help units border "on the embarrassing."
Unabashed, TMP is proceeding with its costly plan to go after hourly jobs. It will back its Cincinnati test with $2 million in advertising on radio and billboards and in direct mail.
The hourly workers will be able to submit applications by telephone and by mail, as well as online.
If all goes well, TMP hopes to duplicate the service in up to 100 markets, starting at year-end. But it will not make the same mistake twice. In February, TMP registered more than 200 Web addresses, from AkronJobMatch.com to WacoJob Match.com.
The public face of Monster, and architect of its $150 million marketing campaign, has been its founder, Jeffrey C. Taylor. He water-skied with Sir Richard Branson, founder of the Virgin Group, behind the Monster blimp. And on "Today" on NBC, he showed Katie Couric around a giant snow maze in Salt Lake City, where Monster was an Olympics sponsor. A former disc jockey who takes the turntable at Monster parties, Mr. Taylor, 41, is proud that Monster's sprawling headquarters, in a warehouse in Maynard, Mass., had busy foosball tables before they became an icon of dot-com excess.
But the power at Monster, and much of the reason for its success, emanates from the 39th floor of an icy black office building off Third Avenue, between 40th and 41st Streets, in Midtown Manhattan, where TMP's chief executive, Andrew J. McKelvey, 67, plots new businesses and acquisitions. TMP, which Mr. McKelvey founded in 1968 as Telephone Marketing Programs, an agency to sell Yellow Pages ads, still largely operates like an impetuous private business rather than the 11,000-person corporation, with $1.45 billion in revenue, that it has become. 
Still, TMP's peculiar environment is most likely why Monster rose above 30,000 other job sites, besting those backed by venture capitalists and newspapers. Mr. McKelvey was willing to make big investments in Monster, like buying Super Bowl ads, starting in 1999. But he also saw to it that the company made money early.
TMP's current troubles, however, also stem from Mr. McKelvey's penchant for risk-taking. Essentially, he took the gains from Monster and doubled down on the strategy of filling all jobs from "intern to C.E.O.," a bet that so far has not worked out.
Mr. McKelvey is unconcerned. "Don't get me started on vision," he said, leaning back in a burgundy leather chair in his vast office, which is dominated by a pair of red boxing gloves hanging next to a giant globe.
"What you do in business is, you follow your nose," he said. "The secret of success is being at the right place at the right time."
Last fall, Mr. McKelvey responded to the tough times by appointing James J. Treacy, a longtime financial executive, as president. Since joining TMP seven years ago, Mr. Treacy has been a voice of restraint, whose calls for financial discipline and intracompany cooperation were largely ignored by Mr. McKelvey and other entrepreneurial sorts like Mr. Taylor. Now that Mr. Treacy has been given operating control, he is paring the recruiting unit, which he never liked, cutting costs and forcing divisions to work together.
At other companies, this might be a moment for the chief executive to retire gracefully. Not so Mr. McKelvey, though he has cut back his work day to 8 hours from 16. Mr. McKelvey is worth $920 million, according to Forbes; that is down from $2.1 billion in 2000, but it still affords him opportunity for enjoyment. He has a Gulfstream jet, a mansion in the Dominican Republic and a 115-foot yacht in the Bahamas. He has also started two charities -- one to lobby for gun safety, another to give college scholarships to mediocre students in poor neighborhoods who have entrepreneurial zeal. That one is run by Dena, his sixth wife.
"I'm willing to take risks," he said. "Or maybe I have a short attention span." But Mr. McKelvey is firm: the only way he will leave his corner office is "in a pine box."
In the early 1990's, Mr. McKelvey decided to expand beyond the Yellow Pages and to start buying help-wanted agencies. One was Adion, run by Mr. Taylor. But when Mr. McKelvey met him in Boston, all Mr. Taylor wanted to talk about was his new Web site, the Monster Board.
Mr. McKelvey had never heard of the Internet, but he was intrigued. He bought the agency for $930,000, then secretly bought the Online Career Center, Monster's larger rival. Even Mr. Taylor did not find out until TMP went public the next year. "Andy likes to control what you eat for breakfast," Mr. Treacy explained.
TMP powered Monster's growth right away. Because TMP's agencies already had hundreds of sales representatives talking to employers about help-wanted ads, it started suggesting that they divert some spending toward Monster. (Unlike newspapers, TMP was not afraid of cannibalizing its existing business.)
WHILE other types of online advertising have yet to prove themselves, online classified ads -- whether junk auctions on eBay or job listings on Monster -- are a thriving business.
Sites like Monster let people browse through jobs as if they were books on Amazon.com and then zap off applications at the click of a mouse. Similarly, employers have endless aisles of prospective employees, both from responses to postings and databases of resumes.
They are hardly a panacea. Job seekers complain of outdated jobs, and listings that are ruses to get resumes by employment agencies. Employers grumble they are often deluged with irrelevant applications from halfway across the world.
But for employers, what has been most important is that online job sites can be much cheaper than newspaper ads. Posting a job on Monster costs $305 for 60 days. Access to the resume database costs more. The average ad for a professional job in a major newspaper costs about $1,000 a day.
For big companies, this has made a compelling proposition. Nestle wants to put all its hiring online. At Sprint, which hires 25,000 people a year, 21.5 percent of total hires in January and February came from the Internet, versus 8 percent for all of 2001. Few big companies plan to return to newspaper ads.
When TMP said last summer that it would buy HotJobs, the No. 2 site, Careerbuilder felt that it would benefit by moving up to the second spot. But last fall, Yahoo stepped in and outbid TMP for HotJobs.
There are also myriad smaller job sites, many offering free listings on trade association sites. And William O. Warren, Monster's former president, has created a nonprofit group backed by companies like I.B.M. and Cisco Systems to run a site called DirectEmployers.com.
Peter Weddle, chief executive of Weddle's Publications, which covers the recruitment industry, says this service has the potential to exploit concern that Monster has taken advantage of its position by raising job-posting prices. "DirectEmployers .com is a response to the perception among recruiters that Monster has taken them for granted, their prices are too high and customer service too low," he said. Mr. Taylor, however, says Monster offers good value and has improved its service.
So far, Monster dominates every measure -- numbers of job seekers, resumes and job postings, as well as revenue and profits. In January, 13.9 million people in the United States visited Monster at least once, according to Jupiter Media Metrix, the technology research firm. Monster now has 15 million resumes on file, double the number a year ago.
"With everything they have done to create the market, Monster stands head and shoulders above everyone else," said Michael Roberts, a first vice president at Bank One.
The revenue from TMP's search business, however, fell 39 percent last year, a bigger drop than at any other big search firm, according to Hunt-Scanlon, a Stamford, Conn., consulting firm. Last summer, TMP negotiated to combine its search operation with Heidrick & Struggles International, the No. 2 search firm, but no agreement could be reached, people close to the talks said. Then, in October, Steven B. Potter, head of the search unit, left.
All this is worth the bother, Mr. McKelvey says, because ultimately even chief executives will be found online. (The company did set up such a system, called Chief Monster, but it has been disappointing.)
"Will a C.F.O. from a Fortune 500 company put his resume up on Monster?" Mr. McKelvey asked. "No way, in the world today. But tomorrow, you bet." The job of keeping the company in order until that day now falls to Mr. Treacy. 
"This company has been run by entrepreneurs, and they can't do the same thing the same way twice," said Mr. Treacy, who was once a treasurer at the WPP Group. "I'm a big-company guy, and I understand that big companies need process."
Mr. Treacy also says he was not keen on some of Mr. McKelvey's acquisitions, especially in the executive-search area. As he has received more power, the search division has been scaled back sharply to focus on the lucrative market for the "C-suite" -- chief whatever officers.
All units have been told that an important mission is to drive business to the Internet, or, as Mr. Treacy puts it, "feed the Monster."
SO far, TMP has few customers that choose to buy a bundle that includes recruiting interns and chief executives. Indeed, some clients who had relationships with multiple TMP units say there is little coordination.
That will come, Mr. Treacy said. There are synergies, he added, that are not obvious. "If you are a recruiter who can use Monster's database for free, your business model is a lot better than someone who has to pay for the same thing," Mr. Treacy said.
That is a real sore spot, because TMP's rivals worry that they will see resumes for the best candidates on Monster only after TMP has picked over them. TMP says it plays fairly, but the risks are high: one-third of Monster's revenue comes from temporary-help agencies.
TMP is approaching other papers. But Mr. Treacy acknowledged that Monster had been rebuffed many times as it tried to form alliances with newspapers, many of which are controlled by founding families.
"Every time they contemplated sharing revenue with us, someone's grandfather would turn over in his grave," Mr. Treacy said, but some newspapers are weary of losing money on Internet operations and would rather switch than fight.
"For newspapers to work with Monster would be goofy," said Timothy J. Landon, president of the classified advertising division of the Tribune Company. "At the end of the day, Monster is all about sucking the value of classifieds back to TMP."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew J. McKelvey, left, chief executive of TMP Worldwide, and James J. Treacy, the company's president, with Trump, the mascot for TMP's Monster.com unit. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Swimming Upstream"In a recession, spending on help-wanted advertising usually drops considerably. Monster.com has bucked the trend, increasing its market share, but the other businesses of its parent, TMP Worldwide, have shrunk. Graph shows U.S. NEWSPAPER HELP-WANTED SPENDING since 1999. Graph shows U.S. ONLINE JOB BOARD SPENDING since 1999 for Monster.com and others. Graph shows TMP WORLDWIDE REVENUE, BY SEGMENT (In billions) for Monster.com, other Internet businesses, Help-wanted advertising, Temporary employment, Executive search, and Yellow Pages advertising since 1999. (Sources: The Newspaper Association of America; IDC.; company reports)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES FORCE (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (75%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); WEB SITES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%) LABOR; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; NEWSPAPERS; ADVERTISING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: TMP WORLDWIDE INC; MONSTER.COM 

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (85%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL; MCKELVEY, ANDREW J; TREACY, JAMES J 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



634 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Absolute Fabulosity 

BYLINE:  By JOHN LELAND 

 BODY:
IT'S been a rough six months, and many sacrifices have been made, especially by the English language. With all the sonorous talk of in-the-wake-of, the-events-of and axis-of, there's been a long parade of ominous aheming. 
 Now comes news that President Bush has a thing for fabulous. The man cannot stop using the f-word. From his days as candidate, when he warned doubters not to misunderestimate him, Mr. Bush has gone his own way, word-wise. Now, in the hour of crisis, he is letting his fab flag fly. 
 Fabulous, of course, has a noble pedigree, and is useful for describing the writings of Aesop or the S.E.C. filings of Enron. But in its broader usage, fabulous belongs to the world of fashion, where it is the verbal equivalent of a double air kiss. As captured in the fashion sit-com "Absolutely Fabulous," it means: I will reserve judgment until you are not around. "Giorgio, those chiffon streamers are fabulous," means "You and I will not let those chiffon streamers come between us just now."
As such, it seems hardly the stuff of global diplomacy. Washington has its own, highly evolved doublespeak; why borrow from fashion? 
With tough elections coming up, perhaps it's a subtle shout-out to the fashion vote. Soccer moms are a constituency; why not the fabulous? Fabulous may also have untapped military potential. One of its virtues is that it is always full-throttle, like evil. One is never almost fabulous, or on the verge. Fabulous is absolute. Even our tetchiest allies would surely join an axis of fabulous. 
But there may be a broader linguistic agenda at work: a vast fab-wing conspiracy, if you will. After the gloom of the last six months, the president is sending a message that it is O.K. to get giddy again, whether or not the circumstances merit it. Addressing a crowd in a depressed part of Oregon earlier this year, he trumpeted, "I believe 2002 is going to be a fabulous year for America." Enough of dowdy stoicism; fabulous offers stoicism with brio and better shoes. 
Though there is debate about this, fabulous appears to have a supply-side effect. The president's remarks trickle down, creating a rising tide that flatters all boats. Sober economic policy may rebuild public confidence, but fabulous can reinflate the all-important big-spending public egomania.
Or perhaps the president has sounded the American character and found that the duplicity of fabulousness is a bedrock national value that distinguishes us from our adversaries. Our native social hypocrisy is a first line of defense. It is the lubricant of American industry, the enabler of democratic compromise, the smile of multicultural cooperation. It merits a little presidential smoke blown its way.
Not surprisingly, the mercurial fashion world has moved on to other words. "Fabulous was big two or three years ago," said Linda Wells, editor in chief of Allure magazine. "Now it's 'gorge,' " as in gorgeous.
Of course, maybe Mr. Bush just has a thing for the word. In which case all this other jazz is felicitous accident. How fabulous. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) ENGLISH LANGUAGE 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LELAND, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



635 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Forging the Monterrey Consensus 

 BODY:
Half the world's population lives on $2 a day or less. Can prosperous nations best help them by spending significantly more on foreign aid, or by better targeting their assistance and making it more efficient? Both, is the sensible answer that came out of the United Nations' International Conference on Financing for Development, held last week in Monterrey, Mexico. But even though rich nations have pledged to reverse recent declines in assistance, it is not clear that they are prepared to invest enough. 
 The United Nations estimates that it will take a doubling of the nearly $50 billion spent globally each year in foreign aid to meet its ambitious goal of cutting poverty in half by 2015. Developed countries have long been asked to contribute 0.7 percent of their gross national product in foreign aid, but only a handful of Northern European countries do so. America's foreign aid budget currently amounts to barely a tenth of a percentage point. 
 Before President Bush announced earlier this month that he would seek a 50 percent increase in America's aid spending by 2006, it appeared as if the White House might hide behind the more-versus-better debate on foreign aid to avoid heeding the United Nations' call for a greater commitment. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill has been particularly critical of the World Bank and other international development bodies, claiming that they had "precious little" to show for their trillion-dollar effort over the decades. 
Much of his criticism is valid. Too often, the World Bank's low-interest loans have been funneled to corrupt governments that have not been held accountable. Critics like Mr. O'Neill rightly want to see more grants, instead of loans, earmarked for the poorest countries, and not necessarily for their governments.
America's own track record has been far from stellar. Throughout the cold war, aid was funneled to key allies that were not always the most deserving humanitarian cases. Helping countries escape poverty has also proved more complicated than anyone imagined more than a half-century ago, when the United Nations and its development agencies were established. Trade, private investment and good governance have proved far more influential than charity in lifting living standards. 
Yet the recent experience of African countries like Mozambique, Uganda and Senegal, where foreign aid has provided sound reformist governments with seed money to great effect, is the latest reminder that assistance can play a pivotal role in alleviating misery and encouraging growth. Foreign aid does not always produce results, but the chances of success almost always rise when aid is delivered to countries that have adopted policies that promote social welfare and economic growth. President Bush eloquently made that point in Monterrey on Friday. 
It is encouraging that an administration so critical of past foreign aid recognizes that it must reform how the money is spent and then invest even more. The war on terrorism has undoubtedly helped the president reach that conclusion. The European Union has also announced substantial increases in its aid spending.
Development agencies like the World Bank and poor nations themselves are acknowledging the lessons from the past. Much of the talk in Monterrey was about the need to condition aid on a recipient nation's willingness to embrace and promote free markets, human rights, the rule of law, education, women's rights and property rights.
There is still a significant gap between the aid pledged by rich countries and what is needed. The imperative now, as aid dollars are invested more wisely, is to close that gap. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (63%) FOREIGN AID; EDITORIALS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); UGANDA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



636 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Frail Offer; 
Arab States Eye a Way Forward

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
IN the turbulent bazaar of Middle East peace negotiations, the Palestinians never had much to barter.
 They boasted little credible military force, no land and fickle friends -- the Arab nations next door -- who tended to offer flowery lip service at most. But there was one thing the Israelis sought through the Palestinians: acceptance. Once their hostility eased, the Israelis sensed, the rest of the neighborhood would come along. 
 That is the essence of the Saudi initiative that Crown Prince Abdullah is expected to unveil to his fellow Arab leaders at their summit meeting this week in Beirut: If Israel ends its conflict with the Palestinians, the Arab world will reciprocate by accepting Israel. In other words, there can be normal relations -- not necessarily warm, but without the threat to drive the Israelis into the sea. That is what Israelis have said they have sought most since the state was founded in 1948. 
But what exactly is propelling this new Arab suggestion about ending the conflict? Certainly, as they gather in Beirut, Arab leaders who propose peace face opposition in some quarters back home, from many intellectuals and from a public that applauds the Palestinians' sudden willingness to stand up militarily and their ability to score psychological victories against Israel. Opponents cling to the old notion that accepting Israel is tantamount to surrender and welcome reports of mounting Israeli casualties as a sign that the other side's morale is finally being worn down.
But the leaders of some of the most influential Arab nations believe the conflict has moved to a point where it risks causing trouble at home. First, they want to reduce the appalling human toll. Second, a United States newly bloodied by suicide terrorism is identifying Palestinian violence as terrorism and supporters of those tactics as fellow-travelers. That means regimes that are close to Washington risk getting caught between their patron and their own disgruntled populations.
Third, anger over the Palestinian issue is the most likely spark for domestic unrest during trying economic times, and it could help the recruitment efforts of the those, like Osama bin Laden, who attract recruits by denouncing Israel as they seek the violent overthrow of their own Arab governments. 
Finally, until recently the United States has pointedly stayed aloof from the conflict, a stance that has given Israel great freedom to do what it wants in the occupied territories. But the Bush administration, suddenly conscious that it needs Arab support if it wants to carry its war on terrorism into Iraq, is showing renewed interest in becoming an intermediary, giving Arab regimes a window of opportunity to appeal for American intervention. 
There remain mountainous obstacles on the road to Arab-Israeli peace, of course -- one of the biggest questions is how forcefully the Bush administration will tempt and prod the adversaries to first quell the violence and then make peace -- and the Saudi initiative is in no way a plan to resolve the complexities of a final settlement. Rather, it's a vision of what can come after the Israelis, Syrians, Palestinians and Lebanese finally reach a deal.
THE basic proposition as outlined by the Saudis so far is not new. Prince Abdullah is likely to put it this way to his fellow Arabs, assuming violence doesn't preclude any talk of peace in Beirut this week: Let's get Israel to redraw the lines where they were just before the 1967 war, get the Palestinians a state with a chunk of eastern Jerusalem for its capital and send back into Israel a reasonable number of refugees from the 1948 war. In exchange, the rest of the Arab countries will roll out some form of welcome wagon.
"You have to give the Israelis something in an Arab currency," said Abdel Monem Said, director of the Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo. 
The Arab world does not lack for nay-sayers. Iraq and Libya, to start, both oppose the idea, although Iraq has kept largely silent, hoping to persuade the Arab summit to express the idea that America should not attack it.
Last week, a few thousand Lebanese marched in protest against the Saudi proposal, and a columnist in the Saudi daily Al-Watan decried the very idea of a peace initiative at a time of such intense violence between Israel and the Palestinians. After his paper reported the March 8 Palestinian death toll at 50 (other reports varied from 40 to 60), he wrote: "Fifty martyrs, two every hour, and you ask us to give Sharon a chance! Fifty martyrs, O champions of the 'new Middle East' and supporters of 'compromise'! "
Critics in Jordan and Egypt include professional organizations, trade unions and political opposition groups that have long campaigned against contacts with Israelis even though their two countries have peace treaties with Israel. 
"The proposed normalization now is one way of surrendering, and it helps get the Israeli leadership and Sharon out of the crisis that he got himself into," Ali Abu Sukkar, the president of the Committee Against Normalization in Jordan, a group formed to oppose its 1994 treaty with Israel, said on Al-Jazeera television.
BUT senior Arab officials argue that there has never been a stronger consensus among them, nor a stronger reason to push forward with an initiative that will appeal to both sides. "We have to let the Israelis know that we want to live in peace with them as long as they do their part," said Marwan Muasher, the Jordanian foreign minister. "And we have to give Palestinians hope that there is an end to the occupation, that there will be a Palestinian state."
Arab officials and analysts do not consider the Saudi proposal a concrete prescription to be followed by all 22 Arab League members, but a general formula. But they believe that if Israeli settlements were being dismantled and Palestinians were celebrating their state, it would make an Israeli embassy palatable in almost every capital and would dry up support for extreme groups that seek to destroy Israel.
"We are not talking only about the end of belligerency, we are talking about relations," said Mr. Muasher, the Jordanian foreign minister. "There will be an overall declaration that everybody agrees to, but you can't expect every single Arab country to have the same relations with Israel. Will every country have an exchange of theater groups, for example? I don't know; that is up to negotiation."
Some sense of the likely outcome of a final peace deal can be gleaned from the aftermath of the 1993 Oslo accords between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. Morocco and Tunisia, which have Jewish communities of their own, established low-level diplomatic relations and welcomed Israeli tourists. Oman and Qatar exchanged trade offices, while Mauritania opted for full diplomatic relations. (Geographic distance seems to abet relations.)
When Egypt became the first country to sign a peace treaty with Israel, the men flogging camel rides at the Pyramids beckoned Israeli customers just like everyone else, as did tour operators in Jordan when it too made peace. But relations overall were never more than chilly. 
Analysts note that events quickly soured both nations on their peace treaties. Egypt's was followed by the 1982 Israeli invasion of Lebanon. Fierce fighting erupted there again right after Jordan signed in 1994. Now, since the outbreak of new Palestinian-Israeli violence 18 months ago, all Arab states have frozen their ties with the Israelis. But the experience of Egypt and Jordan, which were accused by fellow Arabs of being Quislings, is not likely to be an issue again if everyone goes along with the Abdullah proposal and makes peace this time.
Still, many analysts believe that Israeli hopes for the level of relations they will achieve are much too high. These analysts point out that even among themselves the Arabs don't always get along well. For example, relations between Iraq and Saudi Arabia have not been particularly warm since Iraq killed off its monarchs in 1958, even though the two share a lengthy border.
Perhaps the most intriguing relationship would be one between Israel and Saudi Arabia. The late King Faisal vowed that his country would be the last to recognize Israel. Predictions of the reception that Israelis would receive range from strong anti-Semitism by hardcore Islamists to a kind of benign acceptance based on the fact that the Arab-Israeli dispute would have ended. "You can accept them as a neighbor, but that doesn't mean you have to invite them to dinner," said Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi newspaper editor.
In past dealings with Israel, Syrian negotiators have concentrated on things like where the armies will be deployed, while the Israelis are hoping for the kind of open borders that will allow visits to historic sites in Damascus.
The past 18 months of violence have thrown into question, more than ever, how long it will take to establish anything remotely resembling normal relations. Arab analysts and officials believe that this generation of Arab youths seems to harbor more hatred for Israelis than ever.
"Every child watching television in Egypt, in Lebanon, wherever, they can all watch Palestinians being killed," said Mohammed Sobeih, the Palestinian ambassador to the Arab League. "Kids see it on television every day, and they will never forget this."
BUT Arab governments worry that anger about the Palestinian-Israeli dispute could ignite the simmering frustrations over their own domestic problems -- unemployment, corruption and the sense that dictatorial leaders care more about maintaining power than improving the lot of their citizens.
Many area analysts believe that for the sake of stability at home, Arab governments must do something. Tackling social problems will be less fraught with danger once the scenes of dying Palestinians are gone, they say. 
"All the terrorists in the region, the fundamentalists, anyone who wants to undermine the regimes in the Middle East uses the inability of the regimes to face the Israelis," said Mr. Said, director of the Ahram Center in Cairo. "The Arab-Israeli conflict is one of the main reasons for instability. There are other social problems, but nothing stirs passions like that."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Rodica Prato) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); TERRORISM (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); WAR ON TERROR (68%); SUICIDE (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (65%) PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE OF SAUDI ARABIA) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (91%); CAIRO, EGYPT (78%) ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); LEBANON (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (79%); EGYPT (78%) ISRAEL; SAUDI ARABIA

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



637 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: More Aid, More Need: Pledges Still Falling Short 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, March 23 

 BODY:
After years of resisting, the United States is enlisting in a global war on poverty, but only if it can choose the rules of engagement, the fields of battle and the ultimate cost.
 Its promises -- and they are only promises at the moment -- are a post-cold-war watershed. Still, they fall far short of what is needed to change one hard fact: half the world's people are have-nots. 
 Ten days ago, it appeared that the Monterrey conference on development aid, convened by the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, might prove an empty exercise. The world's nations had already agreed to the goal of halving the number of people in poverty by 2015. But there was no money on the table. 
Now, prodded and pulled and shamed by Mr. Annan, challenged by presidents and prime ministers from nations rich and poor, the United States and Europe have pledged tens of billions of dollars to ease the misery of 2.5 billion poor people.
The change in American policy came in part because President Bush made a direct connection between poverty and terrorism, an idea that the United States had been reluctant to embrace.
"We fight against poverty," he said Friday in Monterrey, "because hope is an answer to terror."
Specifically, Mr. Bush, making his pledge bigger and more urgent than he did at first, said he would ask Congress to increase American aid to poor nations by 50 percent over the next three years, to $15 billion in 2006, and to try to start the money flowing within months, not a year or two.
A great gap remains between what most of the rest of the world wants and what the United States is willing to do, and there are cracks in the framework the United States is proposing for the rest of the world.
The Europeans pressed the United States hard for more. "What can be done against terrorism can surely be done against poverty, in the name of a more human, manageable globalization," said President Jacques Chirac of France.
But the United States' list of deserving nations will be much shorter than the list of needy ones, American officials in Monterrey said.
Few argue with the American position that corrupt governments should not receive aid. But Mr. Bush spent most of his time in Monterrey talking about trade, not aid, which has been the American mantra for a decade. He laid down conditions: If the United States is to open its wallet, poor nations must open their markets. If they undertake political, legal and economic reforms, Washington will help them trade their way to prosperity.
"To be serious about fighting poverty, we must be serious about expanding trade," he said. "Greater access to the markets of wealthy countries has a direct and immediate impact on the economies of developing nations."
But hundreds of millions of people in poor countries who grow food for a living are frozen out of rich countries' markets by "the greatest trade barriers" in the world, the ones imposed by rich nations, the World Bank says in a new report.
No less a globalist than Mike Moore, the director general of the World Trade Organization, said in Monterrey that the agricultural subsidies paid out by the United States and the European Union cost the developing nations more than $250 billion a year in lost markets -- more than five times the sum of all the aid they receive.
The United States today spends twice as much directly subsidizing American agribusiness than it does aiding needy nations. All told, subsidies and other support fertilizing the fields of wealthy nations run about $1 billion a day, or roughly six times the amount spent on aid.
This means that corn from Iowa floods Mexico's markets, onions from France swamp Senegal and farmers from the poorer countries are shut out. "It is no good helping dairy farmers in a country, if at the same time you are exporting subsidized milk powder to it," as Mr. Annan put it.
The new aid the United States promised to provide is a fraction of what other nations think it should give. It represents an increase to 0.13 percent of the national economy, from 0.10 percent. The European Union is to increase its spending to 0.39 percent from 0.33 percent, adding $20 billion by 2006.
The mark Mr. Annan has set for rich nations is 0.70 percent; five European nations exceed that, but the United States drags the average down to 0.22 percent. 
Together with the pledges from Europe, the increased American contribution represents less than one-fourth of Mr. Annan's goal, which was an additional $50 billion a year. Moreover, the new aid proposed by Mr. Bush would still leave the United States as "the benchmark at the bottom of world donors," said Jeffrey D. Sachs, a development specialist at Harvard and a special adviser to Mr. Annan.
The debate in Monterrey may sound arcane. But at root, the many advocates of increased assistance argue, it is very simple.
If Mr. Annan's goals are not met by 2015, Oxfam, the British aid group, contends, death by starvation and preventable diseases will claim an additional 56 million children in that period. One billion people will still be struggling to survive on less than $1 a day, just as they are today.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Gutierres brothers outside their home in Monterrey, Mexico. Elsewhere in the city, world leaders were meeting to talk about aid. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POVERTY RATES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TRENDS (71%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JACQUES CHIRAC (51%) ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); MEXICO (92%); FRANCE (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



638 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2911 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: TERRORISM; 
A Secret Iran-Arafat Connection Is Seen Fueling the Mideast Fire

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ and JAMES RISEN 

DATELINE: TEL AVIV 

 BODY:
American and Israeli intelligence officials have concluded that Yasir Arafat has forged a new alliance with Iran that involves Iranian shipments of heavy weapons and millions of dollars to Palestinian groups that are waging guerrilla war against Israel.
 The partnership, officials said, was arranged in a clandestine meeting in Moscow last May between two top aides to Mr. Arafat and Iranian government officials. The meeting took place while Mr. Arafat was visiting President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, according to senior Israeli security officials who declined to describe the precise nature of their information. 
 The new alignment is significant for several reasons, American and Israeli officials said. In recent years, Iran's support for terrorism around the world has been on the wane, with the notable exception of its ties to Hezbollah, the militant group that fought for 18 years to expel Israel from southern Lebanon. 
Israeli officials say they are alarmed by Mr. Arafat's alliance with Iran because they say it gives the Palestinians a powerful and well-armed patron in the increasingly violent conflict with Israel. American officials echoed that concern and said they were also worried by intelligence reports that say Tehran is harboring Al Qaeda members, including one leader who recently tried to mount an attack against Israel from his sanctuary in Iran.
Questions about Iran's relationship with the Palestinians came into public view early this year when Israel seized a ship carrying 50 tons of Iranian-supplied arms, including antitank weapons that could neutralize one of Israel's main military advantages over the Palestinians and rockets that could reach most cities in Israel.
Both the Palestinians and Iranians deny they are working together, but American and Israeli officials say they now see the shipment as part of a broader relationship. They say that began with several smaller attempts by Iranian-backed groups in Lebanon to supply arms and was cemented in the Moscow meeting. Officials of Israel and the United States say they believe that Mr. Arafat personally approved the dealings with Iran.
American officials said that Israeli intelligence reports about the Moscow meeting were at the heart of secret briefings that Israel provided to the Bush administration after the arms shipment was intercepted. 
"There's plenty of evidence to show that it wasn't a rogue operation," a senior State Department official said of the ship that Israel seized in early January.
Palestinian Authority officials dismissed the charges of any Iranian involvement in their struggle against Israel and denied that Mr. Arafat knew of the arms shipment. They said the allegations were an attempt by Israel to discredit the Palestinians and to justify Israel's military operations in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
"This is a factory of lies," Yasir Abed Rabbo, the Palestinian minister of information, said. "Israel is like any colonial power. When they get in trouble, they try to blame outsiders. There has not been a single Iranian here since the 14th century."
Iran also has denied any involvement with the Palestinians or the arms shipments. Ali Shamkhani, the Iranian minister of defense, told the state news agency, "The Islamic Republic of Iran has had no military relations with Arafat, and no steps have been taken by any Iranian organization for the shipment of arms to the mentioned lands."
For several years, American counterterrorism experts believed Iran's terrorist apparatus had fallen dormant. Hezbollah and other groups backed by Iran had not attacked American targets since the Khobar Towers bombing in Saudi Arabia killed 19 American servicemen in 1996. Iranian leaders had apparently decided that state sponsorship of anti-American terrorism was too risky at a time when the country was trying to build closer economic ties with Europe.

Post-Intifada Enthusiasm
Iran also seemed locked out of Palestinian issues while Mr. Arafat pursued the Oslo peace process with Israel. Relations soured so badly between Tehran and Mr. Arafat after the Oslo accords in 1994 that the Palestinian leader became convinced that religious leaders in Iran had issued an order that he be killed for dealing with the Jewish state, according to American and Israeli officials.
But American intelligence officials said that they believe that the onset of the Palestinian uprising known as the intifada in September 2000 renewed the enthusiasm among Iran's hard-liners for terrorism. 
"The main variable is that the intifada has stirred the radical juices in Iran," said a senior American official. "With the outbreak of the intifada, the Iranians decided they wanted things to burn hotter. The Iranians are now supporting a number of Palestinian groups -- it's been a bad news story on Iran over the last 18 months." 
George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, recently told Congress that Iran's political reformers were losing momentum in the long-running battle for power with the conservative clerics who control the Iranian intelligence and security agencies that support extremist groups. He warned that there had been little reduction in Iran's backing for terrorism and he said that Tehran had failed to seal its eastern border with Afghanistan to block the escape of Al Qaeda members.
Israeli officials said there was new evidence that some Iranian officials have allowed Al Qaeda to use the country not just as a transit point after escaping Afghanistan, but as a staging area.
Abu Musaab Zarqawi, a senior Al Qaeda leader who fled the western Afghan city of Herat after the American military campaign began, has turned up in Tehran under the protection of Iranian security forces, according to senior Israeli and American officials.
Last month, Mr. Zarqawi dispatched three Afghan-trained operatives to attack Israel, Israeli officials said. The three, two Palestinians and a Jordanian, were arrested when they crossed from Iran into Turkey on Feb. 15.
Turkish authorities said the men had possessed fake documents, had diagrams for bombs and claimed that they intended to attack targets in Tel Aviv on orders from a leader known as Abu Musaab. Israeli intelligence said his full name was Abu Musaab Zarqawi, and American officials said he was believed to be the highest ranking Al Qaeda leader now in Iran.
The new information about his presence in Tehran raises questions about his actions and the activities of other Al Qaeda terrorists who entered Iran in recent months. 
American officials say they are uncertain how much direct support senior Iranian government officials are giving to Al Qaeda members. Al Qaeda is a Sunni Muslim group, but Iran is Shiite. Moreover, Iran strongly supported the Afghan opposition groups that fought the Taliban. 
But Mr. Tenet told a Senate committee that old religious divisions among Muslims did not rule out cooperation on terrorism against the United States and its allies.
There is evidence that Osama bin Laden sought to bridge the religious divide when it came to terrorist operations by exploring an alliance with the Iranian-backed guerrilla group Hezbollah as early as the mid-1990's.
Ali A. Mohamed, an Al Qaeda member convicted of conspiracy in the bombings of the American embassies in East Africa in 1998, testified that he had arranged security for a meeting in Sudan between Mr. bin Laden and Imad Mugniyah, the Hezbollah militant who masterminded the 1983 suicide attack on the Marine barracks in Beirut that killed 241 Americans and helped to define terrorism for Americans.
Among many Arabs, Hezbollah's status surged after its long military and terrorist campaign in southern Lebanon helped lead to the Israeli withdrawal from the country in May 2000. Its victory meant that Mr. Mugniyah and Hezbollah's terrorist wing had less work. Soon after the start of the Palestinian uprising, Iran sent Mr. Mugniyah to help the Palestinians, American and Israeli intelligence officials said. 
"Mugniyah got orders from Tehran to work with Hamas," a former Clinton administration official said.

In Grip of Hard-Liners
United States intelligence officials say they are increasingly concerned by the mounting evidence of Tehran's renewed interest in terrorism, including covert surveillance by Iranian agents of possible American targets abroad. American officials said Iran appeared to view terrorism as deterrent against possible attack by the United States. "If there was a direct military operation by the United States against Iran," one intelligence official said, "Mugniyah would likely attack us."
Since the surprise election of reformer Mohammad Khatami as president of Iran in 1997 and his wide public support, Washington has been counting on a new moderate political majority to emerge. But the hard-line faction has maintained its grip on Iran's security apparatus, frustrating American efforts to ease tensions with Tehran. 
Now, Iranian actions to destabilize the new interim government in Afghanistan, its willingness to assist Al Qaeda members and its fueling of the Palestinian uprising are prompting a reassessment in Washington, officials say. 
At the same time, Israeli officials have become increasingly vocal about Iran's new ties to the Palestinians, partly to link their own fight to the American-led war on terrorism. Earlier this year, President Bush identified Iran, Iraq and North Korea as an "axis of evil."
American intelligence officials said Iran's Revolutionary Guards and intelligence service had considerable latitude for supporting Iranian proxies. They also supported Israeli assertions that Iran had become deeply involved in backing Palestinian militants, both through Hezbollah and in the training and financial support from Iranian intelligence agents.
United States officials said, for instance, that the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, one of the groups behind the wave of suicide bombings in Israel, was financed and directed by Iran. American and Israeli officials said that since the beginning of the Palestinian uprising 18 months ago, Tehran had paid millions of dollars in cash bonuses to the group for each attack against Israel.
Hamas, a far larger Palestinian extremist group, is also believed to receive Iranian support, though officials here in Israel and in the United States said its ties to Iran were less direct. Hamas has its own independent means of raising money and recruiting members, so Iran is believed to have less influence over the group.
Operatives of Islamic Jihad and Hamas have been trained in Hezbollah camps in southern Lebanon and some have received specialized training inside Iran, American and Israeli intelligence officials said.
Israeli officials said they had recently arrested three Hamas operatives who were returning from two years of specialized training at a Revolutionary Guards officers' course outside Tehran in Dara Kazwin. 
Such training appears to have paid off. Recent attacks by the groups have exhibited hallmarks of the tactics used by Hezbollah against Israel in Lebanon, including the destruction of two Israeli tanks in recent weeks by roadside bombs. 
In fact, Israeli and American officials believe that the 18-year struggle by Hezbollah in Lebanon, backed by tens of millions of dollars worth of arms from Iran, provided a model for what Tehran would like to recreate on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. "The strategy is to make the West Bank another Lebanon," said one senior American intelligence official. 
Israeli officials say they have seen no evidence of Iranian intelligence operatives working directly in the West Bank or the Gaza Strip. Instead, they said, Iranian and Hezbollah operatives meet with Palestinian militants and their intermediaries in Syria, Jordan and Lebanon.

Growing Aid to Palestinians
Jordanian intelligence officials said they had thwarted many attempts by Iran and its proxies to mount attacks against Israel from Jordan. Last weekend, Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, the secretary general of Hezbollah, criticized Jordan for blocking the group's efforts to smuggle weapons to the Palestinians. Meanwhile, Iranian-backed charitable organizations have stepped up financial support for the Palestinians, according to American officials. Israeli officials added that some Palestinians wounded in the uprising were being treated in hospitals in Iran, where Iranian agents sometimes try to recruit them.
But the most visible evidence of the new strategic partnership between the Palestinian Authority and Iran came in the case of the Karine A, a ship laden with 50 tons of mortars, rockets, missiles and explosives from Iran that was seized by Israeli commandos in early January. 
The Karine A was a direct outgrowth of the secret meeting in Moscow last May between Mr. Arafat's representatives and Iranian intelligence officers, senior Israeli security officials said.
The shipping venture followed several failed attempts to smuggle weapons from Lebanon by sea into the Gaza Strip. One had occurred early last May when Israeli authorities intercepted the Santorini, a fishing vessel carrying weapons bound for Palestinian extremists. Israeli officials said there were at least three bungled attempts before that, including one earlier shipment by the Santorini.
In response to those failures, the Israeli security officials said, Mr. Arafat sought a deal with the Iranians for a more serious alliance. In exchange for a more professional approach to arms support, Mr. Arafat agreed to provide Iran with access to Palestinian intelligence on Israeli military positions and defenses, they said. 
The arrangement was completed in Moscow, where the Palestinian leader instructed two trusted aides to meet with Iranian government officials, Israeli intelligence officials said. 
The Israelis declined to identify the Iranians involved, but the Arafat aides were identified as Fuad Shobaki, the chief financial officer for military operations for the Palestine Liberation Organization and part of Mr. Arafat's inner circle, and Fathi al-Razem, deputy commander of the Palestinian naval police. 
Follow-up meetings were also held between the Palestinians and the Iranians, but Israeli officials said the Iranians were careful never to hold any of the meetings in Iran for fear of exposing their involvement.
Israeli officials said the Karine A was a highly sophisticated operation, planned to give the Palestinians a quantum leap in firepower and change the military calculus in the uprising.

Evidence of Arafat's Role
The Israelis have been unable to tie the shipment directly to Mr. Arafat, but Israeli officials said the involvement of senior Palestinian Authority officials and Mr. Arafat's well-known attention to financial details created a strong circumstantial case for his knowledge.
American officials agreed that Mr. Arafat's representatives met with Iranian government officials in Moscow, though the Americans said they were uncertain whether the meeting was to complete the arms shipment or was one of several meetings. 
"But there is no question that at some point the Iranians and people very close to Arafat came together and that Arafat was fully aware of it," said a senior State Department official. 
The ship's captain was an officer in the Palestinian navy who was living in Libya, and three of the crew members were Palestinians, including one who tool diving lessons in Lebanon provided by Hezbollah, Israeli security officials said.
In addition, the officials said, a Palestinian naval officer, Adel al-Mughrabi, bought the ship and was in radio contact with its crew during the voyage from an island off the coast of Iran where it picked up the weapons to the point in the Red Sea where the ship was seized by Israelis.
The ship's captain, Omar Akawi, who said he was a 25-year member of Mr. Arafat's Fatah organization, told news organizations in interviews arranged by Israeli authorities in January that he knew he was carrying arms to the Palestinian Authority. 
The ship contained an arsenal that could have escalated the war between Palestinians and Israelis. Among the munitions were 62 Katyusha rockets capable of reaching almost any city in Israel, hundreds of mortars and grenades, antitank and antipersonnel mines and two tons of explosives.
The explosives included a ton of C-4, which Israeli authorities said is nearly three times more powerful than the homemade explosives used by most Palestinian suicide bombers.
The identifying markings on the munitions had been sanded off, but most of them are manufactured only in Iran, Israeli security officials said.
Mr. Arafat and his aides denied any knowledge of the shipment, though they have said some Palestinian Authority personnel were involved.
Within Palestinian political circles, moderates were angered that Mr. Arafat had apparently struck a deal with the Iranians, risking American wrath, a Palestinian negotiator said. But other officials defended the attempt as essential to combating the overwhelming firepower of the Israelis.
The discovery sparked an intense debate within the Bush administration, American officials said. Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld and some others argued that relations should be broken off with Mr. Arafat, but Secretary of State Colin L. Powell contended that there was nothing to gain by cutting ties with the Palestinians.
In the end, Secretary Powell and Mr. Bush chastised Mr. Arafat publicly over the shipment, but the United States did not end its relations with the Palestinian leader.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yasir Arafat met with Vladimir V. Putin in Moscow last year; at the same time, top aides to Mr. Arafat met secretly with Iranian officials, Israeli security officials said. (Associated Press); Mohammad Khatami, left with Yasir Arafat in Tehran. The United States hoped Mr. Khatami would lead a moderate majority in Iran, but hard-liners have kept their grip. (Reuters)(pg. 28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); HAMAS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); AL-QAEDA (74%); APPROVALS (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (70%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); HEZBOLLAH (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); HAMAS (59%) HEZBOLLAH; HAMAS (TERRORIST GROUP); AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (72%) ARAFAT, YASIR; TENET, GEORGE J (DIR); FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; RISEN, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); LEBANON (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JORDAN (79%); IRAN (73%) ISRAEL; IRAN; JORDAN; RUSSIA; LEBANON

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



639 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1980 words

HEADLINE: The Turtle on the Fence Post 

BYLINE:  By William Kennedy; William Kennedy was one of 40 Irish-Americans who traveled to Ireland with President Clinton in 1995. His new novel, "Roscoe," is about a Democratic machine politician from Albany.

 BODY:
 THE NATURAL
The Misunderstood Presidency
of Bill Clinton.
By Joe Klein.
230 pp. New York:
Doubleday. $22.95.
 If it's true that Bill Clinton is what Joe Klein (quoting George Santayana on William James) says he is, "so extremely natural that there was no knowing what his nature was, or what came next" -- and who wouldn't vote for that? -- then this book could hardly be the last word on our immediate ex-president. But Klein's new work stands as a solidly provisional overview of the prismatic Clinton presidency.
The duality, triality, quadrality of Bill Clinton's nature and outlook should by now be a popular topic everywhere for focus groups trying to focus. He has been variously viewed as a poll addict who couldn't make up his mind, "a creature of his audience," a man without core values who compromised on nearly everything, a closet liberal who went to the right whenever it suited him. He was perceived as a faithless husband who loved his wife passionately; a man of cosmic flaws; a sucker for flattery with a compulsion to please; owner of Achilles' heels, elbows and other parts, which all proved impervious to enemy arrows during his eight years as target of the far right's "pyrotechnic hatred." His behavior also brought on what Klein calls "the most lurid month in the history of the American presidency" -- the Mostly Monica Month -- after which the electorate would have gleefully voted him a third term if only it had been legal. Loathed, pilloried, impeached, Bill Clinton saw his approval ratings stay illogically lofty, and he turned into "the most compelling politician of his generation," a national anomaly, a charismatic celebrity who, even now, wows the globalists and historians with his knowledge and fills every room he enters.
Klein, who has covered the White House for Newsweek and The New Yorker, cloned a serious likeness, President Jack Stanton, in the 1996 "anonymous" best-selling novel, "Primary Colors," a book hailed for its language, verve and revelation of the intimacies of a presidential campaign very like Clinton's in 1992. In "The Natural" Klein says his novel was wrongly considered "an attack on the president. . . . I saw it as a defense of larger-than-life politicians -- who, inevitably, have mythic weaknesses entangled with their obvious strengths. . . . It seemed obvious that a larger-than-life leader was preferable to one who was smaller than life." 
Klein begins here with 1992, musing, as he moves forward, on what the president achieved, where he fell short, his mystery marriage to Hillary (maybe the best chapter) and his continuing personality puzzle. Why did he do what he did? Has he no shame? No sense? Klein doesn't stint on caustic appraisals; even so, he emerges as a disappointed, bewildered, but awed Clintonian, for unlike the haters, he sees past the negatives. I've roamed through a score of books about the Clintons, and it's not easy to pinpoint where Klein's information is new; but this book is more readable than the others, dense but tight, funny, adroitly written and, in sum, the first savvy synthesis of the Clinton Age. 
One of Klein's points, historically sad, is that "Clinton had spent most of his life dreaming of a heroic Rooseveltian presidency, of great acts and grand gestures. But that dream ended with health care" -- the campaign, spearheaded by Mrs. Clinton, for universal coverage. It was early in the first term, the Clintons didn't yet understand Congress or appreciate compromise, the grand dream became a fiasco, and it weakened the president. He had to learn to proceed incrementally; and he did. In his second term, after snookering Newt Gingrich in the budget battle that shut down the government twice, he and the grudging Republicans created a balanced budget with -- among much else -- $30 billion in tax credits to make the first two years of college a middle-class entitlement. One skeptic remarked, "It ain't the G.I. Bill of Rights," but Klein notes that the G.I. Bill applied only to returning World War II veterans, whereas by 1999 an astonishing 10 million, of 14 million Americans eligible, would take advantage of the college tax credit. Clinton had also promised welfare reform and in his second term he got some, plus $24 billion for children's health insurance. In five years $70 billion went to families with less than $30,000 in income.
"Persistence," Klein writes, "was his strongest character trait. In this case . . . in the service of his political beliefs, not his ambition . . . the result was perhaps the most important substantive achievement of his presidency." But, Klein adds, these achievements were ignored by the left, which wanted bigger social programs, by the right, which wanted less spending, and by the press, which "mostly didn't notice. . . . Incrementalism was too subtle a story. . . . There was a news vacuum that needed to be filled. In 1998, it would be."
James Carville, Clinton's political consultant, asked the president about his tendency to live dangerously, and Klein quotes the answer: "Well, they haven't caught me yet." But in the Monica Lewinsky case they caught him: hard evidence of a sexual liaison with the young intern. Then came his assertions that it hadn't happened, followed by apologies that it had and finally his testimony before Kenneth Starr's grand jury in August 1998. Klein quotes the president on Starr: "That man is evil. When this thing is over, there's only going to be one of us left standing. And it's going to be me." And it was. Sort of.
Within Clinton's circle of friends, Klein writes, "there had always been a certain exhilaration inherent in watching the president elude the posse." But not this time. "He had lawyered his way through an act of passion . . . had betrayed his wife and staff and given a sword to those who hated what he'd stood for." His first press secretary, Dee Dee Myers, wrote that she never believed that he "would actually risk his presidency . . . for something so frivolous, so reckless, so small."
The first family was in chaos, the White House in depression, Congressional allies suggesting he resign; and then came the scandal's apogee -- his day before the grand jury. Klein imagines the nation watching, expecting him to "make a fool of himself, turn purple, scream like a banshee and storm out of the room. But Bill Clinton didn't turn purple. . . . He was the same Bill Clinton we'd always seen in public . . . charming, mesmerizing and wickedly smart. A bit too smart, at times." This is where Clinton offered his hilarious argument that oral sex wasn't really sex, and gave his mini-lecture on the ambivalence of intransitive verbs (now a Clinton entry in "Bartlett's Familiar Quotations"): "It depends on what the meaning of the word 'is' is. If the -- if he -- if 'is' means is and never has been, that is not -- that is one thing. If it means there is none, that was a completely true statement."
Championship gobble.
Clinton, says Klein, "was at once gallant and brutal about Lewinsky; credibly remorseful . . . appropriately indignant about the motives of the prosecutorial army that had been pursuing him. . . . Indeed, the testimony proved to be a rare and unexpected event. . . . When it was over, the fever had broken." Bill Clinton had eluded the posse, and would elude it again three months later with Senate acquittal on his impeachment charges. His job approval rating soared to 62 percent, compared with 48 percent in his first term. Asked how they'd vote today, people said 46 percent Clinton, 36 percent Bob Dole, 11 percent Ross Perot, just like 1996. "It was as if the name 'Lewinsky' had never been heard in the land," Klein writes.
HOW could this be? Editorial writers, pundits, righteous clerics were baffled. Had America lost its morals, its marbles? Klein suggests Clinton was a scapegoat, personifying pathologies of his society to relieve guilt so that change could happen. But he further suggests it was not society but Clinton's accusers who found in him what was "most embarrassing, troubling and loathsome about themselves." Among the accusers, three leaders in the Republican Congress turned out to have had adulterous liaisons, including Gingrich, who, after the loss of five seats in the House through his leadership, quit as speaker, left both the House and his wife and fled politics with his mistress. Meanwhile, the scapegoat escaped.
The public's laissez-faire attitude was, Klein says, unprecedented: people judging the Lewinsky affair as a "delicious, disgraceful, exploitative and ultimately private act of consensual sex." In the 1992 campaign, he says, voters liked Clinton's "unruly passions," his "vast, messy humanity," and didn't deny him the nomination for hanging out with the lounge singer Gennifer Flowers. In 1998 they decided the Lewinsky investigation was political, Starr was "a charmless fanatic," and they held the press in lower esteem than lawyers. Yet the toll was great. Time and opportunity lost to scandal generated disappointment within the White House: talent squandered, grand possibility aborted. Klein suggests Clinton's immense talents might have made him a great president, but "greatness in politics is rarely self-created; it is a consequence of trouble in the world. A leader without a crisis is usually consigned to the periphery of history." 
But Klein also notes that, against great odds, Clinton's achievements were substantial: "He had rescued the Democratic Party from irrelevance. . . . He performed the most important service that a leader can provide: he saw the world clearly and reacted prudently to the challenges he faced; he explained a complicated economic transformation to the American people and brought them to the edge of a new era." Klein quotes Clinton on his own achievement: "If you see a turtle sitting on top of a fence post, it didn't get there by accident" -- meaning, Klein says, that "the historic prosperity and the global peace that attended his time in office . . . were, at least in part, attributable to thousands of decisions . . . that Clinton and his advisers had made." Yet Klein suggests that the Clinton presidency was more about spin than leadership. "Clinton may have lost a great deal of moral authority well before Lewinsky by snuggling too close to us -- by polling every last public whim, by trying so hard to please. It is entirely possible that the Clinton era will be remembered by historians primarily as the moment when the distance between the president and the public evaporated forever."
But it can be argued that this closeness to the people was a unique revelation in modern politics: Bill Clinton exposed in a way no other president ever had been (Jack Kennedy's revelations were posthumous); all that confessionalism, that intimate testimony, a man who now wears his flaws on his sleeve, the most human president we've ever had. Do we like him? He's doing a great job. Give him 62 percent. A whirlwind president who led the people out of their innocence as surely as hippiedom and the pill nudged the nation into the age of inhaling and ready-to-wear hedonism. (Warren Harding brought his mistress into the Oval Office, but oral sex hadn't been invented yet.)
A politician I know well but won't name is fond of saying that righteousness doesn't stand a chance against the imagination. Bill Clinton's imagination has rendered null and void the sanctimony that passes for righteousness at election time; and he found a way to survive the harshest truths about himself. Joe Klein takes him to the end of his presidency and stops, but this is an unfinished story. The age of Clinton continues with Senator Hillary, and moving along with her is the maestro of impromptu narrative, whose nature we only think we know. The man is 55, and has moved past political fame into a status not yet defined: superstar, yes, but of what now? To be continued.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ian Schoenherr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); POLITICS (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); LITERATURE (71%); BESTSELLERS (71%); FOCUS GROUPS (69%); HISTORY (64%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%) KENNEDY, WILLIAM; KLEIN, JOE; CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



640 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2344 words

HEADLINE: Telecom, Tangled in Its Own Web 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
THANKS to a star-quality cast, the Enron wreck has been riveting theater. Greedy executives concocting transactions to inflate company earnings, grasping Wall Street bankers eager to assist, pliant accountants and analysts looking the other way -- Broadway's finest could not have come up with a better script.
 Yet while all eyes remain on Enron, a tragedy of identical plot but with far more damaging implications has been playing out on another stage. Unlike Enron's saga, this drama is not about a single, rogue company operating to enrich its executives. This tale is about an entire industry -- telecommunications -- that rose to a value of $2 trillion based on dubious promises by Wall Street and company executives of an explosive growth in demand for telecommunications services. When that demand failed to materialize, the companies were left with mountains of debt and little revenue. 
 Now, securities regulators are examining transactions among some telecom companies -- Global Crossing and Qwest Communications are two -- that may have been designed to pad inadequate revenue. Last week, Congress, too, started an investigation of the telecom mess, looking at how certain companies accounted for the deals they struck with one another and whether employees in the companies' 401(k) plans were treated fairly. 
As they dig, they may discover a trait that distinguishes this financial mess from others: the role played by an extensive web of relationships among these companies. Because of many deep and tangled ties, telecom companies were able to show what looked like promising growth in the mania's initial stages. But when demand from consumers and corporate customers of the networks failed to emerge, the ties among the companies exacerbated their declines. When one company failed, other failures became almost inevitable. 
It is unclear whether many of these interlocking relationships served any economic purpose. What is clear is that executives had incentives to forge them: by creating revenue, they helped keep the stock price up.
There is no doubt that the mess is large. Since the telecom sector peaked in the spring of 2000, some $1.4 trillion in investor wealth has evaporated, according to one analyst. More than 15 companies have filed for bankruptcy reorganization in the last year or so, including former highfliers like Global Crossing, which made the fourth-largest bankruptcy filing in American history in January, as well as 360 Networks, PSINet and Net2000 Communications. Many others in the industry are teetering. 
Even companies that seemed solid and well diversified have been hurt. Lucent Technologies and Nortel Networks, both generous financiers to upstart telecom companies that bought their equipment, have had to write off billions of dollars in bad debts associated with their customers' failures. 
Almost 400,000 jobs in the telecommunications sector have vanished as well, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas, the job placement concern. And the bloodletting is not slowing: telecom companies cut some 61,000 jobs in the first two months of 2002, up 42 percent from the toll during the comparable period last year. Adding to the injury, many of the sector's 401(k) plans -- filled as they were with company shares -- are in tatters.
"The underpinnings of the emerging telecom bubble were a phenomenal miscalculation," said David Barden, a telecommunications analyst at J. P. Morgan. "At the time it seemed like a logical progression of history: cellular, the Internet, the new thing. It was bold, it was risky, it was expensive. And it was wrong."
IN contrast to the implosion of Enron, which attracted front-page headlines, the disaster in telecommunications arrived stealthily. The failures occurred in slow motion over the last 18 months and have mostly involved smallish, lesser-known companies. But thanks to Enron, the haves and have-nots in the drama are depressingly familiar. Executives and shareholders lucky or prescient enough to get out early got rich as their companies' shares rocketed. Joseph P. Nacchio, chairman of Qwest, and Philip P. Anschutz, the co-chairman, have sold shares worth almost $2.3 billion since 1998. And James Q. Crowe, chief executive of Level 3 Communications, sold $115 million worth of stock from 1999 to 2001.
"Unlike the Internet, which was brand new, telecom had an aura of an established and understood technology," said Paul Elliott, an analyst at Thomson Financial. "This, in part, set the stage for this massive transfer of wealth to the new telecom barons, not only from gullible investors, but banks and lenders who presumably should have known better."
Workers and shareholders who did not get out were left without chairs when the music stopped. In the 401(k) at Qwest, for example, almost 40 percent of the assets were in Qwest stock at the end of 2000, the most recent filings available. Since then, the shares have lost almost 80 percent of their value. At Global Crossing, 29 percent of 401(k) assets were in the company's stock as of the end of that year. 
The telecom turmoil isn't over. Two years after the bubble popped, many companies in the industry are still operating on the edge, even more heavily encumbered with debt as a portion of their capitalization than they were when their stocks were flying high. Many now have little equity value but still carry onerous levels of debt. 
As a result, in recent months, Qwest, WorldCom, Sprint and AT&T have sharply reduced their operations, staffs and earnings forecasts. Smaller companies like XO Communications and Level 3 Communications are struggling to restructure the terms of their debt obligations to stave off bankruptcy. Just last week, Metromedia Fiber Networks warned that it might file for bankruptcy soon. 
REGULATORS, meanwhile, are focusing their investigations on how telecom companies accounted for certain transactions in which competitors swapped capacity on their networks. At issue is whether companies artificially inflated their earnings by striking deals that had no economic value but that appeared to produce immediate revenues to both parties.
At the center of this debacle stand the usual Wall Street enablers. Investment bankers raised money from investors for far more telecom networks than were economically feasible. Brokerage-firm analysts, eager to help their employers win ever more securities offerings, drummed up investor interest in untested companies.
Because these companies had neither revenue nor earnings, telecom analysts devised new rationales, new metrics, to justify the purchase of already overpriced stocks -- just as they did with Internet shares. 
The most popular method was to value the companies based on the money they had put into their networks -- money from investors, not money that the company had earned. Susan Kalla, a telecom analyst at Friedman Billings & Ramsey in New York, recalled when telecom shares were promoted by big brokerage firms as good values because they traded at prices that represented four or even five times what they had invested in plant and equipment. 
That argument, she said, "presumed that every penny that every company invested would produce the same rate of return."
"They really thought that if you put in the latest, fastest thing, that was enough to drive the business," she added. "It was crazy."
BUT for all its similarities to other debacles, the one in telecom is remarkable in a particular way: the hundreds of interlocking relationships -- all financial -- among the industry participants that perpetuated the spread of the collapse. As Mr. Barden of J. P. Morgan explained: "It turns out that the amount of revenues generated inside the telecommunication industry by other telecom participants was such a large percentage of the total that a small number of bankruptcies fueled a larger number of bankruptcies and the entire emerging structure started to collapse."
Noting early on how intertwined the fortunes of telecom companies were, Mr. Barden published an extensive research report last April called "The Matrix." In it he identified 184 relationships among 49 telecom companies. The ties fell into four categories: commercial, which included deals like leasing capacity on one company's network by another; strategic, which involved investments in competitors; equity, which referred to the purchases of shares in another company; and vendor financing, in which one company provided funds so that another could buy its products.
At the time of the report, each company in Mr. Barden's telecom matrix had ties to an average of four others in the industry. But some had far more. Metromedia Fiber Networks, for example, had sold fiber to 21 companies, making it an important dealer of the commodity. But because most of these deals were long-term leases, Metromedia's fate was inextricably tied to the health of these companies. Five of them have filed for bankruptcy, and others are in danger of failure. So it is not surprising that Metromedia recently warned that a bankruptcy filing of its own might be near.
In 1998 and 1999, during the early days of the telecom gold rush, such relationships were crucial for start-up companies; they knew that networks were expensive to build and that investors who financed them would have only so much patience before they began to demand returns. Rapid growth in revenue was therefore necessary, Mr. Barden explained, and the quickest route to it was through sharing of the networks that were being laid.
For example, in a 10-year deal worth $500 million and signed in 2000, Exodus Communications agreed to send half of its traffic to a network owned by Global Crossing. Conversely, Global Crossing owned $1.9 billion of Exodus shares that it had received from the sale of a subsidiary, Global Center, to Exodus.
The Exodus network did not attract enough traffic, however, and the company filed for bankruptcy last October. The loss of the Exodus deal contributed to Global Crossing's problems, which came to a head in January.
In another pact, dating to December 1998, Winstar Communications agreed to pay Williams Communications $640 million over seven years to use one of its networks, while Williams was to pay $400 million over four years to Winstar for some wireless capacity. After Winstar declared bankruptcy last April, Williams Communications estimated that it would lose $70 million in revenue that it had already booked from April 2000 through last December. Struggling under $5.2 billion in debt, Williams warned last month that it might file for bankruptcy soon. 
In November 2000, Level 3 Communications sold fiber infrastructure worth $250 million to McLeodUSA. McLeod also owns fibers on Level 3's network, thanks to its acquisition of Splitrock Communications in 1999. McLeod filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January, and Level 3 said recently that its declining revenue might violate terms of a bank covenant this year. That could ultimately force the company into technical default on some of its debt.
And just last week, Velocita, a private company led by Robert Annunziata, a former chief executive of Global Crossing, appeared to be in danger of defaulting on its debt. The company's plan to build a 20,000-mile telecom network was financed by, among others, Cisco Systems, which invested $200 million in the company and lent it an additional $285 million to help buy Cisco equipment.
While tying up with other companies in the industry helped all the players initially, the relationships also meant that most companies were offering the same services to potential customers. They could not differentiate themselves, and that can spell death when a field is crowded with competitors. 
As the accounting for some transactions is being questioned, these relationships are causing additional problems for telecommunications companies. Two weeks ago, Qwest announced that it had been contacted by the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its accounting treatment of long-term contracts it had struck to sell capacity on its high-speed voice and data networks to Global Crossing, whose accounting is also under investigation. Both companies say their accounting methods are proper.
Such swaps continued to be struck across the industry as recently as last year, long after the bubble began to lose air. Ms. Kalla estimates that telecom companies made swaps worth $2.5 billion in 2001. It is not yet clear how many of those swaps lacked a real business purpose. But some analysts wonder if these interlocking relationships were intended to overstate the true economic value of the businesses. Given that the companies were not generating nearly enough revenue to keep investors happy last year, there was certainly incentive to inflate results. 
ULTIMATELY, it became clear that increased demand for telecom services from consumers or corporate customers was not going to build. So the revenue pool wound up fairly static -- yet it had to be shared by many, many more hopefuls. 
"Every one of these companies assumed they were going to be the success story," Mr. Barden said. "So every one of them bulked up with every fiber optic cable they could get their hands on, every switch, every salesperson. All these companies built for success, and most of them, given the economic size of the market, were doomed to failure. Because at the end of the day, the dollars coming into the system were just not growing fast enough."
Bad as things have been in telecom, the worst may not be over. Ms. Kalla says that while the regional Bell operating companies are well-positioned, business will become grimmer for long-distance carriers. "If the capital markets close down in a business that is hugely capital intensive, then there is enormous turmoil until they can get costs in line with revenues," she said.
James Challenger, the outplacement authority, said: "Many of these companies have been through multiple rounds of layoffs, yet the industry is leading the way in 2002. This suggests that the excesses of the late 90's have yet to be purged."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A table on March 24 with an article about the complex relationships among telecommunications companies misstated the amount of stock in Global Crossing sold since 1997 by Hillel Weinberger, a former director. He personally sold $3,193,975 worth of shares, not $249.4 million. The rest was sold by companies with which he was affiliated.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An extensive network of relationships among telecommunications companies allowed them to show signs of growth, but later helped to drag down businesses as genuine consumer demand failed to emerge. (J. P. Morgan)(pg. 7); (Milan Trenc)(pg. 1) Chart: "Getting While the Getting Was Good"Some insiders at telecommunications companies made fortunes selling shares in their companies before the sector crashed. GLOBAL CROSSING Gary Winnick -- ChairmanVALUE OF STOCK SOLD SINCE 1997 (million): $734.0 Hillel Weinberger -- Former directorVALUE OF STOCK SOLD SINCE 1997 (million): 249.4 David L. Lee -- Former directorVALUE OF STOCK SOLD SINCE 1997 (million): 123.8 QWEST COMMUNICATIONS Philip F. Anschutz -- Co-chairmanVALUE OF STOCK SOLD SINCE 1997 (million): 1,974.4 Joseph P. Nacchio -- ChairmanVALUE OF STOCK SOLD SINCE 1997 (million): 300.7 Stephen M. Jacobsen -- Former executiveVALUE OF STOCK SOLD SINCE 1997 (million): 56.0 XO COMMUNICATIONS William A. Hoglund -- Former executiveVALUE OF STOCK SOLD SINCE 1997 (million): 108.7 Dennis M. Weibling -- DirectorVALUE OF STOCK SOLD SINCE 1997 (million): 105.4 Wayne M. Perry -- Former vice chairmanVALUE OF STOCK SOLD SINCE 1997 (million): 50.5 WORLDCOM Lawrence C. Tucker -- Former directorVALUE OF STOCK SOLD SINCE 1997 (million): 162.2 John W. Sidgmore -- Vice chairmanVALUE OF STOCK SOLD SINCE 1997 (million): 91.2 (Sources: Company reports; Thomson Financial)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); THEATER (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); SECURITIES LAW (68%); INSIDER TRADING (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (66%); US 401K PLANS (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (55%); HISTORY (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; INSIDER TRADING 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (61%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (61%); CENTURYLINK INC (58%); NET2000 COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GLOBAL CROSSING LTD; QWEST COMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL INC; WORLDCOM INC; XO COMMUNICATIONS INC 

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (61%); ALU (NYSE) (61%); ALU (BIT) (61%); CTL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (61%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (50%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: PHILIP ANSCHUTZ (54%) MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



641 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Buying Friends or Building Nations?

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico 

 BODY:
IT was a circumspect group of leaders that got together in Mexico last week to talk about world poverty. President Bush and his European counterparts pledged to spend more on aid, but they talked mostly about the strings they were attaching. International welfare often fails because recipients follow bad policies, they said. The poor should really look more to private investors than government aid. The rich, once and for all, have learned to deny money to corrupt or incompetent governments.
 When the leaders of the same countries gathered in Japan two months ago to talk about Afghanistan, they pledged $4.5 billion to support a government whose economic policies might be described, generously, as inchoate. The biggest check on corruption may be that the Taliban already robbed the central bank of its last afghani. Yet the only string attached to Afghanistan's aid was the promise that it would remain friendly to the United States -- and keep Osama bin Laden in the hills. 
 Ever since Harry S. Truman more or less invented the idea of peacetime foreign aid after World War II, it has come in two flavors. One kind is designed to help poor people. The other helps loyal people. One fosters growth. The other buys loyalty. 
In a few happy examples -- South Korea is one -- aid has served two purposes, shoring up an ally against Communism and prompting the creation of a successful democratic, capitalist nation. However noble the intentions of donor nations, though, finding effective ways to help poor countries grow often takes second place to strategic necessities.
The worst example may be the billions squandered on Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire to keep him out of Soviet hands. Central America, sub-Saharan Africa, Southwest Asia, Southeast Asia and the former Soviet Union are also areas where aid has been used more for devotion than development.
Now, terrorism is the new global threat motivating President Bush and European leaders to pump billions into aid budgets that have languished since the end of the cold war. The question is whether they have learned from past mistakes. The answer is a qualified maybe.
During the cold war, American presidents often spoke of the need to win the hearts and minds of people in poor countries, but they often settled for the hearts and minds of their leaders.
TERRORISM may turn out to be different. Osama bin Laden selected the poorest countries in the world, Afghanistan and Somalia, in which to base his operations. But he did not run those countries, and his recruits came from among millions of destitute Muslims living in places that the United States considers close allies. In other words, the only way development can be an antidote to terrorism is if it actually works.
So it happened that even as Mr. Bush announced that he would increase America's aid budget by 50 percent over the next several years, to $15 billion a year by 2006, he took a gimlet-eyed view of traditional aid.
"For decades, success of development aid was measured only in resources spent, not in results achieved," Mr. Bush told other leaders on Friday in Monterrey. "Pouring money into a status quo does little to help the poor."
Mr. Bush has set up a so-called challenge account that will hand out grants to developing countries based on how well they manage their economies. Those that respect the rule of law, keep markets open and provide good education and health benefits to their people will get aid. Many others will get nothing. Surprisingly, this is a novel idea. Countries will get money from the account only when they show they can use it well, not just because they are poor.
The problem is what happens when these plans clash with strategic priorities. Here, the warning signs are abundant. 
Afghanistan is just one of the countries that would never win a dime from the challenge account. Yet it will probably get more aid over the next few years than any other poor country, on both humanitarian and strategic grounds.
Both the United States and Europe have also offered hundreds of millions of dollars in unrestricted budgetary support, and billions more in debt relief, to help Pakistan's president, Pervez Musharraf, fend off Islamic fundamentalists. And if a recent agreement on aid to Egypt -- which the United States regards as a moderate Arab nation -- is any indication, it will remain the single largest recipient of American aid in the developing world (second to Israel overall), despite the fact that it is hardly a model of development.
"There is always a risk that terrorism could end up politicizing aid," said James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank. Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill also acknowledges that strategic interests will continue to dictate how a great deal of aid is doled out.
BUT both officials said they were optimistic that this time the ethos of aid has changed. Monterrey, they say, is a turning point, an unprecedented accord between rich and poor on the best uses of aid that will reverberate for years. "This is step-up time -- for our own account, too," Mr. O'Neill said. "It is about how to make aid work, not just talk about it."
Still, now as before, the real challenge of foreign aid, as far charity, may be the willingness to say no.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Germany was rebuilt after World War II with help from the Marshall Plan, a successful foreign aid program. (The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TERRORISM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); AL-QAEDA (88%); COLD WAR (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); WORLD WAR II (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); TALIBAN (75%); HIJACKING (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (62%); RELIGION (50%) TERRORISM; FOREIGN AID; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (88%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); MEXICO (93%); ASIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SOMALIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); GERMANY (73%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%) PAKISTAN; EGYPT; AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



642 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: DONOR WON PRAISE IN ENERGY REPORT 

BYLINE:  By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
In Chapter 5 of Vice President Dick Cheney's national energy report, executives of the once-moribund nuclear power industry were probably thrilled to read that the White House supported "the expansion of nuclear power in the United States as a major component of our national energy policy."
 The energy report had embraced a wide array of proposals that the executives advanced in private meetings with Mr. Cheney and documents submitted to members of the task force that formulated a national energy policy. 
 One such proposal was the development of a new nuclear reactor designed to produce electricity -- a gas-cooled reactor built on tennis-ball-size graphite spheres -- that the report said "has inherent safety features."
"The industry has an interest in this," the report said, "and other advanced reactor designs." 
But only one company, the Exelon Corporation of Chicago, which provided hundreds of thousands of dollars to Republican campaigns in recent years, has an interest in promoting the so-called pebble-bed reactor. 
Exelon, the nation's largest nuclear energy company, is the only American corporation developing a design for the pebble-bed reactor, which it says will lead to a new generation of cheaper, smaller and more efficient nuclear reactors. The company says the pebble-bed reactor will be safer, too, though environmentalists in the United States and in other countries have sharply disputed this, calling the pebble-bed reactor a failed system vulnerable to terrorist attack.
The May 2001 national energy report is filled with dozens of positive assessments of proposed new technologies, including nuclear designs and wind-generated power. Most of those assessments favor sectors of various industries, and some undoubtedly favor individual corporations. 
But it is impossible to know how and why the task force endorsed most of those proposals, and which corporations they help, because Mr. Cheney has steadfastly refused to release the names of industry executives who advised the energy task force as it was researching and compiling its report.
Next week, more than 14,000 pages of documents related to the task force will be released by the Energy Department, which was ordered by a federal judge to make the material public under the Freedom of Information Act. The Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmentalist group, had sued for the information. 
The General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, has sued Mr. Cheney for a list of industry executives who advised the task force. 
The administration's endorsement of Exelon's technology was learned through interviews and documents provided to The New York Times by the corporation itself.
Although Exelon's name is not mentioned in the energy report, its executives lobbied the task force on the benefits of the pebble-bed design. 
The task force's endorsement of the reactor was contained in a single paragraph. But a paragraph in a national energy report, like a sentence in a State of the Union Message or a line in a legislative bill, can be a huge boon to a corporation.
Don Kirchoffner, a spokesman for Exelon, said campaign contributions had nothing to do with the pebble-bed reactor's mention in the report. "We didn't influence anybody," Mr. Kirchoffner said. 
Using the initials of the Pebble Bed Modular Reactor, he added: "I don't think that it's correct to connect dots between contributions the company made and the fact something on P.B.M.R. appeared in the national energy policy. The P.B.M.R. is just an example of the advanced nuclear technology that everybody says we need."
For Exelon, the paragraph was seen as "a good thing," Mr. Kirchoffner said, but he insisted that the mention of the reactor's design did not necessarily represent a boon for the corporation.
"A good thing for the industry and the country was the fact that the administration came out with a recommendation for new forms of nuclear power, and our pebble-bed modular reactor is a byproduct of that," Mr. Kirchoffner said. "We just happened to have it. They took a look at what we gave them and they said this kind of makes sense."
Exelon owns and operates about 20 percent of the nation's nuclear capacity. Its co-chief executives, John W. Rowe and Corbin A. McNeill Jr., who has since retired, were among a group of about 75 energy executives who met with Mr. Cheney in March 2001. Along with other participants of the Nuclear Energy Institute, the industry's trade group, Mr. McNeill also met that month with Karl Rove, President Bush's chief strategist, and Lawrence B. Lindsey, the president's top economic adviser. 
That information was revealed by Exelon officials, not the White House.
Critics of the task force have noted that many companies represented at its meetings gave financial support to the Bush campaign or the Republican Party in the 2000 election. Exelon was no exception.
Exelon, its executives and its political action committee, gave the Republican Party a total of $564,661 in the two years before the 2000 election. Last year, Exelon increased its donations to the Republican Party, giving it a total of $347,514, according to Federal Election Commission reports.
Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, a frequent critic of the administration's energy policies, said: "The more we learn about the Cheney task force, the easier it is to understand why the White House is fighting so hard to keep everything secret. The biggest donors didn't just have the best access -- it now appears they were allowed to write specific sections of the administration's energy plan."
Anne Womack, a spokesman for the White House, disputed the notion that campaign contributions were responsible for the endorsement of Exelon's reactor design.
"Advanced reactor technology would increase our energy supply and do it in a way that is safe and clean," Ms. Womack said. "That benefits not only the industry but the American people."
Ms. Womack also said that the task force had consulted "a broad variety of groups, including industry, unions, environmental groups and consumer groups."
"They all had input, and the product of all the input is in the report," Ms. Womack said.'
More than 400 corporations and groups sought meetings with the energy task force last spring. About half that number were granted access, a group that included 158 energy companies and corporate trade associations, 22 labor unions, 13 environmental groups and a consumer organization, task force staff members have said. 
Some environmental groups and Congressional Democrats have complained that industry executives -- and, in particular, executives from corporations that supported the Republican Party -- received far more time and had greater influence than environmental groups.
On Friday, Mr. Waxman released a study that identified 65 provisions in the energy report that he said benefit donors to the Republican Party who had met with task force members or Mr. Cheney last year.
The pebble-bed reactor has attracted sharp criticism from environmentalists as being unsafe and vulnerable to terrorist attack.
"There are many safety problems with this reactor," said Carl Pope, the executive director of the Sierra Club. "It's not safe, and it's certainly not clean. It has already failed once, in Germany. 
"And this pebble-bed facility is not going to have a containment shell. It will be a terrorist target just sitting out there waiting for someone. This is just not sensible."
Exelon lobbied the task force on the safety and economic benefits of its design, according to interviews and several documents turned over to the task force. 
Exelon provided The New York Times with two documents that the company submitted to the task force that had not been made public by Mr. Cheney: a pamphlet describing the pebble-bed reactor and a one-page description of the reactor's benefits.
The document begins, "Exelon Corporation believes that we have found a technology that possesses the characteristics necessary to successfully compete in a deregulated environment in the P.B.M.R., a design under development in South Africa."
The document argues that the reactor is "safe, economic and clean."
"We provided it to them," Mr. Kirchoffner said of the single-page document. "I can't tell you what they did with it."
The pebble-bed reactor would be cooled by helium, in contrast to the water-cooled reactors now used in the United States. The plant has fewer moving parts and requires a smaller crew, making its operations less prone to problems, the company said.
Exelon has a 12.5 percent interest in the project with Eskom, the state-owned utility in South Africa, the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa, a state-owned investment firm, and B.N.F.L., the former British Nuclear Fuels Limited. The partnership is studying the feasibility of the pebble-bed reactor, company officials said.
In its papers submitted to the task force, Exelon wrote that the technology "is an evolutionary improvement of a proven design previously utilized in Germany." But several environmentalists said that the Germany prototype failed.
"When you build a design on a proven failure, you are likely to get another failure," Mr. Pope said.
Mr. Kirchoffner said company executives were somewhat less enthusiastic about the pebble-bed reactor today than they were a year ago.
"As a result of the decrease in natural gas prices, and the economy and the less than favorable weather, things have changed since then," he said. "We are being very disciplined now in our approach to looking at P.B.M.R., which may be a lot farther off than it was a year ago."
But the pebble-bed design is still scheduled to be reviewed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission soon. This month, the commission announced that the design was submitted for its approval by Eskom, the South Africa utility.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Sunday with a front-page article about the Bush administration's endorsement of nuclear technology promoted by the Exelon Corporation referred incorrectly in some copies to the lawmaker who has received the most in campaign contributions from Exelon since 1999. He is Representative Timothy V. Johnson, Republican of Illinois, not Senator Tim Johnson, who is a South Dakota Democrat.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry A. Waxman of California is a critic of Bush energy policies. (Associated Press)(pg. 38) Chart: "THE COST: Contributing to Congress's Energy Committee Leadership"Since it began promoting its pebble-bed nuclear reactor technology, Exelon Corporation, formerly known as Commonwealth Edison, has vastly increased the amount it contributes to political campaigns. Total Exelon contributions by partyTwo-year election cycles Graph tracking the total Exelon contributions to the Democratic and Republican parties since 1992. Top five recipients of Exelon contributions since 1999 NAME: Representative Timothy V. JohnsonPARTY: Rep.COMMITTEE: Member, House Committee on Science; serves in Exelon's stateAMOUNT: $13,500 NAME: Representative Joe BartonPARTY: Rep.COMMITTEE: Chairman, House Subcommittee on Energy and Air QualityAMOUNT: 11,000 NAME: Senator Jeff BingamanPARTY: Dem.COMMITTEE: Chairman, Senate Committee on Energy and Natural ResourcesAMOUNT: 9,000 NAME: Representative John D. DingellPARTY: Dem.COMMITTEE: Ranking Democrat, House Committee on Energy and CommerceAMOUNT: 8,000 NAME: Representative Donald ManzulloPARTY: Rep.COMMITTEE: Chairman, House Small Business Committee; serves in Exelon's stateAMOUNT: 8,000 (Sources: Center for Responsive Politics; Federal Election Commission)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); LOBBYING (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ETHICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); WIND ENERGY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); TERRORISM (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); LITIGATION (65%); JUDGES (60%); WIND POWER PLANTS (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) ENERGY AND POWER; ATOMIC ENERGY; ENERGY EFFICIENCY; SUITS AND LITIGATION; GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICIES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ETHICS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

COMPANY: EXELON CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%) EXELON CORP; GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE; ENERGY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: EXC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); HENRY WAXMAN (73%) CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); VAN NATTA, DON JR; WAXMAN, HENRY A (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



643 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Peru Support Of Free Trade Draws Praise In Bush Visit 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, March 23 

 BODY:
Peru's economy is stumbling, and the president's popularity has plummeted. The war on drugs shows signs of stalling, and a long-dormant rebel group may be restive again, as evidenced by a bombing here on Wednesday.
 But the government of President Alejandro Toledo is still viewed by the United States as democratic and reform-minded, a world away from the authoritarian government of Alberto Fujimori, who was toppled 17 months ago in a corruption scandal. Indeed, in many ways, Peru is better off than neighbors like Colombia, with its intensifying drug-fueled war, and Argentina, where default on a $141 billion debt brought down the government. 
 So in visiting here today, President Bush demonstrated his support for President Toledo, whose administration has made its mark by trying to reform Peru's troubled institutions while sticking to the principles of free trade so cherished by the United States.
"I've been impressed by his commitment to democracy and his determination to improve the lives of the people of Peru," Mr. Bush said this evening in a news conference after meeting with his Peruvian counterpart. Mr. Bush added that he was "inspired by his life, inspired by his story," referring to Mr. Toledo's rise from a shoeshine boy to a position in the World Bank to president of this country of 25 million.
Mr. Bush's visit came at an important time for Mr. Toledo, who won office last July but whose approval rating in national polls has tumbled to just 25 percent, down from around 55 percent, as promises to bring jobs and prosperity have foundered. That has concerned officials in Washington, who worry about stability here and in other Andean countries. 
"Right now, the loss of confidence is serious," said Alfredo Torres, director of Apoyo, a Lima polling company. "And the danger is for that lack of confidence to translate into a lack of confidence in democracy."
Today, though, Mr. Toledo enjoyed the limelight, taking Mr. Bush through a color guard on national television before entering the ornate government palace, where the American leader met with Mr. Toledo and leaders from three other Andean countries, Bolivia, Colombia and Ecuador. Mr. Toledo joked about how both men had good taste in ties -- they both coincidentally wore the same powder blue ties -- and stressed that both had "the same energy and stubbornness" to deal with difficult problems.
Mr. Bush, for his part, helped Mr. Toledo by telling reporters that he remained firmly committed to pushing the American Congress to renew a regional trade pact that has created thousands of jobs in agriculture and small-scale manufacturing in Peru and its neighbors.
The pact expired in December.
That agreement, the Andean Trade Preference Act, has for a decade lowered tariffs for 6,000 products from Peru and the other Andean countries. Now Andean leaders are urging Washington to now only renew the deal, but to expand it to cover more products, like high-quality cottons from Peru, canned tuna from Ecuador and footwear from Colombia.
"The Andean trade pact is a cornerstone of good policy," Mr. Bush said. "It is the cornerstone of good relations."
The trade pact is considered a matter of "life or death" for this country, as one Peruvian trade minister recently told reporters, because it is believed to have provided legal jobs for people who would otherwise work in drug-related enterprises. The Preference Act, in fact, was created expressly for that reason, with the Andean countries agreeing to cooperate with Washington's drug war in exchange for tariff breaks. 
Indeed, while the United States often focuses on drug trafficking and security issues, particularly now that Mr. Bush has declared a world-wide war on terrorism, the Andean countries prefer to talk of trade and economic aid, analysts say.
"The Peruvians care more about alpaca than Al Qaeda," said Michael Shifter, who tracks the region for the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington policy analysis group.
Some Peruvian political experts say that since the American Congress is the ultimate arbiter on the Preference Act, Mr. Bush's trip is mainly symbolic.
"There are few solutions being offered," said Javier Diez Canseco, a member of Congress. "This visit is just a political act, an expression of confidence, but only true gestures lead to economic and social advances."
Peruvian government officials are very much aware that high expectations could prove illusory. 
Diego Garcia-Sayan, the foreign minister, warned his countrymen in recent days, saying, "President Bush's visit is not a visit by Santa Claus." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); TRENDS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); SCANDALS (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); POLITICS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); CORRUPTION (56%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) TOLEDO, ALEJANDRO (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FORERO, JUAN; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); COLOMBIA (92%); ECUADOR (79%); BOLIVIA (79%) PERU

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



644 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: Central America Waiting To Reap Beneifts of Peace 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR, March 23 

 BODY:
The United States lavished money and concern on El Salvador during its 12-year civil war, and in the decade since the fighting ended, Jose Jacobo Jimenez has held fast to the idea that this nation's hard-fought democracy must still matter to Washington. 
 "Today, El Salvador is united with the United States," said Mr. Jimenez, a security guard. "They should take us into account." 
 He really wants the United States to take him in. The needs here are deep and lingering, he said: too much crime and not enough jobs or housing. Like many Salvadorans, Mr. Jimenez has found the rewards of peace and political loyalty to be elusive. He now hopes the United States will remember the past by allowing him to move there. 
"Everything is difficult here," Mr. Jimenez said. "We'd like to go there because you can work better. The hard part is getting there."
When President Bush arrives here on Sunday for a Central American summit meeting on free trade, security and migration, he will encounter a region transformed yet stubbornly familiar. During the last decade, peace accords ended grisly cold war conflicts between authoritarian governments and Marxist guerrillas, and made way for nascent democracies where the former combatants trade political barbs, not bullets. Human rights are generally respected, armies have been scaled back and civilians dominate the political discourse.
But the disillusionment of people like Mr. Jimenez, who thought life after war would be safe and prosperous, is also part of the American legacy. Violent crime plagues large cities, and despair afflicts countless peasant farmers who have suffered drought, official neglect and plummeting prices for their crops. 
Courts and prosecutors struggle to reform justice systems as people clamor for safer streets and an end to the impunity enjoyed by organized criminals, corrupt officials and past violators of human rights, including some who were once allies of Washington in the fight against Communism.
For Mr. Bush, whose administration includes several officials who guided United States policy in Central America in the 1980's, this trip is intended to send a clear signal that the region has not drifted into the shadows after Sept. 11 and remains a valued ally. Central American leaders have been buoyed by the visit, hoping for a trade pact to bolster their economies and extensions of protected immigrant status for their countrymen in the United States who send home much-needed dollars. 
However, taking a hard look at President Bush's political priorities, Central Americans are coming to realize that this isthmus of small countries is unlikely to regain the importance it once commanded.
"The 80's were a strange episode where the United States was concerned about Soviet advances in the third world at the same moment that the region experienced social revolution," said William M. LeoGrande, a professor of government at American University. "The U.S. focused intently on the region for that. There is a feeling that the U.S. put a lot of money and attention to the region during the war and in some sense helped fuel the war. In a sense, we owe the region more for reconstruction." 
Those who supported the anti-Communist policies of the United States see today's Central America as a vindication of their efforts. In El Salvador, Nicaragua and Guatemala, wars ended, elections were held and free-market changes were adopted to attract investment. Political dissent no longer brings a swift death sentence.
The region's governments value good relations with the United States and have pledged to help fight terrorism and drugs. American troops have returned to assist in counternarcotics efforts, even in Nicaragua, where reservists have run training exercises and provided aid.
"There is genuine peace," said a senior United States official. "The three countries that had wars have had one election after another, clean and in peace, and the results have been respected. This is a major step forward." 
Yet the past continues to haunt the region. The crime wave is fueled by easy access to weapons left over from war. Political parties born of the cold war conflict have been unable to move beyond old divisions to win the allegiance of an increasingly cynical public. 
Perhaps nowhere are the challenges as daunting as in Guatemala, where a 36-year war left some 200,000 dead, mostly at the hands of the government. A peace accord full of bold language and optimism ended the shooting but it has hardly brought tranquillity. 
Human rights groups have repeatedly been subjected to intimidation, break-ins and surveillance. Earlier this month 11 forensic anthropologists, who helped unearth evidence used in cases against present and former officials accused of genocide, received death threats. A member of an opposition party was murdered.
Although President Alfonso Portillo came to office promising to dismantle a military intelligence group linked to assassinations and human rights abuses, he has not. A shadowy alliance of former and present military officers is believed to be involved in organized crime, including drug trafficking. In a sign that civilian rule remains tentative, a recent directive requires local police commanders to submit daily reports to military officers.
Mr. Portillo faces mounting criticism over the recent disclosure that he and several close associates opened bank accounts in Panama. 
Efforts to carry out the peace accords have "stalled because the government has had no will since they were signed," said Jaime Reina, a college student. "It was all a show."
A different hurdle faces Nicaragua, where the United States backed an army of contra rebels that fought the Sandinista government until it ultimately called free elections in 1990. The divisions of the past, while peaceful, nonetheless continue to be the defining political framework.
Memories of economic free fall, confiscation of property and forced military service under the Sandinistas are fresh in the minds of opponents and their backers. Those recollections were encouraged by American officials during last year's presidential election, when Daniel Ortega, the former Sandinista president, lost to a longtime nemesis, Enrique Bolanos, the Liberal Party candidate.
Mr. Bolanos has vowed to root out corruption, and he may already have a target in former President Arnoldo Aleman, who has been tainted by accusations of cozy land deals and a recent scandal involving the theft of hundreds of millions of dollars from a television station. 
El Salvador comes out looking like the region's postwar success story. The peace accords there, brokered by the United Nations, led to essential reforms that included reducing the size of the army, demobilizing the guerrillas and establishing a civilian police force.
For a while they also propelled the country into a period of robust economic growth, with businesses competing to meet long pent-up consumer demands. Foreign-owned apparel factories came with thousands of jobs for a people famed throughout the region as hard workers.
El Salvador "is a small place and to the extent it was known in the world, it was known for its civil war," said a Western diplomat. Now, the diplomat added, "it is probably the most successful United Nations peacekeeping effort in history." 
Yet even here people fear for their safety in the face of lawlessness, as the years after the peace accords turned out to be almost as violent as the civil war. Kidnappings became common, and not just among the rich, with people sometimes held hostage for a few hundred dollars. 
While soldiers were dismissed and rebels demobilized, governments did not do enough to provide them with land or jobs, said Laura Chinchilla, the former minister of security for Costa Rica. A culture of violence that helped many survive in war fostered the growth of organized criminal gangs. The situation has been complicated by a United States policy of deporting criminals, including many street gang members. 
Security has become crucial for democracy, Ms. Chinchilla said. "If we do not see a successful response to that," she said, "there is a temptation on the part of citizens and government to resort to authoritarian measures." 
United States officials, criticized for neglecting the region in recent years, have begun to warn governments that they should not use the fight against terrorism as a pretext to roll back democratic reforms. 
President Bush has also emphasized that corruption will not be tolerated in the name of national security. Last week, to back that up, the State Department revoked the visa of a retired Guatemalan general and adviser to Mr. Portillo who is suspected of drug trafficking.
"I have always believed that the source of instability in Central America was not poverty, but the lack of democracy," said Robert A. Pastor, a former National Security Council official and a professor of political science at Emory University. "Now that the countries are democratic, but of a very fragile nature, this is the moment we could have the most decisive impact on their long-term security."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Children at an orphanage in San Salvador prepare American flags for a visit on Sunday by President Bush. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); COLD WAR (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); VIOLENT CRIME (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PASTOR, ROBERT A; GONZALEZ, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CENTRAL AMERICA (95%); EL SALVADOR (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) EL SALVADOR; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



645 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Tourists to the Rescue Of a Wounded City; 
New York Finds Sympathy a Powerful Draw

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
The destruction of the World Trade Center has emerged as a powerful selling point for New York City, invoked again and again over the last six months to make the case that big events like the Super Bowl, the Grammy Awards ceremony and a proposed joint meeting of Congress all belong in New York.
 It was used to attract the World Economic Forum to Manhattan. Coca-Cola Company shareholders will meet here next month for the first time. On Tuesday, a major national technology association announced that it would hold its annual awards ceremony here in July. The events of Sept. 11 have inspired trial lawyers, travel agents, television station managers and others to plan conventions and conferences in New York. 
 The argument goes like this: Bringing an event like the Super Bowl to New York City will stimulate tourism and help the city and the country recover; it will be an expression of solidarity with New Yorkers; it will strike a blow against terrorism; it will enable visitors to share in the New York spirit. 
The case being made is striking in its appeal, in part, to sympathy for the purpose of drumming up tourist business. It appears to link notions of patriotism and civic duty to things like hotel bookings. It centers for once not on the glamour of New York, but on its most tragic moment.
"They are using the tragedy implicitly and explicitly to lure people," said Marshall Blonsky, who teaches semiotics at New York University and Parsons School of Design. "And I think that it's going to work. Especially inasmuch as there hasn't been a second strike."
It is not easy to find a clear precedent. After the 1995 bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah building in Oklahoma City, tourism officials there said they went out of their way not to appear to market or promote what had happened, out of sensitivity to the feelings of survivors and victims' families.
But that bombing did not have the economic impact of the trade center attack. In New York City, where the tourism and convention industry is said to have supported 282,000 jobs in 2000, tourism officials estimate that several billion dollars in revenues and 30,000 industry jobs have been lost.
The most visible spokesman for bringing big events to New York has been Charles E. Schumer, the state's senior senator, who has made the argument for New York in pursuit of the Super Bowl, the World Economic Forum, the Grammys and the annual meeting of the Democratic Policy Committee.
"I talk to them about our need for their help, in our time of need," Senator Schumer said, describing his conversations with various organizers. "The whole world wants to show that they are at one with New York. This is a tangible way to do it. With benefits for the visitees and the visitors."
United States Representative Vito J. Fossella, who represents Staten Island, said he had repeatedly urged House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert to consider holding a joint meeting of Congress in New York as a gesture of support.
This month, Mr. Hastert announced that he favored the idea. On Friday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg tentatively set the date for Sept. 6.
NYC & Company, the city's convention and visitors bureau, has put together a spreadsheet to track what one bureau official called the "new patriotic meetings" -- at last count, two dozen conventions and conferences said to have been channeled to New York City at least in part because of Sept. 11.
The list includes a meeting of the United States Conference of Mayors held this past January; and gatherings of magazine publishers, engineers, pharmaceutical company executives, trial lawyers, a labor union, meeting planners and others, all of whom tourism officials say opted spontaneously to meet in New York.
On Tuesday, the World Technology Network announced that it would hold its annual World Technology Summit and World Technology Awards here. The event, which will take place in July at the Millennium Broadway hotel and the United Nations, is expected to bring hundreds of visitors to New York. "New York was the obvious choice for holding this year's summit, for many reasons," said James Clark, the founder and chairman of the World Technology Network, based in London.
William A. Maloney, executive vice president and chief operating officer of the American Society of Travel Agents, said his board voted unanimously in late September to move the society's meeting to New York from Seville, Spain. The meeting, held in November, drew 4,000 people.
"New York is a metaphor for our industry," Mr. Maloney said, listing the curiously commingled motives behind the choice. "It was the symbolism of helping our compatriots in New York, but also the symbolism that travel agents must lead the way to travel. Travel is an inherent right, and we cannot let it be taken away."
NYC & Company actively pursued another event, the International Pow Wow, a gigantic international travel-industry trade show organized by the Travel Industry Association of America. Though host cities are usually picked years in advance, the city that was chosen for 2005, Houston, dropped out last fall.
"We immediately called T.I.A.," Cristyne L. Nicholas, president of NYC & Company, recalled. "We said we really want to be in the running for Pow Wow for 2005. We said we think that this would help with the recovery."
The 2005 Pow Wow is now set for New York.
One of the biggest events that some New Yorkers have their eye on is the 2012 Summer Olympics; New York is one of four American cities competing to be the host city. But Sept. 11 and its aftermath have not generally been raised as an argument in New York's favor.
"We have specifically not invoked it with respect to the Olympics," said Daniel Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, who previously led the group in charge of the bid. "In fact, we have expressly avoided even the appearance that we are attempting to benefit in any way from Sept. 11."
Asked to elaborate, he said, "Because somehow we think that to court favor based on a tragedy is wrong." Specifically he said, it would be inconsistent with the spirit of the Olympic Games.
Some have questioned the validity of the 9/11 argument in the case of other major events. Mike Bayham, a councilman in St. Bernard Parish, a suburb of New Orleans, strongly objected to Senator Schumer's push to bring the Super Bowl to New York last January when plans to hold it in New Orleans briefly hit a snag.
Tourism is suffering everywhere, Mr. Bayham said recently; cities like New Orleans also need help. He argued that the country had "really stepped up to the plate already" for New York.
"New York was where the people died, but everyone felt the impact of 9/11," he said.
But others say the 9/11 argument is simply smart marketing. "I don't think there is anything inherently immoral or unethical about what they're doing," said Lauren Schlau, who owns a Los Angeles consulting firm that does market research for convention and visitors bureaus and state travel offices. "Frankly, I think it's savvy."
She added: "I think it strikes a chord with a lot of people. I think people in the United States feel they want to help New York. Not out of guilt and not out of obligation, but out of maybe conviction, too, that if they help New York now and something else happens somewhere else, there may be a similar response. So it's an investment."
How long the argument will work remains to be seen. Representative Fossella suggested it would certainly remain appropriate within the first year after the attack. 
Meryl Mayo, whose husband, Robert, died in the trade center attack, said she had mixed feelings about many of the ways in which Sept. 11 was being used. She said families were having difficulty healing because Sept. 11 was ubiquitous and inescapable; yet it is also crucial to keep it in the public eye.
"I think New York City is the center of the world," said Mrs. Mayo, who said she personally knows many people who have lost jobs in the last six months. "I think it has to get back on its feet. And if it has to be on the back of 9/11, then so be it."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TOURISM (74%); LAWYERS (74%); BOMBINGS (72%); HIJACKING (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); TRAVEL AGENTS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); TRENDS (66%); AIRLINES (65%); EMPLOYMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; PUBLIC OPINION; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (72%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (72%)

PERSON: VITO FOSSELLA (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) SCOTT, JANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



646 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: Silver-Screen Studies 

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA GRANDJEAN 

 BODY:
TALKING about movies. That's never more of a pleasure than when with Jeanine Basinger, chairwoman of the film studies program at Wesleyan University in Middletown. 
 She said she feels "A Beautiful Mind" is likely to win the Oscar for best picture at tonight's Academy Awards. 
 "Director Ron Howard places us subjectively in the experience of schizophrenia without letting us know that's what he's doing," she said. "You don't see that kind of intelligent use of the medium much anymore. It's the kind of uplifting film that the Academy likes to give the Oscar to." 
But the voters have other movies to consider: "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring" ("Very cinematic," she said. "An old-fashioned, high-quality piece of filmmaking.") or "Gosford Park" ("Beautiful looking and intelligent, but it's the kind of film that lulls you to sleep.") or "Moulin Rouge" ("Really nothing new, and what's the point of making a musical when your stars can't sing?").
You would think Mrs. Basinger, 66, would have been exhausted on a recent day, her nerves frayed. She had spent most of the day holding office hours, a weekly ritual during which her film students often line up 20-deep at her door for academic advice. 
"I have a sign-up list; it's like a pick-a-number thing," she said. In another couple of hours she would meet with architects concerning the development of a new campus Center for Film Studies. Construction on the building is to begin in September.
Also awaiting her attention were any number of the 100 or so requests she receives via e-mail messages every week: for print interviews and broadcasts requiring her film expertise, from anxious parents wanting help getting their children into Wesleyan and from Hollywood directors and screenwriters looking for advice on their latest projects.
Instead, in conversation, she is at ease, passionate and down to earth, as respectful of another film fan's opinion as she is eager to express her own. 
These are qualities that have long endeared her to the Time magazine film critic Richard Schickel, a fellow movie enthusiast, film historian and producer of television documentaries on film. Mr. Schickel said he has "endless" chats with her four or five times a year.
"She calls us 'movie bozos,' " he said, laughing, and pointed out that Mrs. Basinger's nine books and countless articles on film have served to elevate discourse while avoiding pretension. 
"Nine-tenths of what comes out of academia is unreadable," he said. "So I think of Jeanine as a lonely voice, a writer whose work satisfies all the standards of scholarship, but at the same time can be read with pleasure by people who have a general interest in the movies. I've never seen her teach, but I suspect she can do something very important, which is bring film history to life for her students. She can talk about the pleasures and absurdities of all movies in a way that would be appealing to kids."
Mrs. Basinger's 10th book, "Stardom," is under way. In it, she said, she will examine the erstwhile Hollywood studio practice of grooming young actors for fame.
From the late 1970's up until last year, when Wesleyan hired two new tenure-track film professors, Mrs. Basinger occupied the demanding position of being the only full-time faculty member in the discipline. Film courses have been taught since the early 1960's, but usually by members of the English, foreign languages, anthropology and American studies departments. It was Mrs. Basinger who, having joined the staff as a teaching assistant in 1969, acted as a key guiding force in designing the fully developed film studies major that was finally established in the 1980's. 
To this day, she said, she believes the interdisciplinary nature of Wesleyan's program is one of its greatest strengths.
"Wesleyan represents the old-fashioned liberal arts tradition," she said. "Our film students know music and literature, take science courses, study economics. About 60 percent of our more than 70 film students are double majors, two of whom are studying film and physics." 
Unlike other college film programs, majors are not polarized into separate "theory vs. practice" camps. "Students here have to analyze films and study their history, but they also have to make them," Mrs. Basinger said.
She calls herself a "old-fashioned, rigid" teacher. 
"I don't give incompletes, don't permit absences, don't let anyone come late," she said.
At the same time, she never assigns her students a writing project that she also doesn't complete herself. Nor does she hand back any paper without a single-spaced, full page of comments. 
"Mine is a profession in which every day, you go into a room and give away absolutely everything you've got," she said. "Since film is still not often taken seriously as an academic discipline, those who teach it bring an extra jolt of passion to the process, and students respond to that."
Former Wesleyan film students praise the richness of their training. However, Joss Whedon, class of '87 -- creator of the TV series "Buffy, the Vampire Slayer" and "Angel" -- acknowledged that, "Jeanine inspires fear, big fear." 
He also said that the hallmark of her teaching style is its interactivity. "She would give lectures so dense with information and insight that I could barely follow them," Mr. Whedon said. "But she's also there to learn from her students, and I've worked with brilliant teachers who aren't, who are only there to spew what they've brilliantly figured out." 
Graduates of the film program who have gone on to success in Hollywood careers are known as the "Wesleyan mob." 
In addition to Mr. Whedon, their ranks include Larry Mark (producer of "Jerry Maguire" and "As Good As It Gets"), Jeffrey Lane (creator of the TV series "Mad About You"), Michael Bay (director of "Pearl Harbor" and "Armageddon"), actors Dana Delany and Brad Whitford, Miguel Arteta (director of the Independent Spirit Award-winning film "Chuck and Buck" and the soon-to-be-released "The Good Girl") and Ric Nicita (head of Creative Artists Agency).
"I would say that roughly three-quarters of the people who have taken Jeanine's classes are working successfully in the business," said Mr. Arteta, class of '89.
"That's really astounding," he said. "We're all good friends and we all help each other, and we have to give her the credit for instilling a confidence in us that has made us less competitive." 
Her students stay closely in touch with Mrs. Basinger long after they leave Wesleyan, and continue to actively seek her input on projects. "To this day, I haven't shot a foot of film without asking her opinion," Mr. Arteta said. 
In the 1980's, Mrs. Basinger conceived the idea of developing a cinema archive to complement the film program. She sought a distinctive space to house three significant film and television collections already acquired by Wesleyan: those of Robert Saudek, executive producer of the groundbreaking 1952-61 TV series "Omnibus," and the directors Elia Kazan and Frank Capra, a close friend of Mrs. Basinger. 
Ultimately, the archive's repository became a three-story, gray Victorian house near the university's Center for the Arts. It officially opened as the Wesleyan Cinema Archives in May 1986. 
Over the next decade, the archive added the assorted collections of John Waters, John Sayles, Jonathan Demme, Martin Scorsese, Clint Eastwood and Ingrid Bergman. Bergman's daughter, Isabella Rossellini, looked into several archives following the actress's death in 1982, but was ultimately won over by the intimacy of Wesleyan's operation. 
"It seemed better organized than any other I'd seen," she said. "The building is like a Swedish house, simple, practical and direct, as my mother would have liked. And it's warm in spirit, not a mausoleum."
These days, the operation remains small-scale, and the archive's holdings are open by appointment to scholars and researchers only, despite offering a number of objects that are catnip to nonacademic film buffs. (For example, Ingrid Bergman's childhood diaries, letters exchanged by Capra and Alfred Hitchcock and costumes from the 1988 John Waters film "Hairspray.")
Clint Eastwood, who gave his collection of cinema material to the archive, said: "It could not be in better hands than those of Jeanine Basinger. I've known her for years and have the utmost respect for her skills as an author and curator and getting me back East as often as she wishes."
The new Center for Film Studies will have a community gallery space for special archive collections. Due to open in 2003, it will also house central offices for film faculty (currently scattered around campus), a state-of-the-art screening room, enhanced film production facilities, more space for archive storage and a winter garden, or glassed-in lounge, where students can congregate. 
"The film program has never really had any place of its own, with its own identity," Mrs. Basinger said. "Having this is going to be something wonderful."

Some Educated Guesses For Tonight's Awards
Jeanine Basinger, chairwoman of the film studies program at Wesleyan University, lists her best bets for some of tonight's Academy Awards.

BEST PICTURE -- "A Beautiful Mind"
BEST ACTOR -- Russell Crowe, "A Beautiful Mind"
BEST ACTRESS -- Halle Berry, "Monster's Ball"
BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR -- Ian McKellen, "Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring"
BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS -- Jennifer Connelly, "A Beautiful Mind"
BEST DIRECTOR -- Ron Howard, "A Beautiful Mind"
BEST SCREENPLAY (ADAPTATION) -- Akiva Goldsman, "A Beautiful Mind"
BEST SCREENPLAY (ORIGINAL) -- Julian Fellowes, "Gosford Park"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeanine Basinger, chairwoman of the Wesleyan University film studies program, stands near some memorabilia in the Wesleyan Cinema Archives. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); FILM (91%); FILM SCHOOLS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM HISTORY (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HISTORY (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (73%); CHILDREN (68%); WRITERS (66%) MOTION PICTURES; ACADEMY AWARDS (OSCARS); MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: RON HOWARD (90%) BASINGER, JEANINE; HOWARD, RON; GRANDJEAN, PATRICIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

TITLE: BEAUTIFUL MIND, A (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



647 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: How Quickly a City Can Grow 

BYLINE:  By Witold Rybczynski; Witold Rybczynski is a professor of urbanism at the University of Pennsylvania. His latest book is "The Look of Architecture."

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
A plan is needed for the World Trade Center site but not a big plan. There are times for building Central Park, and there are times for remedial gardening. Lower Manhattan should not be remade according to some new grand vision. A framework needs to be put in place and some principles agreed on, and city life will take its course. 
 "There's no rush" is a phrase often heard in discussions of the site. Actually, there is a rush, because there is a reason why most cities struck by disaster -- natural or man-made -- generally end up rebuilding more or less what was there before. The reason is not a lack of imagination or will. Rather, while the planners and architects are thoughtfully discussing the options, decisions are being made on the ground. There's infrastructure to be repaired, fire hydrants to be reconnected, materials to be transported, neighborhoods to be knitted back together. In the absence of a new plan, the old street pattern emerges by default. 
 And soon it's too late: the blank slate is no longer blank.
Yes, the World Trade Center site offers a rare opportunity, as many have pointed out, but the window of opportunity will not stay open long. There is no immediate pressure to build a lot of office space, since it's as yet unclear how strong the demand will be and how the current economic upswing will affect New York.
But other things cannot wait. Subway tunnels will be rebuilt, stations will be reopened. Damaged infrastructure will be repaired. The destroyed electrical substation will have to be put back into operation.
But doesn't planning take time? Not as much as many people believe. Urban design is not rocket science. People have been building cities for thousands of years, and while technologies have evolved and changed, the principles of good city building are remarkably durable. We got it right a long time ago, which is why an old city, like London, Rome or Istanbul, often remains a delight.
There appears to be agreement among most architects and planners about what should be done on the World Trade Center site. To begin with, New York should not simply replace the destroyed towers with new ones, even if they are lower. The 16-acre site is a so-called superblock, the result of a misbegotten theory of 1960's city planning that replacing streets and sidewalks with windswept plazas was a sign of progress. We have since learned -- rather, relearned -- that urban life thrives on streets and sidewalks.
So we should put them back. Not that we need to recreate the pre-trade-center street grid in its entirety, but a north-south street would be useful, and so would at least one crosstown road. Fulton Street, for example, could be extended to Battery Park City. There is also an opportunity here to unravel some of the knotted transit issues that bedevil this part of Manhattan.
Turning one big block into four smaller blocks also raises the possibility of incorporating mixed uses on the site. Again, past experience has taught that neighborhoods composed of large chunks of single-use real estate are dull and unattractive and empty at too many times of day. Lower Manhattan, before Sept. 11, was slowly being transformed into a place where people live as well as work, and any new development on the World Trade Center site should encourage this trend.
So a plan then, but a simple one and soon.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TERRORISM (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); HIJACKING (69%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

PERSON: RYBCZYNSKI, WITOLD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



648 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Many start-ups have survived but will need infusions of venture capital.

BYLINE:  By Amy Cortese 

 BODY:
JUST when you thought the dot-com boom and bust had been safely put behind us, new studies suggest that more carnage lies ahead. 
 Separate studies, by the market research firm VentureOne and the consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, portray an industry still working through the excesses of the late 20th century. Sure, valuations have come down to earth, innovative ideas are percolating again and venture investment is picking up, but the cycle has a few last turns left before it is spent. 
 There is some encouraging news: a surprising number of start-ups survived the punishing market conditions of the last year. However, many of them will need fresh infusions of capital soon, testing the resolve of their skittish venture investors. 
The VentureOne study provides perhaps the best snapshot to date of the investment frenzy inspired by the dot-coms. The research firm identified 7,235 companies at the beginning of 2001 that had previously raised some venture capital. Most were high-technology related and had raised only their seed or first rounds of financing.
Of the 7,235, roughly 11 percent have gone out of business. A small portion (6 percent) were either acquired or went public, but the great majority, 83 percent, are still alive, albeit with varying levels of vigor. Twenty-eight percent even managed to obtain financing in the difficult market conditions of 2001.
The PricewaterhouseCoopers study, which looked at a smaller sample of companies, also concluded that more start-ups than had been expected made it through the bust, thanks to a return to more conservative business basics.
Behind the rosy numbers, though, lies a harsh reality. A large portion of the start-ups tracked by VentureOne -- about 3,400 companies -- last raised money before conditions severely deteriorated in early 2001, suggesting that they will be back in the market for financing soon. Yet venture capital firms continue to be extremely picky when it comes to doling out the piles of cash they are sitting on: at last count, at least $40 billion or $50 billion in United States venture capital has been raised but not yet invested.
What's more, a high portion of the start-ups are considered early stage (read risky) and are in areas like consumer and business services that are not attracting much investment these days. "It's pretty clear that all of those 3,400 companies won't get financed," said Dave Witherow, the chief executive of VentureOne, based in San Francisco. 
Venture investments have been sliding steadily, to 610 deals worth $6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2001, where they seem to have stabilized, from 1,711 worth $27 billion in the first quarter of 2000. At the same time, the interval between financings has stretched.
As the whims of the market change, so do a start-up's chances of being financed. Categories that were hot in 2000 -- e-tailing, online information and technology consulting, for example -- are about as enticing to venture capitalists today as WorldCom bonds are. In contrast, biotechnology -- considered dead just a few years ago -- is one of the hottest areas, along with semiconductors, communications and software.
Taking a slightly different tack, the PricewaterhouseCoopers study interviewed 350 venture-based start-ups in the United States and abroad, trying to analyze the strategies and characteristics common to successful start-ups.
Not surprisingly, the study found differences in the approaches taken by start-ups before the Internet bubble and during the bubble, which the study dated as beginning in the fourth quarter of 1999 and extending through the second quarter of 2000. During that frenetic period, companies attracted strong management teams when they were little more than ideas but typically had little to show in the way of customers or solid business models by the time they received their first round of venture financing. They were able to raise large amounts of money as investors bestowed lofty valuations on their budding companies. Those valuations were typically lowered in subsequent financing.
In contrast, companies that were started before the bubble developed more slowly but had more customers by the initial round of financing and increased steadily in value.
One factor that distinguished successful start-ups from the less successful ones was a narrow and manageable definition of the markets they were going after. "Companies that said they were going to conquer the world were likely to fail for lack of focus," said Michael Katz, managing director and chief operating officer at PricewaterhouseCoopers's global technology center in Menlo Park, Calif.
Venture capitalists have taken much of the blame for fueling the Internet bubble by backing so many ill-conceived ideas at inflated prices and then, when the market for initial public stock offerings slammed shut, ruthlessly pulling the plug on their hopeful entrepreneurs. But the PricewaterhouseCoopers study found that venture investors played an instrumental role in developing successful companies and brought valuable assistance to start-ups beyond financing. The start-ups interviewed said that venture investors were particularly helpful in recruiting, developing strategy and making introductions to potential partners and customers.
And there's the rub. The best venture capitalists have always provided a lot of hands-on guidance to their fledgling charges, and that has been a main source of their appeal. But during the bubble, so much money was thrown at so many companies -- investments in 1999 and 2000 accounted for 70 percent of all venture capital invested in the last two decades -- that even after winnowing their portfolios over the last year, many general partners are stretched thin across too many companies. The slack is picked up by less experienced junior partners, or not at all. With dim hopes of a quick initial public offering or acquisition these days, venture capitalists are facing the prospect of supporting their portfolio companies through several rounds of financing.
That math concerns many in the industry. Arthur J. Marks, a longtime venture capitalist, put together a study of his own, concluding that the flood of money into the venture business the last few years had created an imbalance of capital and the capacity of venture capitalists to manage it. The study noted that the amount of money invested by each experienced general partner had increased more than tenfold the last 10 years. "A lot of firms are trying to come to grips with this," said Mr. Marks, who was a general partner for 18 years at New Enterprise Associates before starting Valhalla Partners, his own venture firm, in Tysons Corner, Va., earlier this year.
One response has been to shrink the size of megafunds. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the prominent Silicon Valley venture firm, told its limited partner investors it probably would not need all of the capital they had committed for a $650 million fund.
Venture capitalists may be cheered by other findings in the Pricewaterhouse study. Over all, the companies surveyed seemed satisfied with their venture investors, with 84 percent saying they would use them again. 
That is, if they ever get the chance.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Venture Financing Harder to Obtain"Number of venture capital financing deals completed, by quarter. Graph tracks deals through 2000 and 2001.(Source: VentureOne)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); EQUITY FINANCING (76%); FINANCING ROUNDS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: VENTUREONE CORP; PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: CORTESE, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



649 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Coming soon: advance selling of blocks of movie theater screens for pre-show advertising.

BYLINE:  By Bernard Stamler 

 BODY:
THEY run the gamut from snack promotions on slides to full-blown filmed extravaganzas. Now appearing on roughly two-thirds of America's 34,000 odd screens, they are movie theater ads and, like television commercials before them, they are well on their way to becoming a staple of American life.
 Now, taking a page from the television industry, Screenvision, a New York-based concern that acts as a broker for companies controlling about 12,000 movie screens nationwide, including those of the Loews Cineplex and Carmike Cinemas chains, has decided to try to sell its inventory of screens on a competitive, advance-purchase basis. And it is calling its efforts in this so-called upfront market the first in motion picture advertising. 
 It began with a number of recent presentations for advertisers in movie theaters nationwide, with Todd Siegel, senior vice president for sales and marketing for Screenvision, serving as host.
In a way, the movie industry's move into the upfront market was probably inevitable. People who sell movie advertising even say that it already surpasses its small-screen cousin in terms of viewer impact. They cite many reasons, including the physical size of cinema screens, the fragmentation of the television audience, movie audience demographics that skew young and affluent, the availability of complementary promotions on things like popcorn bags and lobby displays and, most important, the fact that the audience is captive and undistracted and unable to zap commercials the way people can with television.
All of that may be true. Still, in terms of media spending, movie advertising captures just a fraction of the television market, with revenue last year of about $250 million, Mr. Siegel said. That compares with roughly $45 billion in ad spending on television last year, according to CMR, an ad tracking firm that is a division of Taylor Nelson Sofres.
Jointly owned by Britain's Carlton Communications and the Technicolor division of Thomson Multimedia of France, Screenvision is one of three major players in movie advertising in the United States. The others are National Cinema Network, which represents some 10,000 screens, and Regal Entertainment, which owns nearly 6,000 screens, including those of the Regal, United Artists and Edwards chains.
In its version of upfront market, Screenvision is offering "pre-buys" on its roster of screens to those willing to bid nationally for four- or five-week blocks over the next several months. Buyers have the option of commercials of various lengths, all of which are presented within a three-minute block that is shown after the house lights go down and before coming attractions are presented. Exclusives are being offered in various product categories, with rates and guarantees based on attendance numbers only, without specific links to the particular films that may be playing.
That is because historical patterns already exist to predict how many people will be in movie theaters during every season, Mr. Siegel said, including the summer and end-of-year holidays, when attendance peaks. Studios know how to fill the theaters by producing the right kinds of films at specific times of year, he said, and have reliable track records.
"Regardless of the actual films," Mr. Siegel said, "we know in July, for example, that our network will deliver 85 million tickets." 
Mr. Siegel said Screenvision's rate card -- the "official" price of ads during the upfront period -- was lower than it would be for piecemeal or regional buys, reflecting a cost per thousand viewers of about $35 during the peak summer months. But rate cards are commonly discounted, and Screenvision's are no exception.
"Do we sell at 10 or 20 percent off? Yes," he said. "But not at 30 to 40 percent." That would put Screenvision's cost per thousand viewers in the high $20's to $30 range, which compares favorably with television. According to a report last year by Media Edge, a media services agency that is part of the Young & Rubicam unit of the WPP Group that is now known as Mediaedge:CIA, television's "peak time" cost per thousand viewers for young adults was more than $94 during the 2000-2001 season. 
Will the advance bidding work? It's too early to know, Mr. Siegel said, adding that a number of advertisers had already expressed interest but had yet to commit. It would appear that the other chains are not engaging in competitive bidding of their own, at least not yet.
Still, the president of National Cinema Network, Chuck Battey, said he was taking a wait-and-see approach, watching Screenvision's efforts with interest.
"I sincerely hope they succeed in enlarging the market for cinema advertising," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); FILM (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); LOBBYING (70%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (69%) MOTION PICTURES; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: CINEPLEX INC (57%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (53%); NATIONAL CINEMEDIA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREENVISION CINEMA NETWORK 

TICKER: CGX (TSX) (57%); NCMI (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (57%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (52%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (52%)

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



650 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
J. Crew reaches a milestone as its sales over the Web exceed sales from its catalog.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
WHEN J. Crew announced its results for February recently, the company highlighted its growing Internet sales as the one bright spot in an otherwise forgettable month. Surprisingly, what it did not say was that it had crossed a threshold that few apparel and general merchandise catalog businesses have crossed: for the first time, J. Crew's Web sales eclipsed its catalog sales. 
 J. Crew began life as a catalog retailer but now gets the bulk of its sales from a growing chain of stores -- $26 million in February. But the $13.1 million worth of goods the company sold online surpassed catalog sales of $10.7 million. 
 The milestone points to the continuing online progress of the biggest catalog marketers, which started their e-commerce efforts with obvious advantages over traditional retailers and Internet start-ups -- expertise in selling to customers remotely -- and which have continued to refine their online selling approach over the last three years. 
Catalog companies previously "did the Web with training wheels," said Kate Delhagen, a retail analyst with Forrester Research, a technology consulting company. "Now they are riding the bike -- they're optimizing." Those companies have also managed to attract new customers through the Web, she said, not simply shift the catalog shoppers over to a new medium with unproven long-term economics.
"There has been some cannibalization, but I'd estimate that between 20 and 40 percent of the catalog companies' sales come from new customers," Ms. Delhagen said. "So the bottom line is, they are acquiring lots and lots of new people through the Web."
But even if the cannibalization exists, that is not necessarily cause for alarm, analysts and executives said. Online shoppers cost less to serve than catalog shoppers, they said. And when customers buy from the same company through different means, they tend to spend more than if they buy exclusively through the company's catalog, store or Web site, industry executives said. 
Certainly, the catalog companies are getting their customers to spend more money online now than in years past. Take J. Crew, which is based in New York, and is 60 percent owned by the Texas Pacific Group. Without citing specific figures, David Towers, the company's vice president for e-commerce, said the average J. Crew order size was bigger on the Web than through the catalog, "mostly because we're able to do things online that we can't do with the catalog."
The best example, Mr. Towers said, involves so-called up-selling -- a technique epitomized in the offline world by the phrase "Do you want fries with that?" Since a site redesign in October, J. Crew has put more emphasis on this selling technique, showing photos of a matching T-shirt or belt, maybe, when a customer places a pair of jeans into her shopping cart. 
Notably, the company has been able to slightly reduce its reliance on printed catalogs as Web sales have increased. Mr. Towers said the company had reduced its catalog mailings in the last 18 months -- although by less than 10 percent. J. Crew does not disclose how many millions of catalogs it mails each year, but given the industry standard of about $1 per catalog to prepare and ship, even a small percentage dip in mailings could produce substantial savings. 
The topic of reduced catalog mailings is a sensitive one for direct marketers. Lands' End made headlines in 2000 after it cut its holiday 1999 catalog mailing by 9 percent, in hopes that customers would simply go to the Web site to view goods and place orders. The result -- 17 percent fewer sales for the company -- seemed to teach the entire direct marketing industry that the Web was a solid adjunct to a catalog business, not a replacement for it. 
And yet, Land's End and other companies with strong catalog and online businesses, like Recreational Equipment International, are still considering changes in their mailing practices, now that so many of their customers shop online. (About $327 million, or 27 percent of 2001 revenues at Lands' End, came from the online division.) 
Bill Bass, vice president for e-commerce and international sales at Lands' End, said the company was testing various approaches -- like mailing smaller catalogs to customers who also shop on the Web. With postal rates rising and the price of paper unsteady, Mr. Bass said, "print is becoming a more expensive way to interact with people."
The Web, meanwhile, is becoming a less expensive way to interact with people. The sizable technology investments that Lands' End and other catalog retailers made several years ago when they began using transactional Web sites "are fixed costs," Mr. Bass said. He added that the online division's profit margins surpassed the catalog division three years ago, "and we're becoming more efficient every year." 
Such efficiency is likely to increase, as catalog companies continue to learn more about the nuances of selling online, said Evan Guillemin, chief operating officer at Delia's, which started as a catalog retailer of apparel and accessories to teenage girls and now operates a Web site and stores, as well. In the past, he said, catalog companies could never change the mix or prices of merchandise once a catalog shipped, "so that's a new flexibility that catalogers have had to learn." 
Two years ago, Mr. Guillemin said, the company would mail its catalogs, then "put the inventory online and leave it there until we mailed the next one." Now, as soon as the company mails its catalogs, "we start reacting," Mr. Guillemin said, adding: "We shift inventory that's selling well to the front of the site. We'll take inventory that's not selling well and adjust the prices." 
The catalog operation also benefits from the online division, Mr. Guillemin said. The Web team can test items that may or may not work in the catalog, rather than placing a large inventory bet on certain catalog items without much empirical data on how they will sell. The company was able to feature more trendy shoes in its January catalog, for instance, thanks to testing the company conducted online over the holidays. 
The sales data gleaned by the catalog companies is coming in handy offline, too. In a year of retrenchment for many traditional retailers, stores bearing the names of Delia's, J. Crew, and other direct marketers are appearing in more places. Although some companies, like Recreational Equipment, are relying more on demographic information to decide where to place stores, others are poring over Internet and catalog sales data to help see where their best offline customers might be. 
Mr. Towers of J. Crew said that along with factors like population density and demographics, J. Crew's direct marketing data has led to recent openings in St. Paul, Durham, N.C., and Yale University. 
Other direct marketers will not be far behind, said Ms. Delhagen, at Forrester. "That light bulb is just starting to go on with the early leaders," she said. "If you've got a cluster of people out there in a certain ZIP code, and you know that when you open a store they go from being $100 per year customers to $300 per year customers, why wait?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wendy Chappelle packs an order of J. Crew clothing in the company's assembly department in Lynchburg, Va. The company is drawing new customers through its Web site. (Dean Hoffmeyer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAIL ORDER RETAILING (92%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (88%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); STARTUPS (54%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CATALOGUES 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); TPG CAPITAL LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: J CREW GROUP 

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (52%) SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES; 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



651 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Broadcasters' Woes Spill Into the Worldof Soccer 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 24 

 BODY:
When the World Cup soccer championships begin in May, the primary television broadcaster will be Premiere, the pay-television company owned by the Kirch Group.
 But while the matches will be played in South Korea and Japan, most of Premiere's play-by-play commentators will be thousands of miles away. All but two of the commentators will report by watching monitors in a studio outside Munich. 
 "Nobody has ever tried to broadcast the World Cup like this before," said Rainer Franzke, editor of Kicker, a German soccer magazine. 
Then again, few broadcasters have been in as much trouble as Kirch.
Kirch, a media conglomerate based in Munich, has been in a slow-motion spiral toward financial collapse. It lost nearly $900 million last year on Premiere and is groaning under at least $6 billion in debt and several billion dollars in other obligations to other media companies.
Kirch has been negotiating feverishly for relief from Germany's biggest banks and investors, and talks continued this weekend in Munich. According to German media reports, many banks want the founder, Leo Kirch, to surrender majority control. The company is trying to sell its controlling stake in Formula One racing, which it acquired less than two years ago for more than $1 billion. It is selling off foreign broadcast rights to World Cup games -- including those for the United States, where the Major League Soccer organization bought the rights from Kirch and will show the games on ESPN and ABC.
Here in Germany, the Kirch crisis threatens to upset the very structure of professional soccer. Kirch owns the television rights to German professional soccer, and the licensing fees it pays account for about one-quarter of the teams' $1 billion in combined revenue. Weaker teams, which get less money from other sources, are so dependent on television money that many would go bankrupt if Kirch were to collapse.
Kirch is not the only media company in Europe affected by having paid extravagantly for broadcast rights to sporting events. ITV Digital, the British pay-television venture owned by Granada and Carlton Communications, is threatening to shut down if Britain's second-tier soccer league refuses to accept deep cuts in its current contract.
Kirch executives are already demanding to renegotiate their existing $1.5 billion contract, which expires in 2004, with the German soccer league. Team owners are resisting, but they are increasingly worried that Kirch might actually go bankrupt.
No matter what happens, soccer executives expect to get far less money from the next contract.
"Anyone who thinks that things will continue like this after 2004 is either more optimistic than I am or knows more than I do," said Christian Schickhardt, a lawyer who represents players and teams in financial dealings.
The pattern is similar in Britain and Germany. Huge television deals prompted soccer teams to pay ever higher salaries, leaving many teams in deeper financial trouble. As the television broadcasters stumble, scores of small teams are in danger of becoming insolvent.
The expansion of satellite and cable television has turned a handful of European teams into pan-European marketing juggernauts: Manchester United, Real Madrid, A.C. Milan and Bayern Munich. Corporate advertisers have concentrated more of their spending on the big teams and increasingly ignore smaller ones.
In Germany, Borussia Dortmund is a publicly traded company with revenue last year of $93 million. Only about 18 percent of that came from television rights; most was from advertising and sales of tickets and merchandise.
By contrast, the Hansa Rostock team in eastern Germany had revenue of less than $25 million. About half came from television license fees, which are negotiated by the German national soccer league.
"Television money is extremely important to us and to all of the smaller clubs," said Dirk Grabow, Hansa Rostock's director of finance. 
Premiere has already served notice that it wants to renegotiate the current deal. "We must talk soon with the league in order to find a sensible solution for both sides," Georg Kofler, Premiere's chief executive, said on Thursday.
Some league executives have floated the idea of starting their own television channel. But many team owners consider that unrealistic. 
Executives of the big teams say they are confident that Kirch will fulfill its existing contract and that professional soccer will still thrive.
"Kirch has been a very good partner," said Michael Meier, president of Borussia Dortmund. But even optimists agree that nobody will pay as much for television rights when the next contracts expire, and that means teams are already scaling back star players' salaries.
Kirch has invested more than $4 billion in Premiere, yet the pay-television service has yet to attract more than 2.4 million subscribers and is said to be losing about $2 million a day. BSkyB, the satellite broadcaster in which the News Corporation is the largest shareholder, which holds a 22 percent stake in Premiere and has an option to sell that stake back for $1.5 billion, has said it would write off its investment and try to get back as much as it can.
Mr. Kirch was convinced that holding exclusive rights to German soccer and the World Cup would give Premiere the edge it needed. But he ran afoul of politicians, furious that people might have to pay to watch soccer on television. Under pressure, the Kirch Group agreed to let free over-the-air broadcasters carry games several hours after their being shown on Premiere. Kirch also agreed to let them broadcast 24 of the 64 games being played in the World Cup championship.
That severely diluted the value of Premiere to sports fans. Making matters worse, most German homes receive nearly 30 channels of television by cable at low or no cost.
Industry experts say at least half a dozen smaller German teams would go bankrupt if Premiere suddenly stopped paying. But it is clear that neither Kirch nor a rival will pay current rates for much longer.
"Football has been living for years on subsidies and infusions," Mr. Franzke wrote in a recent issue of Kicker magazine. "Leo Kirch financed TV rights with debt, and he cannot refinance that debt with the football product."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Premiere TV crew covers a soccer match in Dortmund. To hold down costs, Premiere will only send two announcers to Asia for the World Cup. The others will report games from studio monitors in Germany. (Foto Premiere/FIRO); Leo Kirch, head of the Kirch Group, which owns Premiere. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); SOCCER (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); FORMULA ONE RACING (51%) SOCCER; FINANCES; WORLD CUP (SOCCER); TELEVISION; PAY TELEVISION 

ORGANIZATION: KIRCH GROUP; PREMIERE (GERMAN TV CHANNEL) 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (77%) GERMANY (99%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



652 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1825 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Watches Ovitz Star In Tale ofThwarted Ambition 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD WEINRAUB and ANITA M. BUSCH 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 24 

 BODY:
Four years ago, Michael S. Ovitz promised to reshape the entertainment business by creating a management company that would leverage movie, music and sports stars into film, television and Internet projects.
 Mr. Ovitz, who had been one of Hollywood's highest fliers, was struggling to restore his power and prestige after Michael D. Eisner, the chairman of the Walt Disney Company, ousted him as president in January 1997, after a turbulent 14 months in the job. Within Disney, Mr. Ovitz's management style had created an aura of intimidation that clashed with the company's culture and made it difficult for him to define a role as Mr. Eisner's No. 2. 
 Now Mr. Ovitz's own company, Artists Management Group -- which he underwrote with some of his $100 million severance package from Disney -- is in financial turmoil. Over the weekend, Vivendi Universal, the major investor in the film unit, withdrew from their joint venture, leaving Mr. Ovitz in the unenviable position of having to seek new money in an economy still trying to recover from the recession. 
Once referred to as the most powerful man in Hollywood by the reporters and editors he courted so assiduously, Mr. Ovitz, at 55, remains a subject of fascination in this town, even as he struggles in his current job. An internal audit of the film unit that Vivendi conducted before ending the partnership has cast a shadow, and Mr. Ovitz's company faces a threat of legal action by at least a half-dozen employees who have been dismissed and say they are owed back pay. 
Mr. Ovitz was once the city's top talent agent, exerting leverage over studios and networks in the 1980's and early 90's as chairman of the Creative Artists Agency, but he has had trouble realizing his grander ambition: to be not just a handler of stars, but an entertainment mogul in his own right.
One word has been repeatedly used in recent days by numerous entertainment industry executives to describe Mr. Ovitz's current travails. The word is "Shakespearean."
In pursuing his ambitions, Mr. Ovitz, who declined to be interviewed for this article, has left behind a trail of enemies, a surprising number of them former friends and colleagues. That includes the leaders at his former firm, Creative Artists Agency, who were incensed that as soon as Mr. Ovitz set up his new firm four years ago, he sought to lure away many of Creative Artists' actors and directors. Creative Artists now refuses to serve as talent agents for anyone who seeks the managerial help of Mr. Ovitz's company. The agents also felt betrayed when Mr. Ovitz promised them that he had absolutely no plans to leave the agency -- three days before he announced his departure for Disney.
"We've gotten over the anger," one of the top partners at Creative Artists said on Friday. "We were hurt by him. Now we just sort of stare at him and feel sad. He's become what none of us want to be."
Similarly, Mr. Ovitz, at a retreat for the entire staff of Artists Management Group last summer, announced that he had no plans to disband the television unit, even though he and top executives had already talked about shutting down the unit. Weeks later, the television unit, Artists Television Group, was dead.
In an industry in which relationships are everything, Mr. Ovitz is struggling under the handicap of being at odds with many powerful people. Mr. Eisner, at Disney, is one. Others include David Geffen and Jeffrey Katzenberg, two DreamWorks SKG owners who have long had hostile relations with Mr. Ovitz. And Mr. Ovitz is estranged from Ron Meyer, one of his former partners at Creative Artists, who is now president and chief operating officer of Universal Studios -- a unit of Vivendi Universal, which has just severed its film partnership with Mr. Ovitz. Another longtime Ovitz loyalist, Barry Hirsch, who was his attorney, is now in a dispute with Mr. Ovitz over money.
One top manager who left the company last year said he had found it a hindrance to represent clients while working for a leader who was such a lightning rod all over Hollywood.
It is true that Mr. Ovitz has had success with some parts of the Artists Management Group. He is widely acknowledged as one of the entertainment industry's best negotiators on behalf of clients. 
The firm's management division, which helps line up projects for the people it represents, has lucrative clients, like the directors Martin Scorsese, Sydney Pollack and Richard Donner, as well as performers like Robin Williams. Yet many of the firm's younger stars, including Cameron Diaz and Leonardo DiCaprio, have been brought into the company by Mr. Ovitz's partners, Rick Yorn and his sister-in-law, Julie Silverman-Yorn, whose contracts expire next year. Their departure would be devastating for Mr. Ovitz's company.
The other divisions of Mr. Ovitz's company have fared less well. The television unit, designed to serve as a major money-maker for Mr. Ovitz, lost as much as $60 million, even though it had deals with top writer-producers like Darren Starr, Barry Levinson and Tom Fontana. Mr. Ovitz gambled on finding one big hit early, essentially to pay the bills. But at least a half-dozen costly bets did not pay off.
Last August, the television production unit was dismantled -- a serious setback for Mr. Ovitz, who was unable to use his persuasive powers to find an investor. Virtually every film studio and network turned him down, as did AT&T, Yahoo, Hughes Electronics and Enron.
The music and sports units of Artists Management group, meanwhile, have seen an exodus of executives and clients. The tennis players Pete Sampras and Pam Shriver, and the Los Angeles Lakers basketball star Rick Fox, for example, have moved with their manager, Jill Smoller, to the William Morris Agency. 
And last October, Alan Berger, a prominent manager of writers and of television newscasters, including Katie Couric and Connie Chung, quit Artists Management Group to join the Creative Artists Agency. Two months later, Ms. Couric signed a new contract with NBC for a salary of $15 million to $16 million year -- and potentially millions of dollars in agent's fees for Mr. Berger. 
Agents and managers play different roles for clients, and many stars retain both. But the lines between them are often fuzzy. Agents are allowed to take only 10 percent of a client's earnings, and their job is to solicit employment and negotiate deals. Managers, on the other hand, can earn 15 percent or more of a client's fees, and their tasks are to find projects and devote as much attention as possible to the individual career needs of their stars. They are also allowed to produce films and television shows with their stars and others, but agents are legally barred from doing that.
When Mr. Ovitz left Creative Artists to join Disney in October 1995 -- after turning down the top job at Universal because he deemed the compensation package insufficient -- he made it evident to his staff that he was tired of working as an agent. A reporter wrote at the time that as agents got older, they grew impatient when temperamental actors like Sylvester Stallone or Sean Connery called them at 3 a.m. to voice complaints. Mr. Ovitz phoned the reporter to say it was absolutely true.
Even Mr. Ovitz's critics give him credit for daring to start a management company and putting up a substantial share of his own money. But he might have miscalculated how long it would take to succeed. He began with 80 employees and soon had more than 200. That was far more than the number employed by Brillstein-Grey, which has been one of the most successful and enduring management companies, representing clients like Brad Pitt and Adam Sandler and producing successful television shows like "The Sopranos." 
Since the closing of Artists Management Group's television unit and the departure of many executives, Mr. Ovitz's firm now has fewer than 200 employees.
In any case, the rupturing of the Vivendi Universal relationship has put a new strain on the firm. After Vivendi made a deal in December to acquire the film and television units of Barry Diller's USA Networks and put Mr. Diller in charge of the Universal operations, it was understood that Vivendi would consolidate its film companies. The film venture with Artists Management Group was set up in July 1999 by Canal Plus, a French entertainment company that is part of the Vivendi empire.
Last week, Vivendi found its opportunity to end the arrangement with Artists Management Group, 16 months before the contract's expiration, by raising hard questions that arose from a recent routine audit of the Ovitz film venture.
Executives at Mr. Ovitz's company say that the audit was a low-level one, focusing on marginal issues like Christmas gifts, money spent on sweatshirts at a company retreat and the amount of staff time devoted to certain film projects.
But those at Vivendi Universal involved in the audit called it far more serious, involving more than $2 million and focusing on the possible misuse of money meant for film development and overhead. Such costs were paid by a joint venture with Canal Plus's production arm, StudioCanal, which Vivendi Universal is expected to close. 
Artists Management Group has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. And officials at Mr. Ovitz's company said that an executive at StudioCanal had disputed the amount in a letter to Vivendi Universal. 
As part of the settlement agreement ending the relationship, Mr. Ovitz's company and Vivendi Universal issued a statement over the weekend saying that "statements in the press regarding improprieties were uncorroborated by any of the parties." People close to the discussions say that sentence was included at the insistence of the Artists Management Group and became the major bone of contention in the settlement of the deal.
Vivendi Universal, however, was able to use the audit as a lever to end the relationship early. A settlement was reached because neither side wanted a court battle. "There is no pending litigation," the joint statement said.
Whatever the final impact of the audit, Mr. Ovitz is now under more financial pressure as he pursues his dream of being something more than a talent agent. By some accounts, it is an increasingly lonely pursuit.
A top Hollywood agent who once worked with Mr. Ovitz recalled seeing him standing alone one night about two weeks ago outside the dressing room of the comedian Robin Williams at the Universal Amphitheater in Universal City. Mr. Williams -- who has been an Ovitz client at Artists Management Group for about three years -- had completed a sold-out performance. As in his old days as an agent, Mr. Ovitz was essentially hanging around to pay fealty to a star client.
After taking in this scene, the agent went to his car, took out his cellphone and called another former Ovitz colleague.
"It was really a horrific sight -- Ovitz waiting for Robin," the agent recalled. "I got scared. I said, 'We've got to pack it in.' I don't want to do that at 55."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A company begun by Michael S. Ovitz recently lost Vivendi Universal as a partner in a joint film venture. (Reuters)(pg. C1); Michael S. Ovitz, right, founded the Artists Management Group, a talent management company. He is shown here with the actor Edward Burns. (Associated Press)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TALENT AGENTS (89%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (76%); ATHLETES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LITIGATION (69%); BACK PAY (64%); AUDITS (50%) MOTION PICTURES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LABOR 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (85%); VIVENDI (83%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ARTISTS MANAGEMENT GROUP; VIVENDI UNIVERSAL SA 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (85%); VIV (PAR) (83%); VIV (BIT) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (66%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; BUSCH, ANITA M; OVITZ, MICHAEL S 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



653 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: WRITERS ON WRITING; 
A Woman Pushed Into Heroism in the Times That Tried Men's Souls

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGRATH 

 BODY:
Some years ago, having written several novels in succession about insanity and obsessive sexual love, I decided that the next would be a story about the American Revolution. Instead of wild delusions, ungovernable passions, bad decisions and flawed perceptions there would be horses and muskets and sailing ships and thunderstorms. There would be sacrifice, treachery and bloodshed. Tyranny would be overthrown, a nation born. It was a chancy venture, but every author will recognize the impulse to travel down strange roads, if only for one book.
 Why the Revolution? There was of course its sheer romanticism, this band of farmers challenging the greatest army in the world, with the wilderness landscapes of colonial America as a backdrop and the idea of Liberty shimmering at the heart of it all. But there was a more personal motive involved. I had grown up in England, and after various rebellions and failures fled the place, eventually settling in New York, where I became a writer. That was 20 years ago. My feelings for this country are like those of many immigrants: powerful, affectionate, grateful but somehow never easy to articulate without resort to large vague abstractions. 
 Virginia Woolf, contrasting the English and American peoples, wrote that "while we have shadows that stalk behind us, they have a light that dances in front of them. That is what makes them the most interesting people in the world -- they face the future, not the past." It occurred to me that if I turned the other way, and faced America's past -- in particular, her overthrow of British imperial power and the invention of a new form of republican government -- then I might discover in an early, legible form just what it is about this country that inspires such patriotic fervor in its people, including uprooted Europeans like myself.
It is not a project for the faint of heart, the writing of a historical novel. The research alone absorbed years of my life, and there were no shortcuts possible: one has to be able to feel, breathe and even smell the air of the period being portrayed, and when that period is the 18th century those smells can be pretty ripe. This turned out to be a large part of the joy of the thing, however, and during the endless trawling through the history and fiction of the time, I read no prose more pungent -- perhaps with the exception of Smollett's -- than that of Thomas Paine, the best-selling author of the 18th century and also the man who saved the republic with a pamphlet.
Some novels declare their design and intentions to their author only gradually, as characters and themes emerge through the creative process. The writer of such a book will be wise to hold only lightly to his first ideas, so as to abandon them without a pang when seemingly of its own accord the story veers off in a new direction. Other novels require certain firm commitments to be made up front. My novel of the Revolution seemed to be of this second type. It was clear to me it would have to address the themes of, first, history and its claims to truth; then of power, both personal and political; and thirdly of parenting, inasmuch as the relation of a king to his colony was in those days often represented as that of a parent to a child.
Tom Paine was helpful here. He loathed kings with a passion, and none more so than George III, whom he called "a sottish, stupid, stubborn, worthless, brutish man." He described him as a pimp who prostituted his own children. He compared him to Saturn, who ate his own children. He wrote that "even brutes do not devour their young, nor savages make war upon their families." In short, to quote a French revolutionary sentiment from the National Convention of 1792, "kings are in the moral order what monsters are in the physical."
What I required, then, was a monster, who was also a father, to stand for imperial Britain and her king; and a child, grown strong enough to claim her independence, to stand for the colonies. The child defies her monstrous parent and achieves autonomy, and there we have it. But that of course is absurdly simplistic. Plans for novels generally turn out to be inadequate, and my crude schematic equations soon became the faintest part of the design: characters outgrow their function if they have any vitality at all. But as my story came to life, so, oddly, in its growing complexity, did the human dimension come to mirror the political.
The child in question, an English girl called Martha Peake, loves her father dearly, and it is only when he begins to behave badly, having become besotted with cheap gin, that she is forced to distance herself from him. She attempts a reconciliation, but he is too far gone. Nothing will do but that they separate, and in the fall of 1774 she takes ship for Boston. It grieves her bitterly to do this, for she and her father have lived together happily for many years. But he gives her no choice. So did the colonies, more in sadness, at first, than in anger, recognize that they could no longer tolerate the imperial relationship; their father the king insisted on imposing unjust taxes and stifling their ability to trade.
But having decided they must fight, the colonists did so with dogged courage, and also, it became apparent, with a canny eye to the public relations aspect of the conflict. As early as 1770 the use of propaganda had proved effective for the patriot cause. The Boston Massacre -- when British soldiers occupying the town fired into an angry crowd, killing five -- won international sympathy for the people of Massachusetts largely because, with the help of an engraving by Paul Revere, they got their account of the event across the Atlantic first.
Viewed from this perspective -- that is, in terms not merely of how the war was fought but also of how it was perceived -- the significance for the Revolution of Tom Paine's writings comes into sharp focus. He it was who, when the Americans were filled with despair and irresolution in the winter of 1776, rallied them so successfully with his pamphlet "The Crisis" that the revolutionary cause did not collapse but was, rather, reinvigorated. His closing battle cry, as one historian put it, "might almost have startled slain patriots from their new graves under the frozen clods."
The struggle, then, was not merely one of arms, but of meanings -- and it seemed to me vital that this idea be woven into the fabric of the novel. So it was arranged that Martha Peake, an English girl adrift in war-torn Massachusetts, pregnant and unwed to boot, is riven by conflicting loyalties, not only nationalistic but filial and sexual as well. And that as a result of these conflicts she is provoked into an action that will turn her into a heroine, and her story into a legend, despite the fact that she feels none of the elevated sentiments attributed to her when she performs the heroic deed, being driven by quite other emotions.
The cause is served not by truth but rather by the rhetorical inflation of an event whose meaning is fiercely contested. My own first naively romantic image of the Revolution had come to seem similarly distorted -- and unreliable historical narration became a central feature of the novel's design. As for the project helping me understand why I love America, I still find that difficult to articulate properly, although hating kings has a lot to do with it.
But I do know now why I love Tom Paine. He may have been smelly and not always sober, but by the power of his fiery prose he kept the Revolution alive and with it the fledgling republic. I have done what I can for him, even giving him a small cameo late in the novel, where he terrifies a child just by looking at it. I would propose him as the patron saint of writers everywhere, had he not been a godless atheist.

Writers on Writing

This article is part of a series in which writers explore literary themes. Previous contributions can be found at The New York Times on the Web:
nytimes.com/books/columns

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrick McGrath's novel "Martha Peake" is due in paperback in May. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)(pg. E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); HISTORY (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); BESTSELLERS (73%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; WRITING AND WRITERS 

PERSON: MCGRATH, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%)

TITLE: MARTHA PEAKE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



654 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Big Mexican Breadwinner: The Migrant Worker 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 19 

 BODY:
Three construction workers who gathered outside a Western Union office on the west side of this city seemed too tired to drag themselves home, much less help lift their homeland, Mexico, out of poverty.
 But each time they go to the money transfer counter to send cash to their parents and siblings, the workers fortify a multibillion-dollar network that has made Mexico one of the leading recipients of immigrant remittances in the world. 
 Quick electronic transactions turn the workers, who barely make enough money to support themselves in the United States, into breadwinners for their nation.
Millions of monthly money orders, averaging $200 each, generate more than $9.3 billion a year for Mexico, almost half of the $23 billion sent to all of Latin America and the Caribbean. Mexico, a nation of 100 million people, earns almost as much from remittances as India, with a population of one billion. 
Remittances are Mexico's third-largest source of income, after oil exports and tourism. In much of rural Mexico remittances exceed local and state budgets. 
Across Latin America, the flow of remittances to the region's poorest countries tops all international development assistance and is increasing by an average 11 percent a year.
So while world governments and financial leaders gathered at a United Nations conference in Monterrey, Mexico, to ponder what rich countries could do to help poor ones, Mexican workers like Ricardo Morales were already leading by example.
The brawny 26-year-old roofer is from the central Mexican state of Zacatecas, which has one of the highest migration rates. He said that after four years of work in Chicago he has turned his parents' tin shack near the village of Susticacan into a three-bedroom concrete house.
He has a savings account of some $3,000 back home that he intends to use to help a younger brother go to college. He recently bought an acre of land, where he will build a small home for himself.
Meanwhile he lives with four other men in a one-bedroom apartment not far off West 26th Street, a bustling commercial strip of taco stands, dollar stores and money-sending offices that, according to the Chicago comptroller's office, is close behind upscale Michigan Avenue in the sales taxes it raises for the city.
Mr. Morales says he earns about $500 a week and sends about $400 home each month. "Our thinking," he said, "is that we will make sacrifices now so that our families can live better and so that one day we will live better back home."
Mexico has begun to take heed of how these simple dreams fuel real progress. Abandoning the attitudes of past governments who viewed immigrants as an embarrassment, Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, has hailed them as "national heroes." 
In speeches at home and abroad, he has boasted that the economic output of some 23 million Mexicans and Mexican-Americans who live in the United States is an estimated $450 billion. Mexico's output is a little less than $600 billion.
Mr. Fox has moved ahead of other Latin American leaders in trying to attract more "migradolares," or migrants' dollars, and in carrying out programs aimed at harnessing the power of the southward flood of money for development.
"These guys are potentially, and into the foreseeable future, the most important economic partner of Mexico," said Deputy Foreign Minister Enrique Berruga. "It's good that we have investment from Finland and from Singapore and what have you. But more important is to get these guys engaged."
In an interview, President Fox echoed concerns expressed in recent forums organized by the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank, lamenting that an overwhelming majority of immigrant dollars sent to Mexico were used to provide for the day-to-day survival of the poorest families. Little is saved. Even less is invested in projects that could stimulate economic growth.
"The families that receive the money," he said, "use it to buy shoes or beans, clothes or books for their children. Now we want to channel part of that money for production, for projects that generate jobs."
Mr. Fox has expanded government programs that match, peso for peso, the money that immigrants send for public works projects in their home communities.
Mexican officials have also negotiated with banks and wire transfer agencies in the United States to make it easier and cheaper for immigrants to send money home. Beginning in December some 15 banking institutions with branches from Los Angeles to Delaware agreed to allow immigrants from Mexico, whether in this country legally or not, to use identification cards they receive from Mexican consulates to open bank accounts.
The accounts will allow immigrants to send A.T.M. cards to relatives back home, so rather than spending $25 to send $200 at a typical money transfer counter, immigrants can give their families access to funds in the United States for about $3 per transaction.
In the wake of the attacks on the United States last September, the Mexican government has begun to distribute new digitally coded consular identification cards, which check an applicant's information against computerized census and voter rolls in Mexico. The first cards were distributed here last week.
Mexican officials said that during three weeks in December in Oxnard, Calif., some 12,000 new accounts were opened, averaging about $3,500 each. Officials at Bank of America estimated that new accounts had generated $50 million for financial institutions across California.
The Mexican consul in Chicago, Carlos Sada, reported that his staff could barely keep up with the demand for the new identification cards. Hortensia Martinez, 30, a hotel maid and the single mother of a 2-year-old, said she had heard about the possibility of using the ID cards to open bank accounts, and she thought that having an account might inspire her to save a portion of her $300 weekly income. "I want to open a restaurant in Mexico," she said. "That way my son will never have to work for anyone but himself."
Recognizing their own potential, Mexican immigrants across the United States have organized themselves in the last decade into powerful hometown clubs that finance public works projects and small businesses in Mexican communities that would otherwise languish. 
They raise money among themselves to build roads, install water and sewage systems, erect schools and distribute scholarships.
Officials at the United Federation of Zacatecas Clubs in Illinois said they expected to provide nearly one-quarter of the $2.5 million to be spent in Zacatecas this year for baseball parks, highway construction, computer centers and community meeting halls.
On a day when the Archdiocese of Chicago announced the closing of several black Catholic churches, Jose Luis Gutierrez, president of an Illinois federation of clubs from the state of Michoacan, boasted that his member organizations had financed the construction or renovation of dozens of churches across that state in central Mexico.
The money comes as a mixed blessing to communities across rural Mexico. Ricardo Morales's hometown, Susticacan, population 1,350, has been transformed from a tumbledown village into a well-manicured but empty town.
Many of its 400 homes have American-style facades. But most of them are empty, because their owners live in the United States. Enrollment at the elementary and junior high school, built partly with money from immigrants, steadily declines.
"All the progress you see here comes thanks to the United States," said Anacleto Santiago, 77, who raised six sons while working in Chicago. They all work in Chicago now, and he receives help from them.
But Mr. Santiago also acknowledged that as more pretty houses go up in Susicacan, more and more people go north. "If it weren't for God," he said, "this place would be completely abandoned."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Customers lined up at a money transfer office, above, in a Latin American neighborhood of Chicago. One place that receives such remittances is the village of Susticacan, below, in the Mexican state of Zacatecas. (Scott Olson for The New York Times); (Lynsey Addario/Saba, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); BUDGETS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); WIRE TRANSFERS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); FAMILY (77%); TRENDS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) MIGRANT LABOR; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (57%) THOMPSON, GINGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%) MEXICO; LATIN AMERICA; CARIBBEAN AREA; INDIA

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



655 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Diary 

BYLINE:  By Enid Nemy

 BODY:
DEAR DIARY: 
I was traveling by plane between California and Kennedy with my small dog in a sherpa bag under the seat in front of me. The dog is not a good traveler and was scratching at the mesh part of the bag, trying to get out. Afraid she would rip a hole in it, I spent the better part of the trip with my head lowered, alternately admonishing her to stop and gently telling her to relax, neither of which worked. When the plane landed and the seat belt light went out, I took her out and put her in a pouch on my chest. The man in the row next to me was surprised. "I can't believe you had a dog this whole trip," he said. "Didn't you hear her scratching?" I asked. "No," he said. "Didn't you see me talking to the dog?" I asked. "Yah, but I just figured you were from New York," he said. Sandi Schiffman

Dear Diary:
 During a recent shopping trip to an upscale boutique, I was waiting for my items to be rung up when I heard a dialogue between a saleswoman and the customer next to me. The saleswoman leaned across the counter and opened a case of Gucci wraparound sunglasses. "This is the hottest style right now," she said. After noting a skeptical look on the customer's face, she said: "Look, it's Gucci. It's the hottest thing -- even if you don't like it." At that, the customer actually said, "Really? O.K.," and paid $268 for them right there. I guess it was all in the delivery. Charity Curley

Dear Diary:
I joined my sister one Saturday morning to help her look for a couch for her living room, and after several hours, we decided to make Bloomingdale's our last stop. We were in the furniture department testing a couch when we noticed a man with a camera on a tripod taking pictures of an attractive woman posing in front of a hutch, then stretched out on a lovely bed and curled up in a club chair and finally, seated at a beautifully set dining room table.
We assumed that the pictures were for a magazine layout. So I approached the man and asked him about it. He smiled mischievously and said the woman he was photographing was his bride from Germany and they wanted to show her family how well they had furnished their apartment. Julie Glassberg

Dear Diary:
After a late night out with friends, I rushed to Pennsylvania Station to try to catch the last train to Princeton. Missing it by minutes, I found myself with three long hours to kill before the next train at 5.30 a.m. I decided to get something to eat, but made a stop in the men's room first. When I entered, I was greeted by a homeless man who told me he was hungry and asked if I could help. Inspired by several reasons, including the nightcap I had just finished at a jazz club, I invited the man to join me for breakfast. Before I knew it, Lewis and I were soaring down Seventh Avenue in a cab to a diner that he recommended and said would be open. We spent the next hour enjoying steak and eggs and cake for dessert, and we talked about growing up, our lives and some of the reasons behind his homelessness.
After I had paid the bill, Lewis politely asked if he could have some money to get him through the next day, and I handed him a $10 bill from the change I had received. He thanked me and we hailed a return cab. When we were back at Penn Station, I reached for my wallet to pay the cabby. Lewis stopped me. "Hold on, Mark, this one's on me," he said. He reached into his wallet, pulled out the ten-spot I had given him and paid the fare. Mark A. Sanders

MARCH ECONOMICS
It's almost spring:
Stripped trees reveal:
clumped leaves sheltering squirrels,
a wasp's perfect mud house;
a hollow tree that claims the fox,
a robin gathering lint from dried laundry
proclaiming "great building material."
All around me
affordable housing.
 Phyllis Brusiloff
Stephanie Lazar and a friend dined at an Upper West Side restaurant and handed the waitress a credit card, only to be told that only cash was accepted. Shouldn't that policy be written somewhere, Ms. Lazar queried, perhaps on a window or the menu? "But it is written somewhere," the waitress said. "It's posted on the cash register."

PERENNIAL
The darkness still clung to morning
And the flowers stayed curled in their embraces.
The cool night air lingered
And they huddled and hid their faces.
Memories of sunshine days
Keep them strong and fearless.
They're sure to tilt their heads again
And sway to those warm smooth breezes.
As the sun burns through the haze
Some wake and shade their eyes.
Others squint and clear the foggy pane
To see the flowers, arms outstretched
Welcoming another day.
 Jiuliana Malfatti

Dear Diary:
With my Westie, Maisie Glover, in tow, I was trying to hail a cab. An elderly woman crossed the street toward me, glaring. Suddenly she asked me, "which way are you going?" I pointed in the direction of Central Park and then wondered why I had done so.
"You're never going to get a cab with that dog," she said. I ignored her and thought to myself, "I always get a cab and why do you care?" Just when I thought she was going to walk away, still glaring, she said, "You stand there and hide your dog -- I'll get you a cab and then you can jump in." I was baffled, but if she had nothing better to do, I didn't mind if she hailed a cab for me.
To my surprise, she did and followed through with "the act" to the end. She opened the door for me and said in a perky voice, "So I'll see you later, O.K?" Kathy Park

Dear Diary:
The other day on my way to jogging, I noticed a police truck towing away a car parked in a crosswalk. Another car was waiting behind them to take the illegal parking place when it was vacant. Only in New York, I thought. But the police officer went over to the waiting car and spoke to the driver, obviously saying the space was illegal, and the man drove off. Fifteen minutes later, as I returned, the space was taken. The question is was it the same driver, who had merely gone around the block? I had my suspicions. Seymour Lipkin

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Phil Marden) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (89%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%); GERMANY (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



656 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: OKLAHOMA CITY BOMBING; 
Advice on the Task of Rebuilding, From a Mayor Who Knows Terror's Toll

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Standing in the pit and looking up at damage done by the worst terrorist attack in American history, Oklahoma City Mayor Kirk Humphreys could not help but think of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building.
 Ground zero was one of the few things about New York City that reminded him of home. The twisted metal beams. The chunks of rubble. The scores of rescue workers and firefighters sifting through debris. The weeping widows. 
 Mr. Humphreys was in Lower Manhattan on Friday with his wife, Danna, and his 15-year-old daughter, Annie. This was a personal trip, and they were looking up from the bottom of the pit, a place visited by few people outside of rescue workers. He wanted to come here so that Danna, and especially Annie, could see it.
During his visit, Mr. Humphreys offered some advice for New Yorkers -- some ideas about the anguish, the bickering, the rebuilding that lies ahead. At that moment, he was staring up at the torn-open subway tunnels, the exposed sub-basements, the firefighters using sticks to sift through debris for personal effects: a wallet, a badge, a shred of clothing.
The differences between the events of Sept. 11 and what happened in Oklahoma City on April 19, 1995 -- the day a truck packed with ammonium nitrate fertilizer ripped through the Murrah Building -- are clear: in Oklahoma City, 168 people were killed in the fall of the Murrah Building; in New York, the death toll is more than 2,800. In Oklahoma City, one rescue worker was lost; in New York, it was more than 400. But the differences are in size and statistics. Not in anguish and suffering. Not in what each event meant to America. "The area of ground zero, 12 blocks or so, is about the size of our entire downtown," Mr. Humphreys said. "I tell people that what happened on 9/11 would have wiped out something the size of downtown. But the World Trade Center was an attack on America, and so was Oklahoma City."
"Shared Experience" is the theme of an exhibit scheduled to open April 19 at the Oklahoma City National Memorial, the former site of the Murrah Building. There will be a tribute to the seven New York City firefighters and two police officers who died on Sept. 11 and who had helped in search-and-rescue efforts at the Murrah Building.
One of those men, Deputy Chief Ray Downey, the leader of the special operations command in New York, has been credited with saving dozens of lives in Oklahoma City. He disappeared on Sept. 11 while leading a team of firefighters into the south tower. He was wearing a Catholic rosary that had been given to him by Oklahoma Gov. Frank Keating.
The exhibit will also include tributes to New York Battalion Chief John J. Fanning; Capt. Terence S. Hatton; Lts. Kevin C. Dowdell, Michael A. Esposito and Peter C. Martin; Firefighter William D.Lake; Police Sgt. Michael S. Curtin; and Officer Thomas Langone.
"They were good men," Mr. Humphreys said. "They helped us in our time of need."
New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, both consulted Mr. Humphreys -- whose job pays about $24,000 a year and whose city has about 500,000 people, some 7.5 million fewer than New York City -- on economic development, tourism, memorials and recovery.
Mr. Humphreys, who was elected in 1998 and won a second term this month, has been credited with rebuilding Oklahoma City, as well as attracting tourists and businesses downtown by making it more of a cultural center. (Mr. Humphreys did this without anything like the $21.5 billion in federal money that has been promised to New York; Oklahoma City received $54 million.)
In Oklahoma City, victims of what was at that time the worst terrorist attack on American soil received no federal compensation, something that was done in New York, he said, to keep them from suing the airlines. "We think victims' compensation is opening Pandora's box," Mr. Humphreys explained over breakfast at the W Times Square hotel. "Once you go there, where do you stop? What's the value of a life, whether it is a bond trader in the World Trade Center or a sergeant in Afghanistan?"
He added: "I think throwing money at victims is like a wealthy father whose kid is in trouble and his father hands him $100. And the kid says, 'I don't want your money, I need you.' "
He does not believe that the owner of 7 World Trade Center, Larry A. Silverstein, should begin rebuilding before victims' families have been consulted and city officials have looked at all their options.
"My advice here is just to commit to finding that consensus, whatever that is," Mr. Humphreys said. "It's just going to be extremely difficult here because you are so diverse, and religious, cultural and other issues come into play. Ours was tough, but ours was a piece of cake compared to this one."
He said the emotional response would be the hardest, and he emphasized the need to make long-term counseling available. "The physical is the easiest part," he said, "and right when you think it is over, you realize that you need to address those other needs."
He believes New York will do well, but the effects of Sept. 11 are not over. "On the morning of April 19, 1995, there were some people who woke up with their lives spinning out of control -- and then the bomb went off," he said. "You are going to have many people struggling for a long time. More substance abuse. More divorce. More emotional burnout. More suicides."
Focus on hearts and minds, not wallets, he said.
Seven stories below ground, in the pit, Mr. Humphreys stared up as he talked with a friend, Capt. Al Navaretta of the New York Fire Department. Captain Navaretta's wife, Rita, was standing nearby. 
Just the day before, workers had found the wallet of a friend of theirs who had died on Sept. 11, making it an emotional time for the couple.
About two months ago, the Navarettas visited Oklahoma City. "I felt like I was reliving New York again," Mrs. Navaretta said. "The same exact thing, just on a smaller scale."
Annie Humphreys was in the second grade when the bombing struck Oklahoma City. She can tell how it changed life, and how this will forever change New York.
"It's just something you do not get over," she said, riding in a Fire Department truck, the trade center site fading in the background. "It's not something you just get over."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At ground zero with Fire Capt. Al Navaretta, left, Mayor Kirk Humphreys of Oklahoma City recalled his hometown's experience with terror. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); HISTORY (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); FERTILIZERS (65%); MISSING PERSONS (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); AIRLINES (60%) TERRORISM; FIRES AND FIREMEN; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; PENTAGON BUILDING 

ORGANIZATION: ;FIRE DEPARTMENT (NYC) 

PERSON: HUMPHREYS, KIRK (MAYOR); BLAIR, JAYSON; MCVEIGH, TIMOTHY JAMES; NICHOLS, TERRY LYNN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; OKLAHOMA CITY (OKLA); WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



657 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Wishing for a Velvet Rope To Keep Nightclubs Out 

BYLINE:  By COLIN MOYNIHAN 

 BODY:
It was a recent Friday night on the Lower East Side, and at the nightclub Mint, on the corner of East Houston and Essex Streets, business was being conducted much as usual. Groups of people in their 20's sipped $7 bottles of beer or $11 mixed drinks. As colored lights flashed and dance music blared, partyers bobbed and shimmied. A woman wearing maroon velvet pants cuddled up on a couch next to a man dressed head to toe in black.
 This velvet-rope nightclub, known until November as Chaos, draws crowds from the five boroughs and beyond, but it is less popular with local residents and officials. Last year patrons at this former bank building were reported to be involved in 26 criminal incidents, more than double the number attributed to patrons of any other bar in the area, according to a police report. The offenses included grand larceny, assault, robbery, menacing, harassment and sexual abuse. 
 Underlying some residents' anger is a frustration that their neighborhood is in danger of becoming something akin to a theme park for nightlife.
Community Board 3, which represents the Lower East Side, recommended in May 2001 that Chaos's liquor license be revoked, citing arrests for gun possession and assault with a weapon. The State Liquor Authority allowed the club to continue selling liquor. But on March 11, a community board committee opposed renewing the license. 
"We didn't think they should be granted permission to renew," said Alexandra Militano, the chairwoman of Community Board 3's State Liquor Authority committee. "They don't appear to be capable of controlling their crowd."
Tony Theodore, president of the Old Banque Corporation, which owns Mint and its previous incarnation, Chaos, defended his company's management. 
"We have an incredibly good record of controlling the crowd, considering the fact that it is a nightclub, not a tea-and-crumpet stand," he said. "Every time we've attended a community board meeting, they have refused to listen to us." Mr. Theodore added that the police figures reflect only complaints, not convictions. 
A spokesman for the State Liquor Authority, Mark Anderson, said that the agency held two hearings on criminal incidents involving club patrons and that both times an administrative judge ruled that the charges were not sustained. Although the State Liquor Authority considers suggestions from community boards, it is not bound to follow recommendations.
Loud or rowdy nightclubs that antagonize neighbors are a fact of life in New York City, and some have been the target of strong actions. In 1990, for example, the Department of Consumer Affairs sought to revoke the liquor license of the Underground, a Union Square nightclub cited by the police in five killings involving patrons. In 1989, the State Liquor Authority revoked a license for the World, a club at East Second Street near Avenue C with a reputation of violence. That same year, a large discotheque at 10th Avenue and 18th Street, called 1018, where the police said least 20 shootings and stabbings had occurred in the previous year, closed after the city filed a civil suit seeking to shut it down. 
Orderliness aside, the increase in the number of bars has residents worried. There are 99 businesses licensed to sell beer, wine or liquor for consumption on their premises within the 10002 ZIP code, an area bordered by the East River, the Bowery and East Houston Street. Sixty-one licenses were granted in 2000 or 2001. In its neighboring ZIP code, 10009, which extends north from East Houston Street up to 20th Street, 153 businesses have liquor licenses, many issued within the past few years.
Although Community Board 3 has recommended a moratorium on bars for certain blocks, its chairwoman, Lisa Kaplan said their influence is limited.
"The S.L.A. does not find it in their heart to be responsive to the Community Board and appears at times to completely disregard the actions of the Community Board." she said.
Mr. Anderson said that he regretted that perception and termed it unfair. "We place a great deal of weight and value on community board decisions," he said.
Regulations forbid liquor licenses to be granted within 200 feet of a school or place of worship, or within 500 feet of three existing licensed establishments -- unless, after consulting with a community board, the State Liquor Authority decides a license is in the public interest. But local people say those rules are not always observed. 
"When you have a dozen bars close together, you attract big crowds who literally bar-hop, create noise problems and urinate in public," said State Senator Martin Connor, who recently wrote a letter objecting to the issuance of a liquor license on Ludlow Street, where there are already 12 bars within 500 feet of one another. "Creating an entertainment district in the middle of a residential neighborhood is not appropriate," he said. 
Nevertheless, Lower East Side streets teem with drinkers, many of them from other neighborhoods. Residents often encounter shattered glass and piles of refuse discarded by night-time revelers. But those who oppose new liquor licenses in the neighborhood cite economic concerns as well as public safety issues.
Though they agree that some peaceful bars are fine, they complain that the newest bars have raised the market rental rate for local storefronts to an unreasonable level.
"Bodegas, bakeries, dry cleaners and mom-and-pop stores on the Lower East Side pay between $1,000 and $1,500 per month in rent," said Susan Howard, president of the Norfolk Street Block Association. "Bar rents are estimated between $5,000 and $7,500 per month. As a result, the smaller stores are often evicted to make way for the high-end rents, which only bars can pay." It has hastened the gentrification of the neighborhood, she said, where residential rents have increased steeply over the last decade.
Although the bars affect their leases, some local shop owners say that they welcome the visitors, perhaps for the money they bring. But others say they have come to distrust throngs of young people out drinking.
Nazim Uddin, the owner of the Banga Bazar, a bodega on Essex Street that is close to Mint, said that particularly turbulent crowds gather at the club on Sunday nights.
He said that bands of youths had stormed into his store, then fled after stealing food and knocking over shelves.
And a few months ago, Mr. Uddin said, a drunken man urinated on the floor of the Banga Bazar, brandished a knife and beat up an elderly man who was drinking tea inside the bodega. "It was very bad," he recalled. "I was scared."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patrons stand in line for Mint, one of several businesses licensed to serve liquor on the Lower East Side. It is popular with visitors, not residents.; Mint, a club on the Lower East Side, draws partygoers from the five boroughs and beyond. Some local officials want its liquor license revoked. (Photographs by Edwine Seymour for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (89%); WOMEN (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); LARCENY & THEFT (74%); LITIGATION (74%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); ROBBERY (73%); BEER & ALE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); JUDGES (60%); MUSIC (57%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (54%) NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, COLIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; LOWER EAST SIDE (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



658 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Analysis of Stimulus Package Has City Losing $300 Million 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
A new analysis of the economic stimulus package that Congress passed earlier this month -- which was conceived as strong medicine to create jobs and spur investment -- points out that it may have some unwanted side effects in New York City.
 The measure could cost the city, which is already struggling financially, almost $300 million in lost tax revenue over the next two years, according to an analysis by the Independent Budget Office, the city's nonpartisan budget watchdog. The lost revenue would make it harder for the city to close the $4.76 billion deficit it faces in the fiscal year beginning on July 1. 
 The trouble, city officials say, is that the stimulus package seeks to jump-start the economy by cutting federal taxes. But since the city's business and income taxes are calculated based on the corresponding federal taxes, the stimulus package will effectively grant businesses cuts in their city taxes as well.
Ronnie Lowenstein, the director of the Independent Budget Office, said that while in the long term the stimulus package was expected to spur economic growth and allow the city to collect more in taxes, it would reduce revenues in the short term.
The budget office calculated that the city stood to lose $93 million in revenues this year, and an additional $204 million in the next fiscal year.
City Councilman Bill Perkins, a Democrat who represents Harlem and the Upper West Side, asked the budget office to analyze the stimulus measure. "We are all looking for solutions right now," he said, "but some of the solutions are opening up new problems."
The analysis by the budget office said that to avoid the revenue losses, the city would have to either persuade Congress to amend the newly enacted measure or lobby the New York State Legislature to allow the city to calculate its taxes differently.
New York City is hardly alone in worrying about revenue losses. The National Governors Association estimated that the stimulus package would cost state governments $14.7 billion in lost revenues over the next three years.
New York City and New York State have severed the link with federal taxes in the past. In 1982, after a large federal tax cut threatened to cost the city and state money in lost revenue, the state decoupled the taxes for both, the budget office noted. 
"Given that the state is also facing a revenue loss from the stimulus bill, the governor and the Legislature may move to decouple the state system as well," Ms. Lowenstein wrote in her analysis.
Gov. George E. Pataki's office did not return a call seeking comment yesterday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT BUDGET OFFICE (NYC) 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



659 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Kentucky Foals Appear Well a Year After Plague 

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Ky., Mar.20 

 BODY:
Spring is sweeping as bountifully as ever across the bluegrass pastures of the thoroughbred horse farms. The season's early foals are tottering upright in the barns and prancing forward from the starting gate of life.
 The newborns' gamboling is a sight more precious than ever as the Kentucky thoroughbred industry anxiously watches for any return of the mysterious illness that ravaged breeding farms a year ago, taking the lives of an estimated 3,000 or more foals and fetuses at the height of spring. 
 "We don't know that there wasn't a Secretariat in those mares," said Ric Waldman, the breeding consultant at Overbrook Farm. He evoked the historic competitor in pondering last year's decimation of the foal crop and what would have been its progeny. 
The loss on the hoof is estimated in the hundreds of millions of dollars. But even more dear is the incalculable effect on the breeding industry of Kentucky, the world's leader. This state's horses account for three of every four winners of the Kentucky Derby and countless championship performances in the finest circles of thoroughbred racing. 
"We're deep into the breeding and foaling season, and there have been no apparent problems from last year's onslaught," Mr. Waldman carefully summarized. He echoed the cautious optimism gripping the industry as it headed toward the spring round of fresh racing and horse auctions at Keeneland Race Course, the world's leading marketplace for thoroughbred sales. 
"The mares that aborted last year are back in foal," said David Switzer, executive director of the Kentucky Thoroughbred Association, thankful that one major concern had been laid to rest. "Now we're looking toward April and the Keeneland race meet. That's what tells us winter is gone and we're ready for spring." 
At the Overbrook barns, Mr. Waldman counted 49 healthy foals. More are on the way, with no sign of last spring's lethal illness, a continuing mystery called Mare Reproductive Loss Syndrome. It swept the thoroughbred pastures like a scythe, with a rate of abortion and dead foals 700 percent higher than normal. 
The prime suspects include combinations of unusual factors, from tent caterpillars to wild cherry trees to a microscopic fungus. Most critical, in the consensus view, was an unusual pattern of hot dry spring weather followed by a hard freeze that left the pasture grasses stressed. 
So far, there has been no similar weather pattern. Confidence is gently rising with each healthy new foal. 
"Spring is special around here," Mr. Waldman said. "The 2-year-olds are just starting their breezes," he said of the local racetrack workouts in which youngsters are tested against time. "The 3-year-olds are developing before our eyes into Derby material. There is excitement and hope." 
To help life recycle, Overbrook is wielding the mighty Storm Cat, the sire of sires among thoroughbreds, the highest earning stallion, with a stud fee of $500,000 for each foal delivered. 
Storm Cat dutifully treks from paddock to breeding shed undaunted by last spring's debacle. He has been doing his bit for the recovery of his kind, with well over 100 mares booked for this year and his conception rate as strong as ever. 
Darkly handsome and resurgent, the stallion seems just the sort of royal symbol of renewal Kentucky needs right now. 
A legendary producer of champions at 19, Storm Cat has sired 93 stakes winners in the last decade, and his progeny lately have been winning about $10 million a year in prizes. Last year, 20 of Storm Cat's offspring attracted an average price of $1.74 million at major yearling sales as owners bid strong to repair their damage and bolster the breed into the future. 
"Even though Storm Cat is arguably the best stallion in the world right now, he still doesn't have the following from people who may have remembered him as a racehorse," Mr. Waldman said as the horse stood grandly oblivious to the fickleness of fame. 
Breeders, not bettors, come by to visit and wonder at him. It could have been different; the colt just missed being the star 2-year-old thoroughbred of his time, losing at the wire in the Breeders Cup Juvenile.
"He was injured soon after and was a forgotten name," Mr. Waldman said. "But Storm Cat would not allow success to escape him." 
Neither would the Overbrook owner, William T. Young, who sensed his breeding possibilities. After some lean early years, Storm Cat's offspring began running noticeably in the money and his stud fee rocketed. Storm Cat has compounded his value by having sired stallions that themselves proved to be effective studs. 
"He had his share of loss from in-foal mares last year," Mr. Waldman said. "Who's to guess the full economic impact of taking 17 Storm Cats out of circulation," he said, counting the lost fetuses and foals from mares of this champion sire, each of which would have been worth more than $1 million if it had survived. 
The losses of last year will linger into the future, thinning out successive generations of competitors and breeding stock, Mr. Waldman said, describing last spring as the most disastrous in his 28 years in thoroughbred breeding. 
"But time is a great tonic," he said, counting on the resilience of the bluegrass stallions and brood mares of Kentucky. "We'll get over this, but it won't be immediate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Storm Cat, a champion sire, will help rejuvenate the Kentucky thoroughbred industry. He is led by a groom, Kevin Stevens, at Overbrook Farm. (Stewart Bowman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (93%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (92%); HORSE RACING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); WEATHER (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ABORTION (56%) HORSE RACING; REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); THOROUGHBRED RACING; VIRUSES 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X 

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) KENTUCKY

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



660 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2414 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's Prized Exports Rely On Slaves and Scorched Land 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: XINGUARA, Brazil 

 BODY:
The recruiters gather at the bus station here in this grimy Amazon frontier town, waiting for the weary and the desperate to disembark. When they spot a target, they promise him a steady job, good pay, free housing and plenty of food. A quick handshake seals the deal.
 But for thousands of peasants, that handshake ensures a slide into slavery. No sooner do they board the battered trucks that take them to work felling trees and tending cattle deep in the jungle than they find themselves mired in debt, under armed guard and unable to leave their new workplace. 
 "It was 12 years before I was finally able to escape and make my way back home," said Bernardo Gomes da Silva, 42. "We were forced to start work at 6 in the morning and to continue sometimes until 11 at night, but I was never paid during that entire time because they always claimed that I owed them money." 
Interviewed recently in his hometown, Barras, about 600 miles east of here, Mr. Gomes da Silva said particularly troublesome workers, especially those who kept asking for their wages, were sometimes simply killed.
"I can't read, so maybe a half-dozen different times I was ordered to burn the identity cards and work documents of workers who I had last seen walking down the road, supposedly on their way out," he said. "We also found heaps of bones out in the jungle, but none of us ever talked about it."
Brazil was the last country in the Americas to abolish slavery, in 1888, and forced labor for both blacks and whites continued throughout the 20th century in some rural areas. But government authorities admit that despite a federal crackdown announced seven years ago, "contemporary forms of slavery" in which workers are held in unpaid, coerced labor continue to flourish. The reasons range from ranchers in cahoots with corrupt local authorities to ineffective land reform policies and high unemployment. 
Perhaps most important, though, is the growing pressure to exploit and develop the Amazon's vast agricultural frontier, in part to supply foreign markets with two prized goods: timber and beef.
In the jungle west of here, fortunes are being made clearing the forest and harvesting mahogany and other tropical hardwoods, including jatoba and ipe. The United States is the main importer of Brazilian mahogany, and though logging has been permitted only in 13 designated areas, Greenpeace, the advocacy group, has listed nearly 100 companies it says deal in illegal mahogany to meet a growing demand from American furniture makers.
Furniture companies like Ethan Allen and L. & J. G. Stickley say their mahogany comes only from "suppliers that advise us that they comply with responsible forest practices," as Ethan Allen Interiors Inc. of Danbury, Conn., put it in a statement. But the companies also acknowledge that they do not have independent monitors and do not believe that they should have to determine the origin of imported wood.
"We cannot do the job of the Brazilian government," said Aminy Audi, an owner of Stickley, a big buyer of Brazilian mahogany in Manlius, N.Y., for its own stores and a manufacturer for other brands. "We have to believe the certification, and we have had no reason to believe otherwise."
Brazilian government statistics indicate that Aljoma Lumber of Medley, Fla., near Miami, was the largest importer of Brazilian mahogany in the United States in 2000. Asked about slave labor in the Amazon, the company's vice president for hardwoods, Romel Bezerra, said that "there is no such thing these days," and insisted that his company's mahogany came from legal sources.
"Brazil has put in place many, many regulations, with export licenses and stamps all over the place," he said. "They have established strict controls on logging and cutting and transportation and export, so it is impossible to ship mahogany illegally."
But the Brazilian government has estimated that as much as 80 percent of Amazon timber comes from illegal sources, according to a confidential 1997 report. In booming mill towns like this one, dealers openly resell, copy or simply counterfeit the government certificates needed to export timber. 
When a shipment of mahogany reaches the port of Belem for shipment to the United States, government inspectors have no way to determine its origin.
As the trees have fallen, there has also been a huge expansion in cattle ranches that raise grass-fed "green beef." Brazil's commercial cattle herd, the largest in the world, generally does not eat manufactured feed or synthetic supplements.
That makes Brazilian beef especially attractive in Europe and the Middle East, where fears of mad cow disease are still strong. Exports of Brazilian beef, fresh and processed, grew 30 percent in 2001, to $1 billion, according to government statistics.
"Slave labor in Brazil is directly linked to deforestation," Claudio Secchin, director of the Ministry of Labor's special antislavery Mobile Enforcement Team, said in an interview in Brasilia. "There are more and more cattle ranchers who want to increase the size of their herds, but to do that they need more space, so the clearing of land is a constant."
In 1995, the first year that Mr. Secchin's team operated, 288 farmworkers were freed from what was officially described as slavery, a total which rose to 583 in 2000. Last year, however, the government freed more than 1,400 slave laborers.
Mr. Secchin attributed the increase to "the growth both of slave labor and of our efficiency in combating it." But he acknowledged that most cases probably go undetected.
A national survey conducted in 2000 by the Pastoral Land Commission, a Roman Catholic Church group, estimated that there were more than 25,000 forced workers. A decade ago, there were less than 5,000.

Desperation and Coercion
Mr. Gomes da Silva, a slight, bearded man, said he had been forced to work on four ranches over a dozen years and had met hundreds of other slave laborers. Recent interviews with more than a score of other former victims produced similar accounts of forced labor, nonpayment for work and threats or use of violence.
The task of felling trees, some so tall they block out sunlight, is dangerous and exhausting work. The unrelenting heat bathes workers in sweat that causes chainsaws and axes to slip from their grip and draws mosquitoes, flies and chiggers that bite incessantly and transmit diseases. The dense smoke from incinerated tree trunks stings the eyes, and predators like leopards and cougars are often close by.
Still, many of the workers, desperate for any work, had journeyed hundreds of miles to Amazon towns like this one and accepted employment at ranches even deeper in the jungle. Once on the job, however, they discovered that their pay would be less than promised, and that they would be charged for transportation and forced to pay inflated prices for the food, lodging, medicine and tools.
"We were obliged to make our purchases at the ranch's cantina, since we couldn't go to town and the foreman forced everyone to remain in the area," said Gilvan Gomes da Silva, 22. "But everything at the cantina was more than double the price it would have been in town."
In addition, former slave laborers describe living and working conditions as abysmal. Mr. Gomes da Silva recalled the time he spent on a ranch with 48,000 head of cattle as particularly difficult. Forced to spray chemicals to clear pastureland but deprived of protective gloves and masks, he became ill and was plunged deeper into debt when a foreman charged him for the medicines used to treat him.
"The cattle were treated better than we were, since they were at least fattened up in buildings with concrete floors, while we had to sleep out in the jungle," he said.
"The only time we ever ate meat," he added "was when they had rotten beef they were desperate to get rid of, and so there were men who didn't have enough to eat and became weaker and weaker until they just got sick and died."
The peons, as they are called here, were often told they would not be paid and threatened with violence to keep them from complaining or leaving. "When I asked to receive my wages, the foreman told me 'Kid, your salary is right here,' and pointed to his revolver," said Gilvan Rodrigues Freitas, 29.
Workers fall into the trap of slave labor in different ways. But the most common is to be recruited by the "gatos," or "cats," who go to towns deep in Brazil's two poorest states, Piaui and Maranhao, to hire laborers.
"They talk a good game, sweet-talking you and promising you everything when they want you to sign up with them," said Francisco Souza de Santos, 54, a former slave laborer. "But they change their tune just as soon as they have you in their clutches."
Onboard the bus, a fiery sugarcane liquor called cachaca starts flowing. 
Days later, over bumpy, remote roads, the workers arrive in a compliant mood.
"Our trip lasted five days, but we only had three meals," said Onatan Alves da Silva, 53, one of 170 recruited workers who traveled on four buses to a ranch west of here. "Two young guys named Fernando and Severino wanted to go back, but the contractor," who was heavily armed, "hit and threatened them, saying he could fill them full of holes if he wanted to."
Going to the local police for help, however, is often futile.
Sworn statements by workers fleeing slavery are on file at the local office of the Pastoral Land Commission here, reporting incidents in which they went to the police in Maraba to complain of being held as slaves and were promptly returned by the police to the ranch from which they came.
"On the ranch where I was held, the cops were really tight with the foreman, who walked around with a .38 pistol in his belt," said Reinaldo Carvalho da Silva, 23. "They'd come around to his house to have coffee and gossip, so there was no way I could go to them."
But it is also common for ranchers and contractors to decide that a worker is no longer needed and to tell him that they will "forgive" his debt. The worker can then leave, but must find his way through the trackless jungle to a settlement usually at one of the many shabby "pioneer hotels," that take lodgers on credit.
In reality, these boarding houses are essential to perpetuating the system. Cut off from their families and unable to find anyone to help them, escapees and fired workers find themselves once again becoming prey for the gato.
Outside one pioneer hotel in Sao Felix do Xingu stood Baltazar Ribeiro dos Santos. The government's enforcement team had freed him in a raid last August, but a few weeks later he owed about $44 to his landlady and risked being sold to the next recruiter who would pay the tab.
"I'm so ashamed," he said. "Nothing like this has ever happened to me before in the 24 years that I have spent as a roving laborer. How did I let myself get ripped off like that? I feel like slitting my throat. How can I go home to face my wife and kids? I left with nothing, but I can't go back with nothing."
Benta Borges, the owner of the hotel, first claimed not to know what a gato was. But eventually she acknowledged her relationship with the labor recruiters.
"There's corruption in the whole world," she said when pressed about her business. "Whatever arrangements the ranchers or contractors make with the peons is their business, not ours. We just give them lodging. We don't ask questions."

Toothless Enforcement
Many ranchers are influential businessmen or powerful politicians. Last summer, for instance, the enforcement team, acting on a tip, raided a ranch west of Sao Felix do Xingu owned by Francisco Nonato de Araujo, from Piaui, where he is a member of the state Legislature, a prominent official in the ruling party and, until recently, the state secretary of agriculture.
The raid freed Baltazar Ribeiro dos Santos and 59 other workers, some of them ill with malaria, from what was categorized as slavery.
Mr. Araujo did not respond to telephone messages left for him at his offices and on his cellular phone. But he has at various times told local newspapers and radio stations that the ranch belongs not to him but to his father, blamed the ranch foreman for withholding the workers' wages and argued that "this type of hiring is standard practice in the region."
The enforcement team cannot arrest or prosecute offenders itself, and must rely on the local state's attorneys and courts, many of which are either indifferent to slavery or openly sympathetic to ranchers.
In addition, the Labor Ministry unit is chronically short of money and resources.
At least part of the vacuum has been filled by the Catholic Church, whose Pastoral Land Commission distributes a pamphlet to potential recruits warning them to keep their "Eyes Open So As Not to End Up A Slave." Many of the workers, however, are illiterate.
"Alerting workers to the danger is not enough to stop them," said the Rev. Ricardo Rezende, who works with former slave laborers. "Their thinking is that 'If I am hungry enough, I will run the risk and hope that this contractor is better than the other ones, because it's better to take that chance than let my family die of hunger.' "
But Mr. Bezerra, the timber company executive in Florida, dismisses talk of slave labor as "lies and politics," propagated by ambitious officials "who want to run for office and want the green banner behind them."
He, too, is a Brazilian, once lived in the Amazon and still travels to the region four times a year. He says he has never seen even a single sign of slave labor.
Both the Catholic Church and the environmental movement, he continued, are infiltrated by "watermelons, people who are green on the outside and red on the inside."
"That's right," Mr. Bezerra said. "They are a bunch of Communists who think that all businesses are bad."
But Brazil's most prominent antislavery crusader, Pureza Lopes Loyola, a peasant woman from Maranhao, tells a very different story. Her brother, Ataide, went to work on an Amazon ranch in 1974 and was never heard from again. When the same fate befell her teenaged son, Abel, eight years ago, she set off on a three-year odyssey until he was finally found.
"Everywhere I went," she said, "I saw the same scenes of workers suffering from malaria, hepatitis other dreadful diseases, prevented from leaving by armed guards. Now I have a grandson, and I fear for him.
"I pray to God every day for the government to go after this whole structure of slavery so that he too doesn't fall into this terrible trap," she added.
"But I don't think they will."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 5, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A chart grouping on March 25 with an article about the use of slave workers to produce Brazilian exports of mahogany and beef misstated the name of an organization that provided data for the deforestation maps reflecting the increase in cattle ranching and timber harvesting. It was the TRFIC/World Wildlife Fund (Tropical RainForest Information Center), not the Traffic/World Wildlife Fund.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A recent federal raid on an estate in Brazil's Para state freed a number of people held as unpaid laborers. (Joao Ripper/Imagens Humanas); Bernardo Gomes da Silva worked as a forced laborer for 12 years. (Larry Rohter/The New York Times)(pg. A8) Chart: "Moving Exports, Clearing Land"Pressure to increase production of mahogany and beef, two coveted commoditites in Brazil, has contributed to the devastation of forests and to slave labor needed to support those efforts. BRAZIL'S EXPORTS Graph tracking Brazil's export production of mahogany and beef since 1996. BEEF 2001 -- tonsBRITAIN: 51,535UNITED STATES: 37,500ITALY: 2,737NETHERLANDS: 4,103PUERTO RIC0: 4,192 MAHOGANY 2001 -- cubic meters UNITED STATES: 28,370DOMINICAN REPUB.: 6,883BRITAIN: 2,621NETHERLANDS: 925CANADA: 593 *through Nov.(Sources: Michigan State University, Dept. of Geography; Traffic/ World Wildlife Fund; Brazil Dept. of Agriculture )(pg. A8) Map of Para,Brazil highlighting the forest and deforested areas. (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); SLAVERY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); FARM LABOR (77%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); ILLEGAL LOGGING (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); IMPORT TRADE (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (63%); FURNITURE STORES (62%); FURNITURE MFG (60%); RIVERS (59%) AGRICULTURE; SLAVE LABOR; MEAT; WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY; LAND USE POLICIES 

COMPANY: ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC (80%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (59%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: ETH (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (80%); NAICS337122 NONUPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (80%); SIC2515 MATTRESSES, FOUNDATIONS, & CONVERTIBLE BEDS (80%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (80%); SIC2511 WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE EX. UPHOLSTERED (80%)

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%) BRAZIL; AMAZON RIVER BASIN; 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



661 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Oscar's Home Is Smaller, but the Night Still Thrills Fans 

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, March 24 

 BODY:
The nature of adulation demands extraordinary sacrifices. People who revere Hollywood stars will go to the ends of the earth, or across the country at least, to catch a glimpse of the objects of their obsessions.
 "We drove all the way from Miami," said Elizabeth Birch, 28, a physician's assistant who traveled with her friend Lori Raskin, 33, a hospital administrator, after applying for bleacher seats on the Academy Awards' Web site. "We arranged our entire trip around this event. It's the American way, if you're into Hollywood." 
 Early this morning, as workers wrapped up last-minute hammering and assembling of bleachers and podiums on Hollywood Boulevard outside the Kodak Theater in anticipation of the 74th annual Academy Awards ceremony, the event's 400 least-heralded guests, chattering like excited children, began taking their places in the open-air seats that framed the burgundy-carpeted walkway leading to the auditorium.
In this era of all-encompassing security, fans for the first time were issued photo identification cards and were promised food, refreshments and disposable cameras for the almost daylong wait until the stars were to arrive. Once the celebrities appeared, the fans squealed and yelled, demanding a glance, a moment of reflected glory. Even the drizzle that began to fall about an hour before the ceremony did not dampen the giddiness, although women with meticulous coifs cast apprehensive eyes skyward.
There is no greater arena for celebrity than Hollywood, and no more alluring event for movie fans than the Oscars, the culmination of a three-month season in which the film industry celebrates itself, again and again. No matter how much other awards-granting organizations tout their significance, none come close to the sheer bombast of the Oscars, which throw this town into a tizzy and have far-reaching economic ramifications. Thousands of people -- caterers, chauffeurs, waiters, publicists, hairdressers and security guards -- are pressed into service. 
This year there were added complications, not least the event's new location, built to the specifications of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, sponsors of the awards. The Kodak Theater is considerably smaller than the Shrine Auditorium, the award ceremony's most frequent site in recent years, and even the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion. With just 3,100 seats in the Kodak, many of the academy's own members, as well as studio executives who normally consider themselves a shoo-in, were locked out, leading to dark mutterings and wounded feelings.
The upset over the lockouts -- as well as complaints that the acoustics in the Kodak Theater are so poor that some concert promoters have canceled events there -- prompted the administrator of the 76-year-old Shrine Auditorium to predict last week that the academy would opt out of its 20-year lease at the Kodak and return to the Shrine, with its 6,300 seats. As part of the enticement, the Shrine plans a $3 million renovation.
"Who knows until the show's over?" replied John Pavlik, an academy spokesman. "We might decide we couldn't do it from here after all. A lot of people have been complaining, but I think that's simply because it's a new venue and people just aren't used to it. It's hard to change something when you've been doing it in the same place for 10 or 12 years, but we're trying to do it as best we can. We know we'll have glitches. Monday will be a better day to look at that, although no one will be awake."
To make sure the Kodak was as ready as it could be, workers applied fresh paint to exterior walls this morning, as florists arranged towering arrangements along the path to the theater. On the football field at Hollywood High School two blocks to the south, a contingent of Los Angeles police officers, several hundred strong, massed for a briefing at midday before taking their places to augment a heavy security force already deployed.
For some of the Hollywood crowd, however, part of the modus operandi of the Oscars is to act as though the event is not such a big deal. On Saturday, at the Independent Spirit Awards in Santa Monica, Calif. -- held every year just before the Academy Awards to celebrate independent filmmakers -- several of the high-profile attendees made light of today's prizes, not-so-gently suggesting that the real quality is in the world of small-budget pictures rather than in the mainstream studio pictures that the Oscars usually focus on. At the same time, some pointed out, no award is worth getting all worked up about.
"Everyone wants to win, but no one will be slitting their wrists if they don't," said John Waters, director of "Cecil B. Demented" and "Hairspray." Mr. Waters said that, in any event, the gap between independents and studio pictures "is getting closer and closer," citing as evidence the fact that two pictures that did well at the Spirit awards -- "Memento," which pulled in four prizes on Saturday, and "In the Bedroom," with three -- were also Oscar contenders.
"Oh, for heaven's sake, who cares how big your trailer is, or even if you have one?" exclaimed Sissy Spacek, as she carried away the best-actress Spirit award for "Bedroom." "I want all independent filmmakers to remember, it's not the size of the dog in the fight, but the size of the fight in the dog."
The show, as in past years, was filled with funny lines. In her opening monologue, Whoopi Goldberg described "Iris," the story of the author Iris Murdoch's mental disintegration, as "a movie that even Ingmar Bergman found depressing."
Then Ms. Goldberg only briefly referred to the "national tragedy" of Sept. 11. "But we've recovered," she said. "Mariah Carey's already made another movie."
Woody Allen, in his first appearance at an Oscar show, came onstage to introduce a segment of clips about New York, assembled by Nora Ephron. Acknowledging a standing ovation, he said: "Thank you very much. That makes up for the strip search." He pointed out that, when the academy called a few weeks ago to ask him to participate, "I thought they wanted their Oscars back."
Nathan Lane, presenting the best animated feature Oscar, the first time it has been presented, said, "Up to now I thought 'Monsters, Inc.' was a documentary on the Weinsteins," a reference to the brothers who run Miramax Films, Bob and Harvey Weinstein. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fans with official Oscar ID cards await the stars at the Kodak Theater. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); EVENT MARKETING (75%); HOSPITALS (72%); CATERING SERVICES (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (69%) MOTION PICTURES; ACADEMY AWARDS (OSCARS); KODAK THEATER (LOS ANGELES) 

PERSON: MADIGAN, NICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



662 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Sun Aims to Extend a Lead

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 24 

 BODY:
In federal court, Sun Microsystems has portrayed Microsoft's Internet services software effort -- known as .Net -- as a virtually unstoppable monopoly. On Monday, Sun will try to cast itself as a Microsoft beater. 
 Sun, a major producer of software and hardware, plans to announce an ambitious effort for the wireless Internet -- a market in which Sun's Java programming language is already widely used and Microsoft's .Net is barely an also-ran. 
 At its annual JavaOne conference, which opens here on Monday, Sun will roll out a new set of Web services standards intended as an alternative to Microsoft's .Net. Sun will also announce a wide range of alliances with a global lineup of wireless carriers and handset makers.
At stake is the potentially huge market for interactive mobile services. Those services include messaging, games and so-called location-based electronic commerce. Sun's Java software has been adopted by the United States' five major wireless carriers, three leading European wireless carriers and the three leaders in Japan. 
"If you compare the phones with Java installed to Microsoft's Smart Phone software, there's a tremendous disparity," said Alan Reiter, publisher of Wireless Internet and Mobile Computing, in Chevy Chase, Md.
Industry executives and analysts say Microsoft is being hampered by its continued PC-centric view of the world, as well as by persistent fear that the company will try to dominate the software portion of the wireless communications industry.
"Microsoft still has the philosophy that you take the PC desktop and put it in the wireless handset," said Andrew Seybold, publisher of Andrew Seybold's Outlook 4Mobility newsletter. "Their bigger problem is that the wireless industry hates Microsoft."
Last week, Microsoft quietly replaced the executive in charge of its wireless initiative, Ben Waldman, who has taken personal leave. He was succeeded by Kevin Shields, a longtime executive in the company's hand-held computing division. 
Microsoft has recently made pacts with Deutsche Telekom and its United States wireless subsidiary, Voicestream, to support Microsoft's .Net initiative. But industry analysts said Microsoft was still lagging badly in the wireless world. There are currently more than 12 million Java-based phones in the Japanese market, and European handset makers like Nokia, Seimens and Ericsson plan to ship tens of millions of Java phones this year.
In the United States, analysts have been predicting that wireless data services will be slow in coming because the nation's cellular carriers have drastically limited their network-technology spending in the sluggish economy.
But Sun's chairman and chief executive, Scott G. McNealy, predicts that wireless data services will arrive more quickly than the skeptics say they will. "People are communicating more and traveling less," he said.
Moreover, telecommunications companies are looking to new wireless data services, which include messaging and games, as a lucrative way out of the increasingly competitive voice market.
Carriers see advanced services as "the silver bullet to ward off collapsing fees" from wireless voice communications, said David Readerman, a partner at Thomas Weisel Partners, a San Francisco investment firm.
Sun's Java-based wireless initiative is expected to receive endorsements on Monday from Sprint Communications, Research in Motion, Nextel, Motorola, Nokia, Ericsson and Vodaphone, among others. 
Research in Motion is the Canadian maker of the popular Blackberry hand-held electronic mail communication system used by 13,000 corporations. The company, which recently announced a new version of its device that includes a cellular telephone, plans at JavaOne to introduce a software development kit that will make it possible for corporations and cellular carriers to produce custom software applications to run on the Blackberry.
"We think the game changer is how these wireless devices will become platforms for software developers," said Jim Balsillie, chairman and co-chief executive of Research in Motion of Waterloo, Ontario.
Examples of cellular software applications for wireless data services include programs being developed by companies like the Mapinfo Corporation, a Troy, N.Y., developer of location-based software, which is intended to let cellular phone users select restaurants, hotels or other businesses and then immediately see maps of their locations on their phone displays.
At JavaOne, Sun plans to announce a set of standards for delivering Web services that have been tailored to the version of Java that is designed to run on cellular phones, palmtop organizers, set-top boxes and cars.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cheryln Chin, a Sun vice president, with some cellphones that use Java software. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); Sun Microsystems' chief, Scott G. McNealy, left, and leaders of his Java software team, Richard Green, second from left, Jonathan Schwartz and Patricia C. Sueltz. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (94%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); SMARTPHONES (74%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (71%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (71%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; SIC7378 COMPUTER MAINTENANCE & REPAIR; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: JONATHAN I SCHWARTZ (58%) MARKOFF, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



663 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Broadview-Warburg Deal May Be Near 

BYLINE:  ByPATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
Broadview International, an investment bank that specializes in technology company mergers, is in serious discussions to sell itself to UBS Warburg, several Wall Street executives said over the weekend.
 Warburg, the investment banking arm of the Swiss bank UBS, could announce a deal to buy Broadview, a private partnership, as soon as this week. But an agreement is not certain because the firms were still negotiating some terms of the sale over the weekend, these people said, and the talks could fall apart. 
 Exact terms of the transaction could not be determined. People close to the firms said the price could be as low as $100 million, a fraction of what Broadview could have sold for just two years ago, an example of how far the technology sector has fallen.
"We get approached all the time by other firms, which does lead to speculation," said Brian Hickey, a Broadview spokesman. "It is our firm policy not to comment on rumors and speculation." 
A spokesman for UBS, which also owns the PaineWebber brokerage firm, declined to comment.
While most big firms on Wall Street have been cutting back, UBS has been spending money to hire veteran investment bankers. Buying Broadview could enhance Warburg's stature in the technology sector in time for a rebound in deal-making activity there.
Broadview, which is based in Fort Lee, N.J., and has offices in Silicon Valley, Boston and London, grew rapidly during the technology boom of the late 1990's as it advised technology companies on dozens of acquisitions, most paid for with inflated stock. After giant banks gobbled up several tech-focused investment banks including Hambrecht & Quist, Broadview became the biggest independent firm of its kind. Among its coups was the sale of the chip maker Burr-Brown to Texas Instruments for more than $7.6 billion in June 2000.
But Broadview has been struggling through a deal drought since the technology stock bubble two years ago. The firm eliminated about 150 jobs last year and now has a staff of about 200 people. Some of its senior executives, including Victor Basta, the executive chairman of its international business, have left the firm in the last few months. Late last year, Broadview hired another mergers specialist, Lazard, to help find a buyer.
UBS is not the first big bank to consider buying Broadview. The Goldman Sachs Group discussed an acquisition of Broadview last year but backed off, people close to the firms said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MERGERS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%) BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: UBS AG (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (58%); HAMBRECHT & QUIST CALIFORNIA (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BROADVIEW INTERNATIONAL; UBS WARBURG 

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (85%); UBS (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (84%); TXN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%)

PERSON: MCGEEHAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



664 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: In El Salvador, Bush Talks of Trade and Criticizes Democrats 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR, March 24 

 BODY:
President Bush said today that he would push hard for a trade accord between the United States and Central America, but he also took time to criticize the Democrats back home for calling his four-day trip to Latin America an excuse to pander for Latino votes.
 "Sometimes in Washington, D.C., people cannot get rid of old habits," Mr. Bush said at a 30-minute news conference with President Francisco Flores. "Which is petty politics, Mr. President. But that's just what happens." 
 On Saturday, Antonio Villaraigosa, the former speaker of the California State Assembly who ran for mayor of Los Angeles last year, said in a nationwide American radio address that the president's trip to Mexico, Peru and El Salvador was "part of an orchestrated strategy to curry favor with Latino voters in the United States."
Mr. Villaraigosa added that "our community knows the difference between rhetoric and results" and that it also knew the difference between "pandering and producing."
Mr. Villaraigosa was chosen to respond to the president's weekly radio address, broadcast in the United States on Saturday, in which Mr. Bush extolled his activities on a trip that has promoted trade, immigration policies, American foreign aid and the United States commitment to fight drug trafficking in the Andes.
Trade was the primary item on the agenda during Mr. Bush's six-hour stop in San Salvador, the last of his trip, where he met for half an hour with President Flores, held the news conference, then had a 90-minute lunch with Mr. Flores and the leaders of Nicaragua, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Honduras, Belize and Panama.
Mr. Bush called El Salvador, which a decade ago was mired in a violent civil war, "one of the really great stories of economic and political transformation of our time." He praised Mr. Flores, 42, as a democratic reformer and said that "it's an honor to call him friend."
Mr. Flores responded, "I have had some honors in my life, but never had I had such a high honor as President Bush calling me his friend."
Despite the extravagant expressions of warmth between the two leaders, the trade agreement is far from becoming reality. Mr. Bush first proposed it in Washington in January at speech at the headquarters of the Organization of American States that was intended to show that he had not turned away from Latin America despite his commitment to fighting terrorism.
Since then his administration has conceded that it has much work to do on pushing other proposed trade agreements through Congress before turning its attention to any deal with Central America.
"I just think that as we move forward with our other trade agreements, we have to realize that there are some on Capitol Hill that are not favorably disposed toward these kinds of agreements," Secretary of State Colin L. Powell told reporters on Air Force One this morning. "But these kinds of agreements have been shown over the years to benefit the countries who enter into the agreements with us."
As far away as any trade deal is, Central American leaders nonetheless eagerly welcomed Mr. Bush's arrival and said it signaled Washington's acknowledgment that the region had made a successful transition to peacetime democracy. 
At the news conference, Mr. Bush called El Salvador, which has emerged from the 1980's conflicts better off financially and politically than Nicaragua or Guatemala, "one of the really bright lights in Latin America."
But many Latin American analysts said that Mr. Bush's stopover here amounted to little more than a photo opportunity, and that his administration had not provided enough money or follow-through to make sure that democracy took root.
"One of the real dangers of trumpeting democracy, as we have around all of Central America, and then not backing it up with an effective aid program is that we are building a cynicism about democracy that could turn ugly," said Robert White, a former United States ambassador to El Salvador.
After the news conference, Mr. Bush posed for a picture with Prime Minister Said Musa of Belize, President Ricardo Maduro of Honduras, President Mireya Moscoso of Panama, President Enrique Bolanos of Nicaragua, President Miguel Angel Rodriguez of Costa Rica and President Alfonso Portillo of Guatemala as well as President Flores.
In his briefing to reporters on Air Force One, Secretary Powell also said that in Peru, Mr. Bush had raised the issue of Lori Berenson, the American serving a 20-year sentence in a Peruvian jail for helping rebels from the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement plan a 1995 attempt to capture the country's Congress. Ms. Berenson, who was tried twice, has maintained her innocence.
Mr. Powell said that Mr. Bush had brought up the issue directly with President Alejandro Toledo of Peru on Saturday, but that Mr. Bush had not made an appeal for a pardon of Ms. Berenson. The president is waiting, Mr. Powell said, for a review of the case by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights.
"We took note of the fact that the second trial, by our standards, followed the kind of due process we'd like to see," Mr. Powell said. "And the appellate process within Peru is finished."
When the commission completes its review, Mr. Powell said, "perhaps that may offer an opportunity for President Toledo to examine the whole case and take another look at what might be possible." At that point, Mr. Powell added, "we'll see what we might want to say." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (84%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); MAYORS (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); TERRORISM (50%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FLORES, FRANCISCO (PRES); VILLARAIGOSA, ANTONIO 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ANDES (56%) UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); EL SALVADOR (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); BELIZE (79%); HONDURAS (79%); PERU (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); PANAMA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); MEXICO (79%); COSTA RICA (79%) EL SALVADOR; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



665 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: White House Letter; 
Diplomatic Two-Steps In Latin America Trip

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR, March 24 

 BODY:
Was President Bush's four-day trip to Mexico, Peru and El Salvador one he never wanted to make? The White House says no, Mr. Bush had a fine time meeting with more than a dozen Latin American heads of state, speaking his own brand of Spanglish ("Mexico es a grand amigo de los Estados Unidos and we're equal partners") and promoting trade in Lima's baroque Presidential Palace after a 21-gun salute.
 But consider the facts, which were not that pretty even before the Democrats accused Mr. Bush of taking the trip merely to troll for Latino votes. A car bomb exploded in Lima, killing nine, just 72 hours ahead of the president's arrival. 
 From the beginning, Mr. Bush committed to attending the last day of a United Nations conference on global aid to the poor in Monterrey, Mexico -- the initial reason for his trip -- only after his friend, President Vicente Fox of Mexico, called and asked. Only the two leaders know for sure how much pressure Mr. Fox put on Mr. Bush, but no one disputes that Mr. Bush's attendance was crucial to Mr. Fox's stature as president and host of the conference and that Mr. Bush owed something to his fellow big-hat rancher, whom he had neglected after the Sept. 11 attacks.
"He was my friend prior to September the 11th, he was my friend after September the 11th, he'll be my friend for a long period of time," Mr. Bush said in a typical I-love-Vicente remark before embarking on the trip.
But Mr. Bush's attendance at the conference immediately created another problem, development experts say. The United States had not increased its $10 billion foreign aid budget in a decade, a source of enormous criticism from nations rich and poor. As the clamor grew, the White House assembled a foreign aid package, a $5 billion increase over three years, which Mr. Bush announced in Washington with Bono, the attention-getting Irish rock star and advocate for the poor, at his side.
The nations already gathering in Monterrey, however, were underwhelmed, and pronounced the offer cheap. Soon enough, Mr. Bush pulled another $5 billion out of his Stetson, as the White House made the bizarre announcement that it had gotten the original math wrong.
"We didn't want to go out there with essentially false or phony numbers," said Condoleezza Rice, the president's national security adviser. Skeptics said the White House was just adding on billions to make sure that the president was a hit in Monterrey.
He was at the conference, but seemed irritable at a news briefing with Mr. Fox at the government palace, where Mr. Bush blamed the Senate for holding up an immigration bill he had hoped to present to the Mexican president. Mexican reporters demanded to know if Fidel Castro of Cuba had stalked out of the conference early because of pressure from the United States.
"I don't know what you're talking about, about pressuring anybody," Mr. Bush replied testily. When another Mexican reporter persisted, asking, "Who is lying, Mr. President Bush?" Mr. Bush responded, "I thought I just answered that question. Maybe I missed it -- or you did."
In Lima, which had been turned into a military encampment by the car bomb, Mr. Bush blamed the Senate once again, this time for holding up an Andean trade agreement that he had hoped to deliver to President Alejandro Toledo. But Mr. Bush announced that the Peace Corps would return to Peru after an absence of nearly three decades.
A Peruvian reporter was not impressed. "President Bush, you are in a region now that's been devastated by terrorism and subversion and drug trafficking for over three decades," he said. "You're offering us the Peace Corps."
Mr. Bush replied, "I think I said more than just the Peace Corps, if I'm not mistaken, in my opening comments." Then he threatened, "I'll repeat if you'd like me to, go through the litany of things I just said."
In San Salvador today, Mr. Bush once again had nothing specific to deliver to President Francisco Flores and six other Central American leaders, at least beyond a display of support for the region. A Central American trade bill that Mr. Bush proposed in January is still that, a proposal, with no one in Congress to blame. At a news conference, American reporters resorted to asking Mr. Bush whether he would sign the campaign finance reform bill passed last week by the Senate reluctantly or whole-heartedly.
Mr. Bush, displaying some evidence that it had been a long four days, replied that he would not hesitate, and said, "I have a kind of firm, semifirm signature as it moves across the page." He added that "it will probably take about -- you know, about three seconds to get to the W, I may hesitate on the period, and then rip through the Bush."
But there were some high moments for Mr. Bush. "This morning in our hotel room when we woke up, I loved looking out the windows and seeing the mountains," Laura Bush told a group of Mexican children in Monterrey, describing the couple's view of the Sierra Madres. 
In the end, Mrs. Bush probably said it best. "A trip like this for me is very fun and relaxing," she told the children. "The president has to work." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); CELEBRITIES (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); TRENDS (68%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); IMMIGRATION (67%); BUDGETS (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; PERU-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EL SALVADOR-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%); BONO (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUMILLER, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (96%); PERU (94%); EL SALVADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%) MEXICO; PERU; EL SALVADOR; MONTERREY (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002 



666 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: In Awful Year for Industry, 2 Airlines Make Strides 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, March 25 

 BODY:
In a year when the aviation industry suffered $15 billion in losses worldwide and two venerable European flag carriers went bankrupt, Turkish Airlines defied the odds by earning a slim profit, the company reported today.
 Though it is state-controlled, Turkish Airlines did without the government support that kept some airlines in other countries afloat. Its efforts to make itself more responsive to the market were reflected in its $6.7 million profit for 2001, compared with a loss of $103 million in 2000. 
 "This move into the black is sustainable because we have restructured ourselves and because the government has liberated us from intervention," Cem M. Kozlu, the chairman, said in an interview. 
Some of the measures it took were familiar. Unprofitable flights were reduced, excess aircraft sold, orders for new planes canceled or delayed. In-flight meals were pared , and the airline stopped giving passengers free newspapers on domestic flights.
Other steps were innovative. Labor unions accepted a 10 percent wage cut for three months in exchange for a freeze on layoffs. Such agreements are rare both in the aviation industry and among Turkey's state-owned enterprises, where political sensibilities usually outweigh market considerations. 
Deep discounts on tickets for members of Parliament and the news media were eliminated in January and service to unprofitable airports was discontinued, two riskier steps that are still drawing protests but were deemed essential to long-term profitability.
To be sure, the picture is not completely rosy. Only 10.4 million passengers used it last year, down from 12 million in 2000. When business starts to grow again, new capital will be needed to expand the fleet, which was trimmed to 68 aircraft last year from 74 in 2000. Indeed, gains from the sale of six Airbus aircraft to Iranian Airlines helped Turkish make a profit.
"The company needs to increase the operating profitability and promote domestic flights heavily until international flights resume to a certain point," said Oner Ayan, head of the Turkey desk at Raymond James & Associates in New York.
Still, in a year when Sabena and Swissair went bankrupt and United Airlines lost a record $2.1 billion, Turkish Airlines turned a profit for the first time since 1998.
In a sense, the Turks had a head start on the industry when it came to dealing with the havoc created by the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terror attacks. A plunge by the Turkish currency in February 2001 created an economic crisis that knocked domestic passenger loads down almost one-third, followed by a 10 percent drop in international traffic.
The airline responded by winning new flexibility from the government, which owns 98.2 percent of its stock. Most significantly, Parliament passed legislation allowing it to set its own fares for the first time. In the past, the government often blocked fare increases to curry public favor, executives said.
Simple steps also led to substantial savings. Eliminating boxes for meals on domestic flights saved $3 million; adjusting crew schedules to reduce overnight stays saved $1 million.
Many steps were under way when the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington caused deep cutbacks in air travel worldwide. Turkey was hit hard because of its proximity to the Middle East. 
"After Sept. 11, we realized the measures we had taken were not enough, so we started a further cost-saving program," said Sertac Haybat, executive vice president for finance. 
In the fourth quarter, the airline eliminated about 1,500 jobs, half through voluntary and forced retirements, cutting the staff to 11,000. The deal with the union to freeze layoffs and cut pay temporarily came in November.
One of the toughest steps was dropping money-losing routes within the country, where it has a virtual monopoly. With no service, five airports closed last year and a sixth closed this month.
Some sizable cities were suddenly isolated, and angry. For Sivas, a city of 250,000 in central Turkey, the nearest airport is now two hours away by car, and Istanbul, the commercial capital, is a day's drive.
"The closure is unfortunate for Sivas, because we want to develop our business community," said Osman Yildirim, head of the city's chamber of commerce. "We understand the global crisis that followed Sept. 11, but our airport had been functioning since 1957."
Airline executives said passenger levels were climbing again, particularly on international routes. Mr. Kozlu said the airline's management sees promise in Istanbul's location as a hub for Asia and the Middle East, in the prospects for improved tourism in Turkey and in a two-year-old code-sharing alliance with American Airlines that has increased access to the United States market.
Most important, he said, is the new freedom from government intervention. "We can plan our future ourselves," Mr. Kozlu said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Passengers buy tickets for domestic flights on Turkish Airlines at Ataturk International Airport in Istanbul. Through efficiency measures, the carrier made a profit, countering the trend at most other airlines. (Staton R. Winter/Getty Images, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AIR FARES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); LABOR UNIONS (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (58%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (52%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: TURKISH AIRLINES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (91%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) TURKEY (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



667 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: New Standards Mean Korean Air Is ComingOff Many 'Shun' Lists 

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, March 25 

 BODY:
When Korean Air brought in David Greenberg, a retired Delta Air Lines vice president, to run its operations two years ago, he was given a tall order: rescuing the airline from international disgrace.
 Among major international carriers, Korean Air -- 13th largest in the world -- had become a pariah after a string of disasters that began in 1983 when Flight 007 strayed over Russian territory and was shot down with 269 people aboard. 
 One accident after another seemed to strike the airline after that. By late 1999, when two of its cargo jets crashed within weeks of each other at Shanghai and at Stansted Airport near London, a total of 750 people had been killed in accidents. The airline was also plagued with smaller mishaps on domestic flights that cost no lives but heightened worries about the company and its future. 
Against this background, Mr. Greenberg started with the airline's flight crews. He introduced rigorous new training and testing standards, as well as some "cockpit culture" changes for Korean Air's 1,700 pilots. On the ground, he began basing promotions and transfers in the company's ranks on merit rather than connections and friendships.
These efforts have been paying off with a steady rehabilitation of the airline's reputation, capped last month when Delta and Air France, after separately scrutinizing Korean Air's safety standards, approved the resumption of its membership in their code-sharing alliance, known as SkyTeam. Korean Air's access to the alliance, whose member airlines offer one another's flights to their passengers, had been suspended after the Shanghai and Stansted crashes.
This month, Delta and Korean Air jointly applied for an antitrust exemption in the United States that will permit them to coordinate marketing, pricing and promotions as well; approval is expected.
The airline has also won the lifting of a ban by the United States Department of Defense on its employees' flying on Korean Air planes. And last fall, the Federal Aviation Administration restored its rating of South Korean air safety to the top classification. For the four months the country was rated in a lower category, neither Korean Air nor its smaller rival, Asiana, could expand service to the United States or share codes with American carriers.
"It's kind of a turnaround story," said Richard Samuelson, chief of UBS Warburg Securities' Seoul office. "We have lifted our estimate for Korean Air," he said, citing improvements in its safety record and the vote of confidence from the code-sharing partners. 
Along with safety, Korean Air's finances have improved. After reporting losses of $450 million in 2001 and $352 million in 2000, the airline forecasts a $77 million profit this year. Traffic is returning to normal on trans-Pacific routes after slumping in the wake of the Sept. 11 terror attacks in the United States, Korean Air officials say. Its flights to Japan, Hong Kong and Southeast Asia are more packed than ever. The airline has a new hub airport at Inchon, near Seoul, and has high hopes for the World Cup soccer tournament, which will be jointly held in South Korea and Japan, beginning in May.
Investors have taken note, and the company's stock has more than doubled so far this year, outperforming even Korea's rising stock price index by a healthy margin. Lee Chan Ho, general manager for investor relations for the airline, attributed the rise to "our operating performance," and said the airline was focused for now on profitability, not expansion.
Mr. Greenberg, 60, who was hired in January 2000 as Korean Air's executive vice president for operations, said he was looking forward to turning the reins back to a Korean executive next year and returning to retirement. The remainder of his tenure, he said, will largely be spent training a successor -- not yet named -- and inveighing against complacency and the temptation to cut corners if the economy slumps again.
Even with all the improvements, the airline remains under the overall control of the Hanjin Group, a conglomerate dominated by a powerful, close-knit family, as many large Korean companies are. And Hanjin has drawn criticism in the past for placing profits above safety, notably after the Shanghai crash, which the country's president, Kim Dae Jung, publicly attributed to mismanagement by the owners. An executive shake-up after that crash led to Mr. Greenberg's hiring.
"What's necessary is to keep the focus, keep the concentration, whether times are good or bad," Mr. Greenberg said. "It takes years to build recognition, and one slip can destroy that. There's this tendency to become complacent, to say, 'We've perfected this thing, let's coast.' "
According to an investigation by a team of Delta executives in 1999, many of Korean Air's woes were rooted in the airline's rapid expansion in the 1980's, when pressure to hire pilots quickly brought in many with minimal qualifications.
Making matters worse, most of its pilots were Korean Air Force veterans with a strong authoritarian streak. Senior pilots tended to ignore warnings or advice from copilots, especially those who had been their subordinates in the air force, and junior pilots were discouraged from speaking up.
The harm done by this dynamic was made clear in a 1997 crash in Guam that killed 228 people. An inquiry found that the co-pilot had failed to warn the pilot that the plane was descending onto a ridge as it approached the airport. 
The airline's partners say it is putting such problems behind it. "Korean Air has made a major commitment to creating a culture of operational excellence," said Paul Matsen, Delta's senior vice president for alliances. "They have gone through a significant process."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lee Jong Hee, center, the executive vice president of Korean Air, with Paul Matsen, left, of Delta Air Lines and Patrick Bianquis of Air France when the three airlines signed code-sharing agreements last month. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (76%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (71%); APPROVALS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (54%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (51%)

ORGANIZATION: KOREA AIR; DELTA AIR LINES INC (DAL); AIR FRANCE 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); AF (PAR) (54%); AF (AMS) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: GREENBERG, DAVID (CO EXEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



668 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: What Yemen Needs 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Nicholas D. Kristof is right that the Bush administration's decision to train Yemen's military to fight Al Qaeda is well intentioned but problematic (column, March 19). I worked in Yemen promoting democracy for an American organization and visited some of the villages mentioned. 
The people have little hope, a product of poverty and powerlessness.
 Mr. Kristof says many people have more loyalty to local leaders than to the central government. That is because local leaders are often the only ones providing basic necessities. 
 Many of these governments need greater legitimacy before the war on terror can be won. That legitimacy cannot be won through more military might. It will require economic growth and democracy. 

DAVID NASSAR
Arlington, Va., March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); WAR ON TERROR (88%); HIJACKING (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YEMEN; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: NASSAR, DAVID; KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) YEMEN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%) YEMEN; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



669 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Europe Is Ready to Impose Broad Limits onSteel Imports 

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, March 25 

 BODY:
Moving to head off a feared deluge of steel diverted from the United States, the European Union is preparing to impose tight limits on imported steel products, officials of the union said today.
 "This is not a tit-for-tat response to the United States import restrictions," Pascal Lamy, the union's top trade official, said in an interview, referring to new American tariffs of up to 30 percent on certain steel imports. 
 Rather, Mr. Lamy said, the danger for the union was that steel excluded from the United States would swamp the European market and drive down prices. Last year the union imported 26.5 million tons of steel, a bit less than the United States; officials here estimate that another 15 million tons may come this year, worth $4 billion at current prices, because of the American tariffs. 
"Safeguard measures are precisely designed to respond to trade diversion," Mr. Lamy said. For that reason, the Bush administration's tariffs were unwarranted, he said, because "there is no trade diversion to the U.S."
By the union's reckoning, American steel imports have fallen by a third since 1998, while European steel imports have grown. World Trade Organization rules allow safeguard measures only when there is evidence of a surge in imports.
 In Washington, Richard Mills, a spokesman for the United States trade representative, called the union's move toward applying safeguard measures "odd," given that it had criticized the American tariffs so loudly. The United States move followed nine months of study, Mr. Mills said in a statement, but the union acted "without an investigation or even time for ships to have reached European docks." He said a challenge to the European measures before the World Trade Organization would be considered. 
The European Commission, the union's executive body, is expected to discuss the draft measures at its weekly meeting on Wednesday and approve them to apply for six months, beginning April 3. Among the measures are regulations known as tariff quotas, covering 15 steel products that comprise 40 percent of all steel imports, a European Union official said; the American tariffs apply to the same categories and six others.
Imports of the 15 products, including items like stainless steel wire and nonalloy hot-rolled narrow strip steel, would continue to enter the union uninhibited by the new tariffs until they reach current import levels. Once that quota is exceeded, tariffs of 14.9 percent to 26 percent would take hold. 
United States steel makers will not be directly affected because they ship hardly any steel to the European Union, the official said. Developing countries that account for less than 3 percent of the union's imports in any category will be exempted, he said, and because of a separate tariff arrangement, the safeguards do not apply to steel from Russia, Ukraine or Kazakhstan.
Countries that apparently would be affected by the measures include China in three product categories, and India, Brazil and Egypt in two categories each, the official said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TRENDS (71%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%) STEEL AND IRON; UNITED STATES; EUROPE; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



670 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Notes From St. Louis; 
Loving the Cardinals as They Are

BYLINE:  By Ray Hartmann; Ray Hartmann is founder and columnist of The Riverfront Times.

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
This is the ultimate baseball town. When the Cardinals open their 127th season next week, the beloved Busch Stadium will be awash in a standing-room-only sea of red and white, a Norman Rockwell portrait of a sport now noted more for slicing the revenue pie than for apple pie. The athletes on the field may be multimillionaires, but the stands in St. Louis will be filled with extras from "Field of Dreams."
 There'll be pep rallies attended by thousands long before a soul has ambled into the luxury suites. Cardinals fans are in general so giddy one can almost forget that the national pastime in recent seasons has been so much about team contraction, salary caps and lockouts. From generation to generation -- from Dizzy Dean to Stan Musial to Lou Brock to Ozzie Smith to Mark McGwire -- loyalty to the team has been passed down like a family heirloom. 
 It's proven at the gate: The Cardinals drew more than 3.1 million customers last season, the fourth time in a row they surpassed the 3 million mark. The team that ranked 20th in terms of market size ranked sixth in major league attendance.
When the current ownership group bought the Cardinals in 1995 from Anheuser-Busch, Fred Hanser, a partner, said: "I think you could easily say that each member of this group could find a better economic investment than the St. Louis Cardinals. But they are fans and they are interested in owning one of the great franchises in history."
Now, however, the owners are interested in something more than a great franchise. They want the public to help them build a new $346 million stadium -- complete with more lucrative luxury boxes -- at a taxpayer tab of more than $13 million annually over the next 30 years. The Cardinals say they would put in $118 million for the stadium and land they value at $20 million.
The Missouri Legislature now has to approve the state portion of the public subsidy to seal the deal before it adjourns in May. Rural legislators are particularly skeptical of this proposal. But the Cardinals' owners have the emotional grip on this slice of Americana, having let it be known that they might move the team to the suburbs or across the Mississippi to Illinois.
The loyal public is aghast. A recent survey by KSDK-TV found that 67 percent of St. Louisans opposed public financing of a stadium. A local citizens' group is gathering signatures to stop the project via public referendum.
State Representative Joan Bray, whose legislative district adjoins the city, says: "In 10 years, I've never seen an idea go so far with so little public backing. It's clear the people don't want this." She adds that the state is facing its worst fiscal crisis in years and is making deep cuts in an array of social services that were already underfunded.
But the Cardinals have plenty of political power. The principal owner, William DeWitt Jr., helped President Bush make his fortune with the Texas Rangers -- thanks largely to a publicly funded stadium -- and remains the president's close friend and a top fund-raiser. The team's newest partner, at just under 4 percent ownership, is Pulitzer Inc., owner of The Post-Dispatch, the city's only major daily newspaper. Once a critic of public stadium funding, The Post now extols its partners' deal on the editorial page. The favorable press coverage is just one part of a huge lobbying effort that has already won the support of the governor, the mayor, the county executive, the city Board of Aldermen and dozens of state legislators. Yet many of the Cardinals' fans are booing loudly all the while.
And so the only option for the team's owners is to take the political route: they furiously oppose any notion of submitting the matter to voters. At the same time, the team refuses to discuss the revenue projections upon which it bases its claims that new taxes generated from the stadium and a proposed downtown development called Ballpark Village would more than cover the public's expense. This claim is difficult to fathom, says Mark Rosentraub, an expert on the economics of sports at Cleveland State University. "The typical models that you use for stadiums project very large increases in attendance," Mr. Rosentraub says. "That's not possible in St. Louis because you already have very high attendance, with a developed fan base that spends considerably at the ballpark."
Besides, he argues, the Cardinals owners -- who collectively have $4 billion in assets, according to The St. Louis Business Journal -- could very easily finance a new stadium privately, as the San Francisco Giants did with Pacific Bell Park, which opened in 2000.
To the chagrin of baseball owners seeking subsidies, the Giants were one of the five most successful teams in baseball in their first two years at their new stadium, despite having to bear the debt service on the stadium.
And in those two years, the Giants' record of 187-137 has been eclipsed by only one team in the National League. That would be the Cardinals, at 188-136, playing in the ancient ruins of 36-year-old Busch Stadium. It's no wonder St. Louis fans, munching their peanuts and crackerjacks, like things the way they are. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (85%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); APPROVALS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (66%); MARKET SIZE (66%); REFERENDUMS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (54%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (94%) MISSOURI, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



671 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Decline on Concerns About Higher Interest Rates

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, led by computer-related and financial shares, on concern that rising borrowing costs would crimp corporate profit growth.
 General Electric, Microsoft and Citigroup dragged the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a three-week low. 
 The S.& P. 500 index lost 16.83 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,131.87, as all 10 of its industry groups declined. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 146 points, or 1.4 percent, to 10,281.67, led by I.B.M. and Philip Morris. The Nasdaq composite index, more than half technology shares, fell 38.9 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,812.49. 
Stocks have dropped the past week as some investors bet "the economy is moving too fast and the Fed might have to raise interest rates," said Carl Domino, a money manager at Northern Trust Value Investors.
Last week, the Federal Reserve signaled that it would lean toward increasing interest rates, raising concern that stocks' recent gains might have run their course. The S.& P. 500 index, up 18 percent the last six months, trades at about 22 times forecast earnings -- compared with 19 in September.
More than two stocks fell for every one that rose on the New York Stock Exchange, while three declined for every two that advanced on the Nasdaq. About one billion shares traded on the Big Board, the fewest since Dec. 31.
Financial shares accounted for one-fifth of the S.& P. 500's decline.
"Now everyone knows that the next move on rates is up, and what don't you want to own when rates go up: financials," said Bob Smith, who manages growth stock investments at T. Rowe Price.
General Electric, whose GE Capital unit is the largest nonbank finance company, lost 83 cents, to $37.04; American International dropped $1.55, to $70.69; and Citigroup, the largest financial services company, declined $1.19, to $48.65.
Higher interest rates will drive up their cost of capital, reduce their business and trim the value of their bondholdings.
Information technology shares accounted for a quarter of the S.& P. 500's loss. Higher rates reduce the current value of companies' profits, and computer-related companies are particularly vulnerable. The Nasdaq trades at 108 times forecast earnings.
Higher borrowing costs will also reduce technology companies' customers ability to buy new equipment.
Microsoft, the largest software maker, dropped $1.22, to $59.23; Intel, the biggest semiconductor maker, lost 59 cents, to $30; and I.B.M., the largest computer maker, fell $2.04, to $103.56.
Philip Morris fell $1.53, to $51.96, paring its gain for the year to 13 percent. The company, the largest cigarette maker, must pay more than $150 million to relatives of a woman who died of cancer, an Oregon state court jury found. --------------------

Treasury Prices Mixed
(By Reuters)
Long-dated Treasuries were lifted late yesterday as stocks extended a slide, but a strong housing report and fears that the Federal Reserve might soon raise interest rates kept shorter maturities in check.
By late in the day, the 10-year note fell 2/32, to a price of 96. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.40 percent from 5.39 percent on Friday.
The 30-year bond gained, however, rising 1/32, to a price of 94 1/32. Its yield fell to 5.80 percent from 5.81 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.54099.933High Rate1.8202.110Investment Rate1.8542.163Low Rate1.78%1.81%Median Rate1.80%2.08%Total applied $37for,415,859$38,783,844$17Accepted,150,744$16,737,094$1Noncompetitive,414,416$1,212,479

Both issues are dated March 28. The three-month bills mature on June 27, and the six-month bills on Sept. 26.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year and latest week trading ranges. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (63%); DEATHS (60%); VERDICTS (60%); JURY TRIALS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (58%); INTEL CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



672 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Romania and Bulgaria Edge Nearer to NATO Membership 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: BUCHAREST, Romania, March 25 

 BODY:
A year ago, the idea that Romania and Bulgaria might join NATO this autumn in the next round of enlargement seemed laughable, and many thought that the aspirations of the Baltic nations for NATO membership might be held hostage again to relations with Moscow.
 But in the aftermath of Sept. 11 and with the war on terrorism, the southern flank of NATO suddenly seems more important, and the domestic blemishes of candidate countries like Romania less important. 
 President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has apparently decided not to make too big a fuss over Baltic memberships in return for more influence with NATO, a better relationship with the United States and a freer hand in Chechnya, Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. 
The prime ministers of 10 NATO candidate countries are meeting here in another joint effort to press their case. They are receiving warm messages of general support from President Bush and from Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage, who came here to demonstrate the American commitment to enlargement.
The Bush administration, concentrating on the larger war in Afghanistan and beyond, sees the chance to make the NATO summit meeting in Prague in November a celebration of European unity and of completing the current plans for NATO enlargement, by taking in up to seven countries -- Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovenia, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria.
Three other countries represented here -- Albania, Macedonia and Croatia -- are considered to have little chance of being offered NATO membership in this round.
Bush officials stress that no final decision on American preferences is likely until late September because of the election planned for Slovakia, where Vladimir Meciar, a strong nationalist, could return to power, once again undermining its chances of joining NATO.
Mr. Armitage, in an interview here today, praised Romania's and Bulgaria's quick efforts to help the United States and NATO after Sept. 11. He noted that Bulgaria has allowed American tanker planes and some 200 American soldiers to use an air base at Burgas while Romania sent troops to take part in the Afghan peacekeeping force in Kabul. 
"Sept. 11 had a riveting effect on NATO and applicant countries," Mr. Armitage said. "A lot stepped up to the plate."
The Bulgarian foreign minister, Solomon Passy, noted that his government had never before allowed a foreign country to use its air bases, "not even the Soviet Union," and that the Bulgarian Parliament had declared itself, after Sept. 11, a "de facto ally of NATO." 
The Romanian foreign minister, Mircea Geoana, said his country and Bulgaria were now seen as increasingly important to stabilize the Balkans, to fill the hole in NATO between Hungary and Turkey (itself more important after Sept. 11), to be in a better position to protect oil pipelines and to serve as a kind of bridge to Central Asian states like Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan.
"It is an important challenge to the West to assist in the creation of moderate Muslim nations in Central Asia," Mr. Geoana said. "We also can help stabilize this arch of instability in the south for a NATO that is already more global." He, too, stressed Romania's support for American leadership in NATO.
Mr. Armitage said all the candidate countries would be required to continue the "heavy lifting" required to meet NATO standards, even after possible entrance, and to keep reforming and democratizing their governments and economies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage with Prime Minister Adrian Nastase of Romania and Prime Minister Simeon Saxe-Coburg of Bulgaria at a meeting of NATO-candidate nations yesterday. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); TERRORISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (67%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ROMANIA (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SLOVAKIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BALTIC STATES (92%); BULGARIA (90%); CROATIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); GEORGIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); LATVIA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UKRAINE (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



673 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Existing Homes Fell a Bit in February but Remain Strong 

BYLINE:  Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 25 

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes fell slightly in February but still posted the second-best annual rate ever, showing that the housing sector remains on firm footing, a national real estate trade association said today.
 Sales of previously owned homes, the largest category of home sales, declined 2.8 percent last month, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.88 million, the National Association of Realtors said. The January sales rate was revised upward, to a record 6.05 million. 
 February's pace exceeded the forecasts of analysts, who on average had expected an annual sales rate of 5.52 million. Housing activity has remained vigorous throughout the economic slump that started a year ago.
Median house prices were down a statistically insignificant amount last month, to $150,000 from $150,300 in January, but were up 8.2 percent from the month a year earlier. Housing economists say the year-over-year comparison is a more accurate view of the trend.
Regionally, sales climbed 1.4 percent in the Northeast but fell in the three other major regions: down 4.2 percent in the South, the region of the greatest number of sales; down 3.7 percent in the West; and down 0.8 percent in the Midwest.
Inventories were lean, unchanged at 4.2 months' supply of homes available at current sales rates.
Strong fundamentals -- low mortgage rates, tight supply and resilient consumer demand -- are bolstering the housing market, said David Lereah, the chief economist for the association. Mild winter weather also encouraged home buyers, he said.
Rising interest rates, a likely consequence as the economy expands, may damp housing a bit, but analysts said there was little evidence that consumers would lose much appetite for building or buying homes.
"Rates have backed up a little, but again, rates are around 7 percent, which means they're quite low by historic terms, so there's no sign the housing market is coming to an untimely end," said Wayne Ayers, chief economist for FleetBoston. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STATISTICS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (76%); HOME PRICES (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%) REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



674 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE MILITARY; 
U.S. to Send Special Forces To Train Army For Kabul

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 25 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld assigned the American military a complex new mission in Afghanistan today as he announced that Special Forces troops would begin training the new Afghan national army within the next six weeks.
 The first training phase, to last two and a half months, will prepare three ground combat battalions, each with 600 troops, and two border patrol battalions, each with 300 troops, senior military planners said. 
 Up to 150 Army Special Forces troops will be assigned at this initial stage to the Training Task Force, with senior military officials saying they will probably come from units not already in Afghanistan. In addition, allied nations will be invited to contribute troops. 
Thus far, however, the other nations have shown reluctance to help Afghanistan fill a domestic security vacuum that is now the domain of powerful regional warlords and local bandits -- and pockets of tenacious Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters.
The United States and its allies decided not to expand the international peacekeeping force beyond the size needed to patrol the capital, Kabul. And at conferences in Germany and Japan to discuss post-Taliban rule and economic development, no money was pledged to reconstruct an Afghan army, although $4.5 billion was promised for civilian projects.
Pentagon officials said one goal of Special Forces assigned to the mission would be to train Afghans to become their own military trainers eventually. Retired American military officers could also be contracted over time to replace the Special Forces trainers. 
The assessment on how to build an Afghan army was carried out by a 15-member team led by Maj. Gen. Charles C. Campbell, chief of staff for the United States Central Command. He said he had come away from talks with Hamid Karzai, the interim Afghan leader, with a clear sense that he wants a new army "to be a powerful symbol of national unity, stability and pride."
General Campbell said the Afghan forces would also be instructed in the highly nuanced and vastly more complicated issues of civilian control over military affairs, loyalty to a legitimate central government and respect for human rights and the rules of armed combat.
Mr. Rumsfeld indicated that the United States was willing to pay some costs of raising an Afghan force. But he said other nations must share the burden -- a crucial point since the central government must be able to clothe, arm and, most important, pay any soldiers it hopes to wean from warlords who now dominate much of Afghanistan outside Kabul.
"The United States is going to work with some other countries to try to raise some funds for the purpose of training the Afghan army," Mr. Rumsfeld said today. "And needless to say, the pace at which it happens and the size will be somewhat dependent on the success of that effort."
In a telephone interview today, General Campbell expressed optimism over prospects for what he termed "a migration of power from regional-based warlords to the central authorities."
"My sense from a number of conversations is that the notion of a national army is one that resonates with all of the parties, including the regional leaders of armed factions," he said. "At least right now, there is a window of opportunity where you have warlords -- for lack of a better term -- prepared to make available soldiers to participate in establishing a national army."
But that window of opportunity is held open by anticipation of international support -- both in money and weaponry, said an expert in the nation's military history, Ali A. Jalali.
Mr. Jalali, a former colonel in the Afghan Army and co-author of "The Other Side of the Mountain: Mujahedeen Tactics in the Soviet-Afghan War," noted that for two decades rival militaries have created the nation's political structures, rather than a situation in which a national government controls the military.
"So unless you have a politically stabilized government, with the money to pay for an army, the people who are controlling the provinces are not going to dissolve their militias," said Mr. Jalali, who is now with Voice of America.
No cost figures for raising an Afghan national army were released. While experts, including Mr. Jalali, have said that an army of 50,000 to 60,000 troops was appropriate, Pentagon officials said final projections for the size of the force remain the subject of consultations with the Afghan Defense Ministry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY TRAINING (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); AL-QAEDA (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



675 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Peso Down Steeply, Argentines Strengthen Currency Curbs 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, March 25 

 BODY:
With pressure on the already wobbly Argentine peso growing and an agreement with the International Monetary Fund still elusive, the government here today imposed strict new controls on the foreign exchange market. But it was unable to halt a panicky flight to the dollar by savers and investors.
 The measures came in response to heavy and jittery trading on Friday, when the peso fell nearly 18 percent against the dollar. Since President Eduardo Duhalde's decision in January to jettison a decade-old policy of fixing the value of the peso at $1, it has lost more than two-thirds of its value, and briefly traded late today for as little as 25 cents. The peso settled in New York late today at 3.30 to the dollar, or 30.3 cents. 
 Under the new regulations, individuals can purchase no more than $1,000 in American money each day; registered companies are limited to $10,000 a day. Currency exchanges may operate for only three and a half hours a day instead of seven. The government also put new limits on the amounts of dollars that banks and businesses can hold, and restricted the ability of investors and brokerage houses to shift money abroad through stock purchases in the United States.
Thousands of people stood in line for hours outside banks and exchange houses in hopes of dumping pesos for dollars today. The increasing nervousness seems linked to fears that international support for Mr. Duhalde's government, the fifth here since mid-December, is ebbing, and that he is at a loss for how to stabilize the economy.
"I have not taken, and I will not take, any measure to bring down the dollar," Mr. Duhalde said in an interview published in leading Sunday newspapers. "Let the dollar go to nine pesos -- what does that have to do with my government?" he asked in evident frustration.
In the last month, the Argentine central bank has spent about $1.2 billion in a futile effort to prop up the peso's value. By late last week, its reserves were falling by $100 million a day.
A further $50 million a day has been leaking out of the banking system because of court decisions overturning a four-month-old freeze on withdrawals from certain deposit accounts. Last month, Mr. Duhalde decreed a six-month moratorium on court challenges to the freeze, but judges have defied him and ordered the police to arrest bank managers who do not comply with their rulings.
"If the judicial branch continues defining the conditions under which deposits can be taken out of the banking system, the economic plan has no viability," the deputy minister of the economy, Jorge Todesca, said in a radio interview.
Led by Mr. Duhalde, government officials have been predicting for weeks that an accord with the I.M.F., which cut off credit to Argentina in December, is imminent. They hope the fund will inject as much as $20 billion into an economy that has ground to a virtual halt after four years of recession.
But at a United Nations conference in Monterrey, Mexico, last week, the fund's managing director, Horst Kohler, said there was "no quick fix for a very, very complicated situation." His deputy, Anne Krueger, was more discouraging, saying, "We are not going to be able to lend into a situation where they continue having the same difficulties."
Despite a plea for "the understanding and collaboration of the international community," Mr. Duhalde got the cold shoulder from President Bush and other United States officials in Monterrey. Mr. Bush declined to meet with Mr. Duhalde, and said that Argentina is "going to have to make some tough calls." In testimony to Congress last week, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said, "We should not be the endless source of funds." 
The peso's slide is feeding fears of renewed inflation, which reached 5,000 percent a year before the fixed exchange rate was adopted in 1991. Though the Argentine budget estimates price rises of 15 percent in 2002, the secretary for consumer defense, Pablo Challu, now expects inflation "above 42 percent."
Fearing price increases, Argentines crowded supermarkets over the weekend to stock up on staples. Mr. Duhalde said in the newspaper interview that although he knows "something has to be done," he does not intend to impose price ceilings because "there is no way to control them."
As the country grows ever more skittish, there is also talk of trying to link the peso to the dollar again, but this time at a rate of 3 to 1 or 4 to 1. Some economists and politicians have revived discussion of scrapping the peso altogether and using dollars, or of trying again to use multiple exchange rates for different purposes, a policy that was abandoned as unworkable last month.
"I don't want to rule out any possibility or close any doors, because this is a moment of crisis," Mr. Duhalde told reporters in Monterrey. "One of the characteristics of this situation is the need to take measures, and sometimes it is necessary to take a step backward." --------------------

Company Plans to Default
(By Bloomberg News)
 MetroGas S.A., Argentina's biggest gas distributor, said yesterday that it would default on $425 million of bonds, notes and loans because of the drop in the Argentine peso and the government's refusal to allow it to raise its prices to compensate. The company said it had hired J. P. Morgan Chase to help it restructure its debts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Buenos Aires financial district was filled yesterday with jittery people seeking to convert pesos to dollars. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); ARRESTS (50%) ARGENTINA; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: DUHALDE, EDUARDO 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



676 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
The Gentry, Misjudged As Neighbors

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
WE all think we know how gentrification works. Developers and yuppies discover charm in an old neighborhood, and soon the very people who created the neighborhood can't afford it anymore. Janitors and artists are forced out of their homes to make room for lawyers and bankers.
 This process has been routinely denounced in neighborhoods like Harlem and Park Slope in Brooklyn. But when researchers recently looked for evidence of such turnover, the results were surprising. 
 Gentrification does not cause an exodus of the poor and the working class, according to a study in New York and another in Boston. Just the opposite happens: people with relatively little income and education become more likely to stick around. The rate of turnover declines, apparently because people don't like to leave a neighborhood when it's improving.
You may have a hard time believing these results, but you can't dismiss them as propaganda from developers. The New York study was done by Lance Freeman, a professor of planning at Columbia University, and Frank Braconi, an economist and the executive director of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council, a well-respected nonprofit research organization with a centrist position in New York's housing wars.
There are always, of course, some people who move out of gentrifying neighborhoods. But then, some people would move out even if the neighborhood didn't change. To see how gentrification affects turnover, Dr. Freeman and Dr. Braconi analyzed the city's Housing and Vacancy Survey, which is gathered by revisiting the same 15,000 housing units every three years.
According to the survey, only 5 percent of the New Yorkers who moved during the late 1990's reported being forced to move by high rents. That percentage was a little lower than during the real estate doldrums of the early 1990's, when there was less gentrification going on.
For a more precise measure, Dr. Freeman and Dr. Braconi looked at the survey data in seven gentrifying neighborhoods: the Lower East Side, Chelsea, Harlem and Morningside Heights in Manhattan, and Williamsburg, Fort Greene and Park Slope in Brooklyn. In those neighborhoods, the poor and working-class tenants -- those who had low incomes or who lacked a college degree -- were about 20 percent less likely to move during the 1990's than were socioeconomically similar tenants in the rest of the city.
"You've got two competing forces in a gentrifying neighborhood," Dr. Braconi said. "The prices are going up, which gives low-income people an incentive to leave. But the neighborhood's getting nicer, so people have more incentive to stay. There's been an assumption by community activists that the incentive to leave is stronger, but that turns out to be wrong. You don't displace the poor. You actually slow down the process of people moving out of the neighborhood."
In the past, Dr. Braconi has argued that rent regulation can be useful in preventing displacement, and he said that was borne out by the research. The tenants in rent-regulated apartments were especially likely to remain in place. But even tenants in unregulated apartments were more likely to remain in gentrifying neighborhoods than elsewhere, he said.
THESE results jibe with those of a new study by Jacob L. Vigdor, an economist at Duke University, who tracked changes at 3,000 houses and apartments in Boston and its suburbs from 1985 to 1993. Fewer than 10 percent of the apartments were covered by rent control, but the trend was the same as in New York: low-income and less-educated residents of gentrifying neighborhood were more likely to remain in place than were similar residents in other neighborhoods.
How did the poor manage to stay? "I didn't find much evidence of more people crowding into the homes," Dr. Vigdor said. "For the most part, people simply paid more." About 3 percent of the people, typically elderly tenants on fixed incomes, complained that the higher rents weren't accompanied by improvement in living conditions, but most people said they were benefiting from improvements to their dwellings and their neighborhood as well as better public services. Most people's income rose at least as fast as the rents, in some cases presumably because of new jobs that came into the neighborhood.
When you add up all these advantages, it may seem hard to imagine how the opponents of gentrification could keep up the fight. If the neighborhood's improving and old-timers aren't being displaced, what's not to like? But let's see what new complaints they come up with. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%) HOUSING 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; FREEMAN, LANCE (PROF); BRACONI, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



677 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Fat Times for Office Brokers; 
Empty Space Means Landlords Give Parties and Prizes

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
It is a clear sign that something is up when landlords start plying real estate brokers with gifts -- of private jet time, raffles for luxury cars and boats, and just plain cash. 
 Commercial brokers have not really seen the likes of it since the real estate boom in the 1980's turned into a bust in the early 1990's. 
 Last Thursday, Adam C. Hochfelder, president of a real estate company named Max Capital Management, lured 400 brokers to the vacant 10th floor of his 16-story office building at 450 West 33rd Street, which houses Channel 13, The Daily News and other companies. 
Sleek models in capri pants circulated underneath palm trees, and waiters dressed in crisp white nautical uniforms served roast beef, turkey, beer and sparkling water, as the brokers at the midday party awaited the raffle of a $20,000, 16-foot Boston Whaler fishing boat. 
If a broker actually had a tenant that leased space in the building, the reward was even better: 25 hours of flight time on a Hawker 800 XP jet to the destination of his or her choice. 
Better still, it was at least the third party for brokers last week in Manhattan.
"The parties are getting bigger, better and more frequent," said Arnold J. Shlansky, a director of the Winoker Realty Company, as he gazed at the gleaming white Boston Whaler in the building's lobby. "Two days ago, they gave away an all-expense-paid trip to Antigua. I've had dinner at a fancy restaurant. Got a Palm Pilot and a digital camera."
While the apartment market in New York has gained strength recently as a result of lower mortgage rates, pent-up demand for housing and a desire to invest in real estate instead of the stock market, the office space market in the city is reeling.
Office space is sitting empty as a result of the weak economy, which has brought big staff cuts and other belt-tightening measures by New York companies. 
When times are good, some landlords regard brokers as parasites who earn fat commissions for very little work. But when acres of empty office space languish on the market for months and months at a time, every landlord wants his space front and center in the minds of brokers who have a tenant looking to make a deal. Hence the parties.
"Most brokers have notoriously short attention spans," said Douglas Durst, whose family-owned real estate company owns 10 prime office buildings in Manhattan. "When there's more than three spaces available in the market, it becomes necessary to make yours stand out."
In fact, Mr. Durst is planning his own brokers' party at Metrazur, a restaurant in Grand Central Terminal, to drive up interest in his family's East Side properties.
"It's a feature of a down market," said Peter G. Riguardi of Colliers ABR, a real estate brokerage firm.
Eighteen months ago, New York was booming and there was hardly a broom closet available in Manhattan. Parties were rare. Since then, the office vacancy rate has climbed to 9 percent in Midtown and 13.7 percent downtown, according to Insignia/ESG, a real estate company. There are now at least 37 million square feet of space -- the equivalent of almost 19 Empire State Buildings -- available in Manhattan.
"Without a doubt," said Sloane W. Rhulen, a managing director at Newmark & Company, a leasing and management firm, "when the market is in trouble there's more food and alcohol flowing."
Last Tuesday, a brokers' party at 111 West 57th Street included a talk by Tom Easton, an economist, for the intellectuals in the crowd, and a raffle for a trip for two to Jumby Bay Resort in Antigua for everyone else.
At a brokers' lunch scheduled for April 19 at 360 Park Avenue South, they are offering lunch and, rather than baubles, a raffle for straight cash to the winners, with prizes of $3,600, $1,700, $350 and $345.
In New Jersey, the rents are not as high, and the door prizes are not as extravagant.
On March 20, the owners of 10 Exchange Place in Jersey City threw a breakfast for brokers with "several wonderful prizes," including dinner for two at the Chart House restaurant on the pier in Weehawken. 
A week earlier, the Mack-Cali Realty Corporation threw a brokers' breakfast to introduce its new office tower at the Harborside complex in Jersey City. The prize was a golf weekend for two.
The parties can range from $50,000 to $150,000, said Janeen K. Saltman, an event planner who organized the party at 450 West 33rd Street. 
The theme was "On the Waterfront." Although the building is two long blocks from the Hudson River, the 10th floor offers unimpeded water views. An aquamarine pathway was painted on the bare floor leading directly to the food, and Ms. Saltman built elaborate sets, imported the palm trees and hired a dozen models and 20 waiters and put them in uniforms.
"What's the difference whether it's a party, a boat, a trip to the Caribbean or a $50,000 car," said Jay Cummings, a broker. "Every month the space sits empty, hundreds of thousands of dollars are lost."
It is a small price to pay, Mr. Hochfelder said, if a broker remembers his space rather than a competing location. At an asking rent of $39 a square foot, the 10th floor is worth $338,572 a month, or almost $4 million a year in revenue for the landlord.
Some owners do not bother with the party, choosing other inducements instead. 
At the Chelsea Market, at 15th Street and Ninth Avenue, Irwin Cohen, the developer who converted the former Nabisco Bakery to retail and office space, is offering a 2002 Lexus convertible to brokers whose tenants rent space. Alas, the offer is for a one-year lease on the car, not the car itself, but still, there is a chance to live large in a $60,000 automobile for 12 months.
At 1775 Broadway, between 57th and 58th Streets, the inducement is not food but a bonus: "an additional 2.5 percent of a full commission if a sublease is signed within 90 days of March 1." 
Broker deals vary, but a modest 3.2 percent commission on a large block of space at $30 a square foot over 15 years could bring a commission of $1.2 million.
This year's parties have not yet approached the lavish levels of the late 1980's and early 1990's, when the real estate boom ran out of air and property values collapsed. 
Many brokers fondly remember the party thrown by David and Jean Solomon, high-flying developers who built two skyscrapers, 750 Seventh Avenue and 1585 Broadway, on the north side of Times Square.
That party included a $50,000 performance by Jackie Mason in the lobby of one tower, followed by a luncheon at the other 35-story tower and a raffle for a weekend trip for two to Paris.
Unfortunately, Mr. Mason repeatedly got Mr. Solomon's name wrong. Oh, and the buildings ultimately landed in bankruptcy court.
In Midtown last Thursday, Mr. Hochfelder first fed his guests and then made his pitch. As a finale -- you must be present to win -- he pulled a business card out of a bowl. 
The winner was Stacey Kelz, a longtime broker with Murray Hill Properties. Before photographers finished taking pictures, the brokers were streaming to the elevators. 
The party was over.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An aquamarine pathway painted on the floor led to the food.; Up to 400 brokers went to Max Capital Management's party on the vacant 10th floor at 450 West 33rd Street. The brokers got a nice buffet and a chance at a fishing boat. Tenants would get a view of the Hudson and the New Jersey waterfront. (Photographs by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (76%); SPACE INDUSTRY (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); FAMILY (67%); MORTGAGE RATES (63%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (50%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

COMPANY: PALM INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (69%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



678 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: A Los Angeles Suburb Climbs Out of the Doldrums 

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN 

DATELINE: PARAMOUNT, Calif. 

 BODY:
In this once rundown and gang-ridden outpost south of Los Angeles, the new white picket fences bordering frontyards on street after street are just one sign of a citywide makeover that is as pervasive as the plummeting crime rate. The flower beds are another.
 "We were declared a big mess, and they turned it around," said Patrick Lynch, 37, one of the city's 14 gardeners, who was tending the primroses in front of City Hall. "Those are our bragging rights." 
 Mr. Lynch was referring to a 1982 study for the Department of Housing and Urban Development that called Paramount a "disaster area" along with neighboring Compton, three other Los Angeles suburbs and nine cities elsewhere in the country. The RAND Corporation, which conducted the study, considered crime rates, income, per-capita debt and education, the amount of deteriorated housing, and demographic characteristics like the number of people on welfare.
Paramount was dismal on all counts.
"Paramount had fallen straight on its face," said Patrick H. West, the city manager. "In the 80's, people wouldn't say they were from Paramount. They were from Long Beach -- anywhere but here."
That has changed. City officials, shamed by the study's conclusions, decided to rid the place of its aura of danger and decay. The effort included crackdowns on gangs and building-code violators. It also meant grants to homeowners and businesses to improve their properties, a public art program, new parks, fountains and monuments, and trees and landscaped medians on major thoroughfares. In the last decade, Paramount has spent $62 million on capital improvement, primarily through redevelopment bonds, federal and state allocations, and sales and property taxes.
"The idea was to marshal our forces with both public and private funds to reinvigorate the economy of the area," said Jack Joseph, deputy executive director of the Gateway Cities Council of Governments, a joint-powers authority of 27 cities in southern Los Angeles County. "There are other places that have had varying degrees of success, but Paramount has done a dramatic about-face."
From 1981 to 2001, so-called Part 1 crimes like homicide, rape, robbery, burglary and grand theft auto dropped 16.3 percent. During the same period, the city's population rose almost 60 percent, to just over 57,000, while the municipal budget rose to $38.3 million this year from a 1982 total of $15.5 million.
"It took us years to clean up our act," Mr. West said. "In order to attract business, we had to lower our crime rate. Then the floodgates opened."
In 1994, Wal-Mart opened a store here, the first time a major chain had established itself in the area. Several other franchises have since opened, including two Baskin-Robbins stores and a Starbucks. Last month, a Home Depot opened, a project into which the city pumped $1.5 million for beautification of the surrounding area.
In residential areas, where some real estate brokers report offers higher than asking prices for the first time in years, the most ubiquitous evidence of the upgrading is the white fences, which are made of durable polyurethane and which in many cases replaced chain-link fences or concrete walls. The city pays 75 percent of the cost.
"They're the single most effective, low-cost tool to stop residential urban blight," Mr. West said, who noted that the median home price in Paramount was $155,000, up from $62,700 in 1980.
Elsewhere in town, formerly dreary fast-food outlets, car washes, medical offices and grocery stores have received makeovers with the city's help, under design guidelines that favor a Spanish Revival look. Three whole blocks of buildings, considered beyond hope, were torn down. 
There are now eight "pocket parks," vacant lots that the city refurbished and maintains while conceding the property owners' right to sell at any time. This summer, the city plans to embark on a $2.5 million construction project next to City Hall that will include a new street and a plaza with fountains.
"They've done a wonderful job," said Maria Dadian, city manager of Artesia, a city of 16,500 people southeast of here that is struggling to repair its streets and other infrastructure.
Ms. Dadian suggested that she and her counterparts in cities nearby look almost with envy upon Paramount. 
The RAND study was an effort to define the problems in suburbs close to large cities that were themselves beset by blight and crime.
"There was a general feeling that suburbs were all lily-white and affluent," said Kevin McCarthy, a senior social scientist with RAND, a nonpartisan research organization. "Although some communities clearly didn't like being labeled as troubled."
Paramount, known in skating and hockey circles as the place where Zamboni ice-making machines are manufactured, is still far from being a tourist destination, and not everyone is thrilled with the progress.
"It's more overcrowded," said Betty Chism, a horsewoman who has lived here for 45 years and has resisted recent offers for the 2.5 acres on which her house and stables sit. "No matter how you do it, people aren't inclined to get along that well. Overcrowding creates anxiety. We never had to call a cop on a cow."
Just south of the Chism land, two rows of pale yellow townhouses have been built. To the north is the huge Home Depot store.
The Starbucks shop has become a point of pride for city officials, who gladly take visitors to the emporium, overlooking a sculpture garden.
"This is very much better around here," said Sandra Gomez, 41, a notary who has lived in Paramount for 10 years and who had stopped for a coffee. "But there's always room to keep improving."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A biker and a skateboarder frolicked near the city of Paramount's welcome sign, part of the Southern California city's beautification project. (Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times) Map of California highlights Paramount: Paramount, Calif., once depressed, has revived in the last decade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); BURGLARY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); BUDGETS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); HOMICIDE (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ROBBERY (60%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (50%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: RAND CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%)

PERSON: MADIGAN, NICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF); PARAMOUNT (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



679 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Spreading the Blame at Andersen 

BYLINE:  By James O'Toole; James O'Toole is a professor at the Center for Effective Organizations at the University of Southern California.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Arthur Andersen, Enron's accounting firm, went public last week with a campaign to free itself of accountability for whatever its Houston-based partners may have done to abet the cooking of Enron's books. At rallies in Houston, Washington and elsewhere, and in full-page advertisements in national newspapers, Andersen's 28,000 United States employees offer the defense that in effect, they are innocent bystanders. It is unfair, they say, to punish the entire firm for the acts of a few miscreants.
 The Justice Department, in an unprecedented indictment, has charged the whole firm with obstruction of justice for shredding documents related to the government's investigation of Enron. Last week Paul Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, whom Andersen has engaged to restore its credibility, offered to install a new board and management if the government would drop its case. 
 The government has yet to respond to Mr. Volcker's offer, and it remains to be seen whether it can make its case in court. What's certain is that if the argument put forth by Andersen's employees and its public relations consultants is accepted by the business community, it will undermine the credibility of the accounting profession and further erode investor confidence in the accuracy of certified financial statements.
The "I am Andersen" campaign is antithetical to the stated purpose and role of external auditing firms. When Big Five accounting firms compete for corporate clients, the essence of their sales pitch is their global reach and expertise. A corporation is not retaining the services of a single team of accountants, or even those of a regional office: It is engaging the capabilities of a worldwide professional organization.
Foremost among those capabilities is the expertise of firmwide committees of experts who carefully review and interpret accounting standards and rulings from the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are then applied to the accounts of every client. Moreover, large, established firms offer corporations the protection that comes from rigorous review processes and systems of control that monitor both the quality and the ethical integrity of the work of the many members of the partnership.
If Andersen's team of Enron auditors violated S.E.C. rules, the firm cannot argue that this was simply an isolated incident. These events must have stemmed from faulty standards, flawed systems of review and control or simple human failure on the part of those who were supposed to be standing watch. Any or all of these explanations would be damaging to the reputation of the entire organization. Any or all of them would lead to the conclusion that not only are the individual accountants who audit Enron culpable, but the entire firm also bears responsibility for either managerial incompetence or ethical turpitude.
To argue otherwise, as Andersen is now doing, is tantamount to admitting that the signature of the firm that appears in corporate annual reports is worthless. In effect, it is offering the self-defeating defense that it does not stand behind the accuracy of its own work.
This is one step down the ethical ladder from Exxon's infamous attempt to unload full responsibility for the Exxon Valdez disaster on the captain of its ship (who doubtless bore the largest share of responsibility, but not the entire burden). Andersen's two-step may even be more immoral than Exxon's. The very product of an accounting firm is its integrity, its solemn pledge that it has rigorously checked the facts and stands behind the accuracy of the financial statements being released.
The moral analysis behind the "I am Andersen" campaign is muddled, to say the least. Andersen partners seem to forget that they all shared in the profits from handsome fees they collected from Enron. Now they cry foul when they are all paying the price -- the threat of unemployment -- for their collective failure to keep a clean house. But when an organization makes a mistake, the market metes out its punishment, and in some cases that punishment is failure. If no such price is paid, then managers at other organizations have no incentive to be vigilant; nor are employees at all levels motivated to demand adherence to stated corporate values and standards of conduct.
Yes, innocent employees get hurt when the actions of those at the top of a company cause it to lose credibility. But it makes no sense to argue that is "unfair" for Andersen's employees to have to pay the price for the ethical and managerial lapses of their superiors. Such is the nature of competitive capitalism.
In the end, the issue is one of organizational accountability. External auditors are the police force of the business world, protecting and serving the investing public. When a few bad cops betray the trust of citizens they are sworn to protect, the public does not let the departments in which they serve off the moral hook. Similarly, the public is holding the Catholic Church accountable for failing to control the behavior of its "errant" priests.
By the same reasoning, we should not accept the argument that Andersen's troubles are due to the careless or even criminal acts of a few rogue accountants. For good or for ill, the reputation of an organization is made through the words and deeds of its members. That is the nature of accountability, and it is a lesson accountants, of all people, should understand.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Warren Linn) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (91%); ACCOUNTING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHICS (89%); AUDITS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INDICTMENTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); ANNUAL REPORTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



680 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Europe Versus United States In Steel War; 
Mergers and Staff CutsLowered Costs Overseas

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: ELSH, Luxembourg, March 20 

 BODY:
Like many steel towns in Pennsylvania or Ohio, this one is still home to a hulking old mill in the grand tradition: iron ore in at one end, giant smelters in the middle and finished products at the other side.
 But there is at least one big difference. Too many old mills in the United States are still in business, and going bankrupt at an alarming rate. The one here went out of business in 1997 and is a monument. 
 Taking its place, right next door, is a five-year-old minimill that melts scrap steel and produces almost as much as the old one at a fraction of the cost. The work force here has shrunk from 5,000 in the 1970's to 1,000. From melting and casting to rolling out new girders, the process is controlled by a skeleton crew of technicians. 
The changes here help explain why European political leaders are so angry about President Bush's decision to protect American steel makers by imposing high tariffs on imports.
From the European vantage point, steel companies here have put themselves through a grueling transformation while, for the most part, the big integrated American steel mills have not.
"If you look at our competitors, the United States has always been the leader in consolidation," said Guy Dolle, managing director of Arcelor, the Luxembourg-based company that owns the mills here. "But in steel, nothing has been done."
The steel dispute threatens to become the most serious trade feud in decades between the United States and Europe. The European Commission plans to impose its own safeguard tariffs in early April, to prevent steel imports from surging beyond last year's level. 
The European Commission is also considering retaliatory tariffs against American products. European officials may also step up demands for compensation in a separate trade dispute over American tax breaks, which have already been ruled illegal by the World Trade Organization.
Europe is hardly a region of low wages and low costs. But in an industry where size really counts, European steel companies have put themselves through so many mergers that the industry here is dominated by a handful of giants that are much bigger than any American rival.
Thus, improbable as it may sound, the tiny duchy of Luxembourg (population 420,000) is home to the world's biggest steel producer.
Arcelor, which came into being less than two months ago, is a result of a three-way merger among Arbed, Luxembourg's biggest steel producer; Usinor, France's biggest; and Aceralia, one of Spain's biggest.
Each of those companies, in turn, was created by numerous smaller mergers over the last 15 years. The result is a behemoth that produces 45 million tons of steel a year, about three times the output of U.S. Steel.
Arcelor is not alone. ThyssenKrupp is a result of a merger of Germany's two largest steel companies. Corus, the British-Dutch steel producer, was formed in the 1999 merger of British Steel and Royal Hoogovens of the Netherlands.
The results of all this have been dramatic. In 1980, Europe's five largest steel companies accounted for 30 percent of steel production in the European Union. Today, the top five account for more than 60 percent. 
By contrast, the top five American companies account for about a third of the American market, and they are all much smaller than their biggest rivals in either Europe or Asia.
Europe's steel employment, meanwhile, has shrunk radically, from nearly 800,000 workers in 1980 to fewer than 280,000 today.
"There has been a massive restructuring in the past 25 years," said Hans-Karl Starke, an analyst at the Rhine-Westphalia Institute for Economic Research in Germany. "That has not happened in the United States. A clean-up of the industry there is long overdue."
To be sure, American steel companies have gone through wrenching changes of their own. U.S. Steel today is far smaller than it was in 1980, and far more focused on more profitable specialty products.
European steel executives also note that American minimill producers are extremely competitive. The problems, they contend, are with the big integrated producers that begin with iron ore, smelt it to make steel and then produce finished products.
European executives also tend to agree with American steel executives on an important point: the biggest hindrance to consolidation in the United States is the huge burden of paying pension and health benefits for retirees.
American steel companies lobbied unsuccessfully last year for the federal government to assume those liabilities, which would have allowed them to merge more freely because, with their costs lower, they would have been more desirable takeover candidates.
The European companies do not have that problem. In most countries, pension and health care benefits are government responsibilities. On top of that, the European Commission carried out a sweeping plan in the 1970's and 1980's to help finance early retirement for companies that reduced their capacity.
"We had government assistance on retirement and health benefits, I admit that," Mr. Dolle said.
American manufacturers have also been burdened by the high value of the dollar, which gained about 25 percent against the euro since early 1999 and remains near record levels. That makes American steel more expensive and imports cheaper.
But if exchange rates and retiree benefits are outside the control of steel makers, their operational strategies are not.
European steel makers have adopted a noticeably different strategy, embracing the minimill concept far more aggressively than their American counterparts. Luxembourg became a steel-producing country nearly a century ago because it had ample supplies of iron ore. Today, no one even mines iron ore because all the Luxembourg mills are minimills that melt down scrap.
Though many of Arcelor's mills are integrated producers, all three of its component companies have minimills for at least part of their output.
The physical changes here are startling. The old mill still exists, though the giant blast furnaces have been dismantled and sold to companies in China. 
The new minimill produces a similar range of products as before -- steel beams used in construction and steel piling often used in docks and harbors.
Almost everything is automated. There are few workers visible. The giant chamber where the furnace is is normally empty of human beings. The continuous-casting area, where six golden streams of molten steel flow into the molds, is monitored by one or two workers.
A handful of others work in a control room and monitor the process on computer screens.
Perhaps more startling is the extent of cross-border mergers. Even before the three-way merger, Arbed of Luxembourg owned mills in Germany and Brazil. Several years ago, it bought 35 percent of Spain's former state-owned steel company, Aceralia. 
Though industries like banks, airlines and automobiles remain dominated by national champions in many European countries, the cross-border steel mergers have generated little anxiety.
None of that is to say that the European steel producers are flourishing. 
Over the last decade, Europe has swung from being a net exporter to a net importer of steel. Central European countries have become tough new competitors, so much so that a consortium of Western European companies has offered to buy four of Poland's biggest steel mills.
Despite those problems, industry analysts are upbeat. Steel prices have been heading back up from their lows, as the global economy shows sign of recovery.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Much of the control room at the Arbed plant in Luxembourg is automated, above. At left, a coil of steel from the Netherlands is unloaded in Camden, N.J., for shipment to Ford in Ohio. (Beno T. Pesle/Anzenberger, for The New York Times, above; Agence France-Presse, left) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); STRUCTURAL METAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRADE DISPUTES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); TRENDS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STEEL AND IRON; UNITED STATES; EUROPE; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (82%); ACERALIA CORP SIDERURGICA SA (51%); USINOR (FRANCE) (51%)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (82%); MT (PAR) (82%); MT (NYSE) (82%); MT (AMS) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (82%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (95%); LUXEMBOURG (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



681 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
ABN AMRO TO CLOSE 2 UNITS IN UNITED STATES

BYLINE:  AP

 BODY:
 ABN Amro Holding N.V. said yesterday that it would close its domestic equities and mergers and acquisitions businesses in the United States and cut 550 jobs. 
The company, a leading Dutch bank, said the move would allow it to focus on strengthening its European and Asian equities and corporate finance activities. ABN Amro said it would keep its international equities and derivatives businesses in the United States, as well as its merger and acquisitions advisory services to international clients. The closing is in line with ABN Amro's strategy of withdrawing from areas that do not meet its profit targets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); MERGERS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (82%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (97%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: ABN AMRO HOLDING NV (AAN) 

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (97%); BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (97%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (97%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (97%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (97%) SIC6029 OTHER COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



682 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Unions Win Dues Ruling On Appeal 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
In a decision that will bolster union organizing, a federal appeals court in San Francisco ruled yesterday that employees at unionized workplaces cannot withhold the part of their union payments that finance organizing drives.
 The ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in effect reversed a ruling issued last May by a three-judge panel of the court. The panel's ruling held that workers at unionized workplaces who exercised their right not to join a union could withhold the part of their payments to the union that go toward organizing campaigns. 
 Under federal law, workers who choose to join a union must pay full union dues, while employees at unionized workplaces who decide not to belong pay a fee usually equivalent to full union dues.
The Supreme Court ruled in 1988 that workers at unionized employers who opt not to join the union do not have to pay that part of their union fees that finance political activity or other activity not germane to collective bargaining or administering grievances.
In yesterday's ruling, supported unanimously by 11 Ninth Circuit judges, the court decided against extending this right to withhold payments used for organizing. At many unions, 10 percent to 20 percent of the dues finances organizing.
The ruling upheld a decision by the National Labor Relations Board. In the decision, written by Judge Stephen Reinhardt, the court stated that union organizing was tied closely to collective bargaining.
The court, relying on findings by the labor board and economists, wrote that the more workers that a union organizes in its industry, the greater its bargaining power. 
In the lawsuit, the United Food and Commercial Workers argued that if just one of three supermarkets in a city were unionized, the unionized supermarket's management could argue that it needed to keep its wages down to compete with nonunion rivals. But if the union organizes all three supermarkets, it will have a stronger hand in bargaining.
John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, praised yesterday's ruling. Labor leaders denounced last May's decision, fearing that it would hurt union treasuries and organizing drives.
"Helping other workers form unions strengthens everyone's hand at the bargaining table," Mr. Sweeney said.
Stefan Gleason, vice president of the National Right to Work Foundation, an advocacy group opposed to compulsory union dues, said his organization would appeal to the Supreme Court.
"No worker should be forced to fund the recruitment of supporters to a private ideological cause," Mr. Gleason said. "This ruling is an outrageous affront to employee freedom." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); JUDGES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (55%)

PERSON: STEPHEN REINHARDT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



683 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1656 words

HEADLINE: Forget the Car Keys 

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
Unlike his predecessor, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is not much known for fiery righteousness, except when he takes on the school system. But at a news conference this month, another subject seemed to bring out the Giuliani in him.
 He was questioned about a study that argued that his administration's driving restrictions into Manhattan were inflicting economic damage on the city. "Time out," he said forcefully, pointing out that the study had been paid for mostly by parking garage owners, for whom lots of traffic means lots of business. "I think," he told the reporter, "that is where you can end that question." 
 Instead of similarities, the exchange actually pointed out an important difference between the two mayors: in one of the nation's most congested cities, Mr. Bloomberg is making the battle against gridlock one of his administration's top priorities. And while Rudolph W. Giuliani tended to favor drivers when he focused on transportation, Mr. Bloomberg frequently seems to be siding against them, in a way not seen since Mayor John V. Lindsay's "car-free weekend" experiments. 
In Mr. Bloomberg's budget, in his policies, even in the example he is setting by riding the subway to City Hall most mornings, he is questioning the assumption that New Yorkers with cars should be able to take them where they want when they want with few hindrances -- other than the heavy traffic created by too many other drivers doing the same.
He summons up little sympathy for people who are finding it more difficult to drive into central Manhattan. "In the end," he said during one of his recent weekly radio programs, "we all have to take mass transit."
In the next week, Mr. Bloomberg's resolve on his stance will be tested as never before, as West Street and the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel are prepared for full reopening for the first time since Sept. 11. This will return traffic in Lower Manhattan as close to normal as it has been in months, putting much more pressure on the mayor to lift the morning driving restrictions. Mr. Bloomberg has vowed to hold his ground, for now, but lawyers working for those who oppose the restrictions are already sharpening their knives.
Traffic experts and advocates for mass transit say that, so far, the administration's efforts to wean people from their cars seem to be based more on the mayor's broad sentiments than on considered policymaking. And the message is not always consistent. At times, they say, Daniel Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, sounds much more car-friendly than his boss, commiserating with business leaders who are opposed to the single-occupant car ban in the morning on many crossings into Manhattan.
"Bloomberg has a much more progressive vision of the relationship between the car and the city," said John Kaehny, executive director of Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group. "But he hasn't developed a consistent philosophy or plan that you can really pin down."
Still, a tentative theme does seem to be emerging from the mayor's priorities. It is a theme suited to a man with a long background in the boardroom and one that many drivers will undoubtedly not like: city roads, bridges and curbs -- particularly those in the most crowded part, the central business district of Manhattan -- are an expensive, limited resource and should be treated as such. In other words, if drivers want to use them, maybe it should cost something. First of all, according to theory, charging is an effective way to manage the use of the resources. Second, it makes the city extra cash.
"Public space is a precious commodity," one senior administration official said. "And if it is a precious commodity, then shouldn't the government be thinking about how to regulate it more? I think that's where he's coming from."
Evidence of the mayor's thinking can be found throughout the small print of his proposed budget. Beginning in the spring, for example, at about 3,500 parking meters on the East Side of Manhattan, parking on Sundays will no longer be free.
The mayor wants fines for some kinds of illegal parking to be markedly increased, up to $100, and for limousine drivers to have to pay more for licenses.
He has also decided to greatly expand a program for charging trucks and vans for curbside parking that was once free in much of Midtown. The program was started under the Giuliani administration, but Mr. Bloomberg asked his transportation commissioner, Iris Weinshall, to expand it even beyond what she had recommended, onto most streets from Third Avenue to Eighth Avenues between 43rd and 56th Streets.
Mr. Bloomberg has made it clear since he took office that he intends to start attacking totems of car culture, beginning with the entrenched one that has long existed in city bureaucracy. He asked agencies to shrink their car fleets, and ordered a cut of 30 percent in the huge number of official parking passes issued to everyone from the press to priests.
But the most aggressive of Mr. Bloomberg's plans to combat congestion deals with the crossings into Manhattan from the other boroughs and from New Jersey.
He has long favored placing tolls on the city-owned East River bridges, a potentially explosive political issue that many consider unlikely. He has more discretion over the single-occupant driving ban on weekday mornings, which was started under Mr. Giuliani as a stop-gap way to end horrendous jams caused by highway security checks and more cars on the road. Mr. Bloomberg has been able to continue the ban only by including it in special emergency orders he issues every five days to help speed the cleanup of the World Trade Center site. 
Aides say that the mayor fully supports keeping the ban in place as a permanent traffic management tool, to force people onto trains, buses and ferries and to thin out traffic into Manhattan during the morning rush. His administration has already spent considerable political capital by keeping the ban in place as long as it has -- angering wealthy, well-connected garage owners and powerful labor leaders, some of whom have threatened to take the city to court. 
"He seems not to necessarily understand the burden that the S.O.V. ban places on a lot of people in a lot of neighborhoods in this city," said David Weprin, a city councilman from eastern Queens, where most residents must drive or take a bus to get to subway lines.
"I've gone every single way into the city from my district, and believe me if I thought the subway or bus was an attractive, quality-of-life way to go to work, I would do it and so would my constituents," said Mr. Weprin, an outspoken opponent of the driving ban who added that he found the subway "one of the most unpleasant experiences" that New Yorkers had to endure.
"The public transportation system needs a lot of improvement," he said. "And some people people just need their cars." Mr. Bloomberg's perspective, he added, is unavoidably limited. "The mayor is a Manhattan person," Mr. Weprin said. "He's never lived in the outer boroughs as far as I know."
Unlike Mr. Giuliani, who rarely offended core Republican supporters in car-dependent neighborhoods outside Manhattan, Mr. Bloomberg so far seems unconcerned by the obvious displeasure that many of his policies will cause in those same areas. 
But in a city where advocates for pedestrians and mass transit usually spend much of their time attacking the city's traffic policies, so far Mr. Bloomberg has earned mostly praise. "Under Mayor Giuliani, given the immediate crisis that the city was in, the issues of crime, welfare reform, quality of life and education had to come first," said Elliot G. Sander, director of the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management at New York University. "Having said that, transportation is crucial to New York's sustained growth, and Mayor Bloomberg deserves enormous credit for having the vision to give it a higher priority than it has had in decades."
One large group of advocates and traffic experts has nicknamed Mr. Bloomberg the MetroCard Mayor, and says it is cautiously waiting to see whether he will remain true to his anticar campaign positions.
Among those was a transportation priority list that ranked the most important issues facing the city. First was the ability for emergency vehicles to move more quickly through the streets. Second, Mr. Bloomberg's platform stated, walking should be made "safer, easier and faster." Next, mass transit should be promoted and commercial deliveries made more efficient. Only last, he said, "for those who insist on driving, to the extent possible, the traffic must flow."
While the number of people entering the island south of 96th Street was the same in 1998 as it was 50 years earlier -- 3.6 million people a day -- the number of cars entering the area shot up over that time, from 657,000 a day to more than 1.3 million now, according to the mayor's campaign data.
Under the Giuliani administration, little was done to stem that tide. In fact, many of the former mayor's most visible transportation decisions seemed intended largely with drivers in mind: erecting pedestrian barriers to make it easier for cars to turn, cracking down on jaywalkers. Aides to Mr. Bloomberg, however, say that he sees the crush of traffic in and around Manhattan as a serious threat to the city's economic health.
Other long-congested cities around the world have already started to deal with the issue, including, most recently, London, which announced that it would begin charging about $7 a day next year to any driver who wants to take a car into the heart of the city. As one economist there put it, defending the controversial policy, "When something is free, people will use it all up."
The Bloomberg administration says that it is not considering putting up toll booths around Midtown any time soon, but it did mention that Ms. Weinshall, the transportation commissioner, was going to London soon to explore new ideas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Restrictions on weekday driving into Manhattan remain in effect. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); MAYORS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); CITIES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); BUDGETS (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (70%); PARKING LOT OPERATORS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



684 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Prices for Auto and Home Insurance Are Increasing Sharply 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
Prices for auto and home insurance have been rising sharply around the country in the last few months as insurers struggle to keep pace with increasing costs, insurance executives and analysts said yesterday.
 The two biggest auto and home insurers, State Farm and Allstate, have taken the lead in the price increases, and many smaller companies are following, analysts said. 
 "Both auto and homeowners insurance have lost tremendous amounts of money over the last few years," said Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group.
Ronald D. McNeil, a senior vice president for Allstate, told investors at a Banc of America securities conference in New York yesterday that Allstate had increased its prices for auto insurance an average of 8.3 percent in 17 states so far this year. He said Allstate had raised its prices for home insurance by an average of more than 20 percent in 20 states. 
State Farm said it was taking similar action. It was not immediately able to provide figures for the increases so far this year. But Richard Luedke, a spokesman, said the increases were significantly larger than those in the previous year, when they averaged 4.6 percent for home insurance and 2.7 percent for auto insurance. The increases were necessary, he said, because "we were paying out more in claims than we were collecting in premiums."
J. Robert Hunter, the director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America, said that profit and loss trends for the insurers indicated a need for an average increase of 4 percent to 8 percent in auto premiums. But he said increases of 20 percent for home insurance were "way out of line."
"I don't see anything in the data that would justify an increase of that magnitude," he said. 
In some states, the increases are even higher, analysts said. "We're starting to see increases of 25 percent to 30 percent in a lot of states," said Ira L. Zuckerman at Nutmeg Securities in Fairfield, Conn.
For years, he said, home insurance was sold as a loss-leader to attract customers to the more lucrative business of auto insurance. But in recent years, both lines of coverage have been losing money.
Auto insurance is the largest line of coverage in the industry, accounting for about $125 billion a year in sales. By contrast, sales for home insurance last year came to $34 billion. Cars far outnumber homes, Mr. Hartwig said, and insurance claims on cars are more frequent and often more expensive. Some claims for injuries, for example, can run into the millions of dollars.
Insurance executives discounted the Sept. 11 attacks as a factor in the rising rates for cars and homes.
Mr. Hartwig said costs for insuring homes had been increasing because of rising expenses for building materials and, for the last two years, a number of relatively small but costly storms. The insurers have also been hit, he said, by costly claims in Texas and California and other states from water damage that has led to the growth of toxic mold.
In some cases, toxic mold has been so extensive that homes have been destroyed and insurers have been forced to pay the full amount of the coverage. In response, insurers are cutting back their coverage for mold and water damage.
Insuring autos has become more expensive, Mr. Hartwig said, because of rising costs for medical services and sharp increases in fraudulent injury claims. In New York, Texas, Colorado and California, the police say gangs stage auto accidents so they can collect money for supposed injuries.
The auto insurers made things worse for themselves by competing fiercely on price, said Michael A. Lewis, an analyst at UBS Warburg. "Now they are stressing rates over volume," he said.
Several insurers began raising prices for home and auto insurance last year, but until recently State Farm had resisted doing so.
The action of the big companies, Mr. Zuckerman said, makes it easier for smaller companies to raise their prices. "If the big guys are raising their prices," he said, "it means the little guys don't have to worry about losing business to the big guys." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (92%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); TRENDS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%) INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES; REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT 

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (91%); ALLSTATE CORP (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (57%)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002 



685 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Executives' Windfalls 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your March 21 editorial about Walter Hewlett's opposition to the Hewlett-Packard and Compaq merger, in part because of anticipated post-deal "outrageous executive compensation," should reawaken shareholders elsewhere to hold their directors and compensation committees accountable for extravagant compensation schemes, and particularly schemes not clearly related to executive performance. 
 The obscenely high stock option and incentive packages for management of many companies threaten not only the integrity of corporate America but also our democracy. 
America's future may depend to some degree on our success in restraining the extreme spread in the economic status of the very rich and the average citizen caused in large part by outrageous executive compensation and tax reductions that primarily favor the wealthy.

PAUL F. PERKINS
Hamilton, Mass., March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: PERKINS, PAUL F 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



686 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
Gains Spurredby Upbeat Data End 4-Day Losing Streak

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Gains in consumer confidence and durable goods orders brought buyers back to Wall Street yesterday, sending stocks solidly higher and ending a four-session losing streak for blue chips.
 Analysts said the advance had as much to do with lower prices as positive economic news. Bargain hunting was expected after the extended sell-off, which came on concerns about the pace of the business turnaround and fears that possible interest rate increases might further hamper profits. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended the lightly traded session up 71.69 points, or 0.7 percent, at 10,353.36. The blue-chip index lost 353.58 points in the previous four sessions, giving back all of its March advance. 
Many analysts doubt that the market is on an upward path, especially ahead of first-quarter earnings reports. The market's performance yesterday underscored that uncertainty as the Dow fell back from its session high, a gain of 151.12 points.
The broader market followed the Dow's trading pattern. The Nasdaq composite index rose 11.68 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,824.17, retreating from an earlier advance of 31.47 points.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.62 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,138.49. The S.& P. had risen as much as 15.13 points.
Analysts expect low volume to factor into trading throughout the week as many traders take time off for Passover, which begins Wednesday, and Easter. The market will be closed Friday for Good Friday.
Stocks advanced on two positive economic reports: orders for durable goods rose 1.5 percent in February and consumer confidence surged in March.
Among the gainers were Philip Morris, up $1.27, to $53.23; Wal-Mart, climbing 89 cents, to $62.17; and Intel, rising 77 cents, to $30.77.
Analysts said stock prices might have risen too high, too fast and that investors are also likely to take some profits as companies begin reporting quarterly earnings next month.
"I have a sneaking suspicion that we are not going to see this run much further; we are just too overbought in the short term," said Richard A. Dickson, technical analyst for Hilliard Lyons in Louisville, Ky.
Mr. Dickson noted that the March rally was largely confined to the Dow industrials. The Dow's highest point this month occurred on March 19 when it closed at 10,635.25, up 529.12 points, or 5.2 percent, from the start of the month.
"That doesn't represent a real broad-based expanse in the market," Mr. Dickson said.
Yesterday's losers included WorldCom, down 41 cents, to $6.11, after UBS Warburg cut its rating to hold from buy. --------------------

Treasury Prices Climb
By Reuters
Prices of Treasury notes rose for the first day in three yesterday after a decline in orders for some durable goods suggested that the Federal Reserve would wait at least until its June policy meeting to raise interest rates.
Investors drove down the yield on the benchmark 10-year note after Robert McTeer, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said he was "in no hurry" to increase rates because inflation might keep slowing.
By late in the day, the 10-year note rose 15/32, to a price of 96. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.34 percent from 5.40 percent on Monday.
The 30-year bond climbed 23/32, to a price of 94 24/32. Its yield dropped to 5.75 percent from 5.80 percent.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a four-week bill:

(000 omitted in dollar figures

Price: 99.862
High Rate: 1.770
Coupon Yield: 1.801
Low Rate: 1.720
Median Rate: 1.760
Total applied for: $46,837,419
Accepted: $22,308,571
Noncompetitive: $21,874

The four-week bills mature April 25.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BOND MARKETS (75%); EASTER SEASON (74%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (56%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (57%); J J B HILLIARD W L LYONS INC (52%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (52%) KENTUCKY, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



687 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 436 words

PERSON: Ernest van den Haag 

HEADLINE: E. van den Haag, 87, Educator And Backer of Death Penalty 

BYLINE:  By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Ernest van den Haag, a conservative commentator on social issues, especially crime, and a leading advocate of the death penalty, died on Thursday in Mendham, N.J. He was 87 and a longtime resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
 He died at a nursing home, succumbing "to the myriad attenuations of old age," William F. Buckley Jr. said in an obituary of Dr. van den Haag that is to appear in National Review, to which Dr. van den Haag was a consultant and occasional contributor for more than four decades. 
 Dr. van den Haag, who was also an educator and psychoanalyst, was John M. Olin professor of jurisprudence and public policy at Fordham from 1982 to 1988 and held many other teaching posts. 
Dr. van den Haag wrote in 1983 in an Op-Ed article in The New York Times: "Common sense, lately bolstered by statistics, tells us that the death penalty will deter murder, if anything can. People fear nothing more than death. Therefore, nothing will deter a criminal more than the fear of death. Death is final. But where there is life there is hope. 
"Wherefore, life in prison is less feared. Murderers clearly prefer it to execution -- otherwise, they would not try to be sentenced to life in prison instead of death. (Only an infinitesimal percentage of murderers are suicidal.) Therefore, a life sentence must be less deterrent than a death sentence. And we must execute murderers as long as it is merely possible that their execution protects citizens from future murder."
Dr. van den Haag was comfortable taking strong and often controversial stands on a wide range of other issues. He was a critic of the 1954 Supreme Court desegregation decision in the case of Brown v. Board of Education. 
He also advocated abolition of the child labor laws, saying that the evils they were intended to guard against had long passed.
After he stopped teaching at Fordham, he continued to lecture, mainly about criminology, and to write. 
He was born in The Hague. The National Review obituary says he was interned by the Nazis as a teenager, escaped and left the Netherlands. He came to the United States in 1940. He was a propaganda analyst with the United States Office of War Information in World War II.
After studying at the Sorbonne and elsewhere, he received a master's degree in 1942 from the University of Iowa and a doctorate in economics in 1952 from New York University. His other teaching posts included adjunct professor of social policy at N.Y.U. and lecturer in psychology at the New School for Social Research. He practiced psychoanalysis in New York City from 1955 to 1982.
He leaves no immediate survivors.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Wednesday about Ernest van den Haag, a Dutch-born conservative commentator on social issues, misidentified the regime by which he told friends he had been detained in the 1930's. It was the Fascist regime in Italy, not the Nazis in the Netherlands.
The obituary also gave an incomplete version of Dr. van den Haag's account of his escapes from internment and misstated the sequence of events. In the account, supplied by National Review from his coming obituary, Dr. van den Haag said he escaped from the Fascists at 19 and fled to France. He also said that the French interned him as an enemy alien after the start of World War II, but that he escaped to Portugal and then to the United States. He did not tell of having reached the United States directly from the Netherlands.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ernest van den Haag (1976) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (93%); SENTENCING (90%); MURDER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PRISONS (87%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); DEATH & DYING (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%); WORLD WAR II (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); CHILD LABOR (62%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (62%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

VAN DEN HAAG, ERNEST; PACE, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



688 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: In Mild Winter, The Northeast Sees a Windfall 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, March 26 

 BODY:
A relatively mild winter in the Northeast has helped cities and states save hundreds of thousands of dollars in snow-removal costs, a welcome respite in a tough economic climate.
 In Pittsburgh, domes of rock salt are still filled to the top. The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation expects to save $25 million statewide. 
 "That's actual cash savings that we can redirect to repairs this spring and summer," an agency spokesman, Steve Chizmer, said.
In the Washington suburb of Rockville, Md., the Public Works Department will save a third of its snow-removal budget, possibly enough to buy a new piece of equipment, said Hal Cranor, the department's director.
"It will stay in the Public Works Department as long as I can spend it," Mr. Cranor said.
A snowstorm coated several communities in the region today, but forecasters said it would have little impact on average snowfall amounts.
"Northern New York, New England, western Pennsylvania and down through the Appalachians have seen very little snow this year, generally well below normal, especially southern New England," said a National Weather Service forecaster, Dave Martin.
Dave Krisanda, a Transportation Department spokesman for four northeastern Pennsylvania counties, said 50 to 120 inches of snow typically fell on his region in a year, but not this winter.
"We have a lot of extra salt and antiskid in hand." Mr. Krisanda said. "That means we won't have to buy as much in the fall."
Many municipalities in Massachusetts, which allows cities to fold any overspending into the following year's budget, are looking forward to smaller deficits than usual.
Robert Moylan, a commissioner of Public Works in Worcester, Mass., said the city budgeted $1.1 million on snow removal this year and had spent about $1.3 million. Last winter, his city overspent by $2 million.
John Dourgarian, a spokesman for the New Jersey Department of Transportation, said his state budgeted $12.7 million and spent $6.9 million as of the beginning of March. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) WEATHER; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (74%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) PENNSYLVANIA; NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



689 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Consumers Are Positive. So Are Orders For Durables. 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Consumer confidence soared in March, the Conference Board reported yesterday, offering more evidence that the optimistic resilience of the American shopper is pulling the nation back from recession.
 In the daily flow of economic data, that was the latest headline, and it sent stock prices smartly higher for a while. A second report -- new orders last month for computers, machinery, trucks, planes and other durable goods -- was also positive. But it failed to provide convincing evidence that companies were once again expanding. Without that turnaround in capital spending, the consumer-led recovery could lose steam. 
 "The message in these latest numbers is that consumers are doing surprisingly well, but companies are still struggling with investment and production," said James W. Paulsen, senior economist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. "That has been the story for nearly six months."
Positive economic data -- and the data has been much more positive than negative in recent weeks -- raises concerns, particularly on Wall Street, that the Federal Reserve may push up interest rates to slow growth and thus restrain inflation. Although the Fed's policy makers have stopped cutting rates, they have been less optimistic about the economy than have most private forecasters. And one policy maker, Robert McTeer, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, reflected that caution in an interview yesterday.
"Sooner or later, as the economy gathers momentum and gets stronger, an adjustment will have to be made" in rates, he said. "But I'm in no hurry," Mr. McTeer told Bloomberg News while attending a forum in Prague.
The surge in consumer confidence this month reflected a growing impression among Americans that unemployment had stopped rising and layoffs were less of a threat, said Lynn Franco, director of the consumer research center at the Conference Board, a private research firm. After dipping slightly, to 95, in February, the confidence index jumped to 110.2, its highest level since last August.
A similar surge in confidence, for roughly the same reasons, showed up in preliminary data for March released earlier this month by the University of Michigan. 
New orders for manufactured durable goods rose in February by $2.7 billion, or 1.5 percent, to $179.4 billion, the Commerce Department reported. This was the third consecutive monthly increase. But in analyzing these numbers, most economists exclude aircraft and ships; because of their huge cost, they can make durable goods orders vary sharply month to month.
Excluding transportation, new orders fell 1.3 percent, to $124.1 billion, and the increase in January turned out to be considerably smaller than originally announced. The greatest strength last month was in orders for military equipment, a big item in increased government spending. A surge in government spending, from the federal level on down, explains, along with consumer spending, why the economy has performed so much better in recent months than forecasters had expected. 
When it comes to capital spending by business, no category serves as more significant a barometer than the category of orders for computers and electronic equipment.
Investment in such equipment was a huge source of economic growth in the late 1990's. It then plunged, helping to produce the recession. Now economists, awaiting a turnaround, drew some encouragement from the February numbers.
"While investment in electronic gear is not yet a source of strength, adding to economic growth, it is no longer a constraint on the economy, as it was all of last year," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy .com, a forecasting and data gathering service.
Orders for electronic gear fell slightly in February, to $33.62 billion from $34.44 billion in January. But in fits and starts, these orders have risen steadily from the September low of $29.31 billion, and many economists have concluded that capital spending, having passed its worst days, is showing signs of revival.
The durable goods report also shed light on inventories. For months, companies have been selling from their stockpiles, and their reluctance to reorder merchandise helped cause the recession that started last March. The hope is that a rush to replenish inventories will produce a surge in economic growth this spring, after which growth will settle back to a moderate pace.
Business inventories are tracked in the durable goods report, and they declined 0.5 percent in February after falling 0.9 percent in January. The slowing decline suggests that reordering is taking place, said James Glassman, a senior economist at J. P. Morgan Chase, "but the reordering is not yet keeping pace with consumer spending."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Confidence"Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100. March: 110.2Feb.: 95.0Jan.: 97.8 Graph tracks figures from October 2000 to March 2002.(Sources: Conference Board, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); RECESSION (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); DEFENSE ORDERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%); LAYOFFS (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (67%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



690 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Pricing the Poor Out of College 

 BODY:
Tens of millions of Americans have used college to propel themselves out of poverty. This road to upward mobility has been, unfortunately, narrowed in recent years by changes in aid programs that focus more on middle- and upper-income students. Poor and working-class students have considerably more access to college today than 30 years ago, thanks in particular to federal Pell grants, which provide up to $4,000 a year in tuition aid. Even so, enrollment data show startling differences in college attendance rates for high-income and low-income students with roughly comparable academic abilities. 
 In a recent report, the economists Michael S. McPherson and Morton Owen Schapiro pointed out that only about 5 percent of high-achievement, high-income students fail to enroll in college. The non-entry rate for high-achievement, low-income students is about 25 percent. 
 Most low-income students attend high schools that lack a sophisticated guidance program to help students apply to college. Poorer students tend to get scared off by the price of college, particularly if they are unaware of aid programs. But even savvier students are often shocked by the tuition at state and private colleges, which has soared over the last 10 years.
The Pell grant program has failed to keep pace with rising costs. At the same time, federal and state tax credit and scholarship programs have begun to be directed at higher-income students, whose parents are more politically powerful. By some estimates, the federal government over the last decade has spent $10 in college aid for upper-income students for every dollar spent on low-income families. The two federal college tax credit programs passed during the Clinton years apply to families that earn up to $100,000 a year. In addition, many colleges now use "merit" scholarships -- offering aid based on grades and test scores rather than need -- that further skew the picture. 
The issue of student need came into the news recently when Brown University became the last Ivy League school to adopt a "need-blind" admissions policy, meaning that it accepts students without taking into account their ability to pay and then provides them with a combination of loans and scholarships. The move was welcome, but in truth it affects only a small number of students. 
In addition, a recent study found that schools with need-blind policies actually have fewer poor and working-class students. The private liberal arts colleges that have the most students with incomes low enough to qualify for Pell grants are Mount Holyoke and Smith. Neither has a need-blind admission policy, but both have historically taken it upon themselves to seek out first-generation college students as well as women who are returning to school after motherhood or careers.
These examples show that elite schools can preserve broad access if they wish to. But nothing that happens in the Ivy League can compensate for a national college system that is directing more and more of its resources at middle- and upper-income students. If this pattern is not arrested -- and quickly -- the country will find itself back at that unpleasant juncture in history when colleges were mainly the preserve of a well-heeled elite. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (95%); POOR POPULATION (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FAMILY (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDITORIALS; FINANCES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



691 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: GROUND ZERO; 
Years of Work Underground Before Steel Reaches Skyward

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Nothing will be built above ground for several years at the site of the World Trade Center because of the extensive underground construction that must be completed first, the chairman of the group overseeing the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan said yesterday. 
 John C. Whitehead, the chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the joint city-state agency in charge of planning and coordinating the redevelopment projects, also said that while a conceptual outline of the effort would be released within about a month, an overall master plan for rebuilding the trade center site and redeveloping parts of the rest of Lower Manhattan would not emerge for some time. 
 Rather than publish a single master plan, the development corporation will lay out details of major components of its building proposals in a yearlong series of publications beginning in May, corporation officials said yesterday. Those publications will focus on individual subjects, like transportation, residential and commercial development, and the attraction of arts and cultural institutions. 
With work on the recovery of victims and the cleanup of the site nearing an end, Mr. Whitehead cautioned against expecting that evidence of the rebuilding effort would be as tangible as the rapidly diminishing pile of rubble and the deepening pit that have been hallmarks of the recovery effort.
"People will have to be patient about that, because nothing can be built yet on the surface of the site itself, the 16 acres, for several years," he said.
When building begins, work must first be completed below ground. This will include rebuilding not only the subway and PATH train systems that will be part of a new transportation network, but whatever retail or other commercial space will exist in the six stories of underground space.
Only after that work is completed will any structural steel appear above ground, Mr. Whitehead said. 
"You have to know what is going to be in the six floors of the 16-acre site underground before you can plan what is going to be above ground," he said, addressing a crowd of more than 900 people at a breakfast meeting sponsored by Crain's New York Business, a weekly magazine. "And yet people are very eager to know what is above ground because it's what they're going to see."
Near the area known as ground zero, however, construction is likely to be visible on the replacement of 7 World Trade Center later this year. 
Mr. Whitehead played down previous reports of a disagreement between the development corporation and Gov. George E. Pataki or Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg over how quickly Larry A. Silverstein, the developer with rights to the ground zero site, should be allowed to begin construction on that building.
Mr. Silverstein, who hopes to begin building by midyear, has completed a plan for an office tower with 1.5 million square feet of commercial space, Mr. Whitehead said.
Other details are likely to be contained in the rebuilding plans that will begin to emerge from the development corporation in the coming weeks, agency officials said.
The guiding principles to be released next month will be based on comments that have come from the advisory committees set up by the corporation. Those committees, organized according to constituencies including victims' families, downtown residents, small businesses and large companies, have been meeting over the last two months.
After the corporation's board adopts the guiding principles, its planners will develop its yearlong series of publications.
The first publication, scheduled for May, will look at the current state of the site and what actions are needed to restore essential services like mass transit and utilities, officials said. The second, set for June, will focus on a regional transportation center, including subway and commuter rail lines, and will include cost estimates for those projects. 
One publication will deal specifically with the selection of a site for a permanent memorial to the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks.
The public will be asked to comment on the proposals before they are approved. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); HIJACKING (79%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); TRENDS (72%); TERRORISM (67%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) WYATT, EDWARD; WHITEHEAD, JOHN C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



692 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: City Where Visitors Never Sleep; 
Trenton's New Hotel May Wake Up Its Downtown

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 26 

 BODY:
The Quaker Oats Company in Chicago asked about having a shareholders meeting here a few years ago, and Sally Lane was the one who had to answer with the truth: that would not be possible. Trenton had no hotel.
 A few days later, she recalled, "They called back, and they said, 'the C.E.O. wants to make sure he heard this right.' " 
 Ms. Lane, director of the hopefully named Trenton Convention and Visitors Bureau, has had to explain to people for years that they cannot actually have conventions here. Mayor Douglas H. Palmer, embarrassed when his friends in the United States Conference of Mayors asked about visiting, simply told them that they would have a hard time finding a room. 
But those days are over. Next week, Trenton, like the other 49 state capitals, will have a hotel, its first in 16 years, and not just a hotel but a Marriott. And not just a Marriott, but an anchor for a downtown that yearns for the return of private enterprise and a little respect.
"It'll change the entire image of our city," said Shelley M. Zeiger, a Trenton businessman who courted hotel investors for years. Mr. Zeiger plans to be the second to register when the hotel opens Tuesday. Mayor Palmer will be the first.
Trenton is a small city, 85,000 people in eight square miles engulfed by a landscape of the new and the outsized: McMansions, S.U.V.'s and malls and big-box clusters that sponge up the area's considerable disposable income.
Trenton has been left with no movie theater, no general bookstore, and no department store. The downtown Dunkin Donuts closes by 4. That's 4 in the afternoon.
But Trenton is still a city, loved as no agglomeration of office parks can be. It has a past, a certain tattered chic and a smattering of new restaurants and cafes. Since the Capitol and government offices employing more than 20,000 people are housed here, Trenton's leaders have long been sure that some visitors must want to stay overnight.
A result of years of plans, negotiations and precarious bond-floating is the 197-room Lafayette Yard Marriott Conference Hotel. It is shouting distance from the streets where American and British troops clashed in 1776 and next to the War Memorial, an ornate auditorium restored in a recent wave of refurbishing of public buildings near the State House.
"People still don't believe it," said Mr. Zeiger, who runs an import-export business. "I'm getting calls now from developers and people from chain stores. Once they see the crowds and the enthusiasm, they'll come."
As he spoke, he was stepping around workmen in the hotel lobby, which was already outfitted with beige-on-beige striped wallpaper and awaiting its dark-wood molding. He added, brightly, that the Russian ambassador was coming to the opening.
"It was very awkward for me to bring in high-ranking business people from other countries," he said, "and put them in Princeton or Pennsylvania."
The nearest hotel, a Holiday Inn Express, is in Morrisville, Pa., across the bridge with the neon announcement "Trenton Makes the World Takes." Route 1 north of Trenton has miles of hotels. And 35 miles down I-95, Philadelphia has 15,400 hotel rooms.
Trenton did have a motel, a few blocks from the State House, until recently, though it was used mostly by longer-term residents, many of whom left their doors open and smoked marijuana while watching daytime television. Another motel survives on the city's fringes.
At the new Marriott, John F. Yake, the sales manager, said there had been a relative clamor of bookings for reunions, weddings and bar mitzvahs. 
It is apparent that those who ask for Trenton truly want Trenton. The general manager, Dwane Martin, puts it in terms of the "capture ratio," or the percentage of people making inquiries who end up booking events or rooms. While the national average is 45 to 50 percent, he said, here it is 85 to 90 percent.
The city's last hotel was a businesslike 15-story building, the Capitol Plaza, once a Holiday Inn, down the street from the State House, which closed in 1986. But the hotels of fondest memory were the Stacy-Trent and the Hotel Hildebrecht, grand in the 1920's and 1930's and victims of a modernization campaign after the urban riots of the 1960's.
As the state remade the downtown, it razed town houses and elegant if faded commercial buildings, replacing them with government-issue cement architecture. Each building was used by hundreds of workers, but each would empty by dark.
Stores emptied, too. Mr. Yake, 41, remembers being taken as a child to Sears, where he was allowed to play on the escalators. Sears was displaced by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
Mayor Palmer, elected in 1990, viewed the hotel as the third point in a triangle that included a minor-league ballpark, opened in 1994, and an arena built five years later. Both have "Mercer County," not "Trenton," in their names.
Mr. Palmer maintains a workable but tepid relationship with state government.
"The state workers, well, God bless 'em," he said, "but their incomes and attitudes are a little different from people who work in the private sector. People in the private sector work in the evenings and on weekends. They tend not to go home at 4:30. That's what you need."
Jamie Griswold, the owner of a downtown business, Cafe Ole, who recently started a monthly newspaper called The Downtowner, is the sort of person Mr. Palmer was referring to.
Mr. Griswold opened his cafe here five years ago because it was the only place he could afford. But by last fall he was not only publishing The Downtowner but helping organize First Fridays, the first Friday evening of each month, when restaurants stay open and vendors and artists set up on the street.
Mr. Griswold said he was tired of waiting for people who said they were waiting for the hotel to open. 
"Some people think you have to have your best clothes on before you go to the party," he said. "Well, sometimes you've just got to go to the party."
Mr. Griswold says houses in Trenton's leafier neighborhoods are hard to come by -- and he should know, because he is looking for one -- but economically, the city is far behind its suburbs. In the 1990 census, the last available measure, the city's median household income was $25,719. In neighboring Lawrence Township it was $51,035, and in Princeton Township, $62,288.
Given the perverse relationship of wealth to property taxes, Trenton residents pay $3.76 per $100 of assessed valuation, while in Princeton the rate is $2.16.
James W. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, said Trenton's recent public developments -- the arena, the ballpark, all the state buildings -- meant that the city "has been lagging farther and farther behind because it hasn't been securing any taxable new development."
As for expectations invested in one hotel, Mr. Hughes said, "It's kind of unfair to put that level of burden on one little property."
Still, Trenton is taking a step toward normalcy, toward acting like the other state capitals. Even the smallest, Montpelier, Vt. (population 8,300), has three downtown hotels. Dover, Del. (32,000), has about 15. Jefferson City, Mo. (37,000), has 13.
Beth Carmichael, the director of the Convention and Visitors Bureau in Jefferson City, found it hard to believe, when told during a telephone interview, that Trenton was only now getting its own hotel. But after a pause, Ms. Carmichael wished the city well: "Well, congratulations to Trenton, New Jersey. Jefferson City sends its congratulations."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A front view of the 197-room Lafayette Yard Marriott Conference Hotel, under construction next to the War Memorial, near the State House in Trenton. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); An old postcard, right, showed the once-grand Stacy-Trent. The same area as it looks now is above, with office buildings, after a modernization campaign since the 1960's. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B1) Map of New Jersey highlighting Trenton: A new hotel will enable New Jersey's capital to house visitors. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); RETAILERS (63%); BOOKSTORES (63%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); ARMED FORCES (50%) HOTELS AND MOTELS 

COMPANY: QUAKER OATS CO (93%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (85%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%) MARRIOTT HOTELS 

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (85%); DNKN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (93%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%)

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (96%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) TRENTON (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



693 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Whether It's State or Local, Somebody Has to Raise Taxes 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 26 

 BODY:
The biggest applause line in Gov. James E. McGreevey's budget address today was a kind of New Jersey cheer: "I will not raise our income taxes. I will not raise our sales taxes."
 But the applause and the debate that will follow about how to slice up $23.6 billion are, to many taxpayers, beside the point. The 566 towns and cities in New Jersey will see plenty of tax increases. 
 New Jersey has the highest property taxes per capita in the nation. (The state with the second highest, New Hampshire, which has no income tax or sales tax, isn't even close.)
Local government in New Jersey is hugely expensive. And wherever the state refuses to provide -- by freezing state aid to school districts, for example -- someone else must.
Republicans protest that Mr. McGreevey's proposed freeze on municipal aid will force an increase in local property taxes, just as Democrats complained in the 1990's that Gov. Christie Whitman's popular cuts in the income tax did. 
"He said he didn't want to balance the budget on the backs of middle-class families," John O. Bennett, the Republican Senate president, said of Mr. McGreevey. "But that's exactly what he's doing. He's shifting the cost to local taxpayers."
Senator Anthony Bucco, a Republican leader in the Senate, said, "We're trying to get money into the schools," and promised that his half of the evenly divided State Senate would back an increase in state aid for 2003. 
The governor had already told local officials not to expect any increase in state aid. 
"They're not going to be surprised," said William G. Dressel Jr., the director of the New Jersey State League of Municipalities. "But they're going to be taking the political heat." 
Many other states are taking Mr. McGreevey's approach, said Arturo Perez, a budget analyst for the National Conference of State Legislatures -- going to great lengths to avoid raising income taxes for the sake of keeping "no-new-taxes" pledges made before the recession embarrassed them.
But other states do not rely so heavily already on property taxes. In New Jersey, local taxes account for almost half of the state's total revenue. The national average, Mr. Perez said, is 29 percent. 
And because a property tax is more regressive than an income tax, the state's tax system as a whole becomes more regressive as the local share of the burden grows.
New Jersey taxpayers, like taxpayers in general, do not seem to be more accepting of progressive than regressive taxes. The income tax was so hated that it nearly cost Gov. Brendan T. Byrne his office when he initiated it, and it did cost Gov. Jim Florio his office when he increased it. 
So while income taxes have risen -- at $856 per capita, New Jersey ranks 13th among the states -- property taxes have risen faster. From 1993, when Governor Whitman took office, to 2000, they rose by 28 percent. 
New Jersey's average property tax burden per capita was $1,744 in 1998, the last year for which figures are available. It was followed by New Hampshire, at $1,545; Connecticut, at $1,533; and New York, at $1,345. The national average was $851. 
The cost of schools, which accounts for about 70 percent of the property tax burden, is also growing faster than inflation. And the freeze in state aid is distressing at all levels: the poorer urban districts depend heavily on the aid, and many suburban districts have seen huge enrollment increases in the last few years. 
Reducing New Jersey's reliance on property taxes is a goal recited regularly by good-government groups and politicians of all philosophical views. But it would require raising some other taxes, at the least, and possibly overhauling the state tax or school-finance system. 
Senator Bucco said this morning that that fight is "for another day." And clearly most legislators agreed today, as they were concentrated on threats to their own districts and favored budget lines. 
But in Trenton, fundamental problems in the tax system are always for another day -- so much so that many legislators, conceding that rewriting the tax laws is politically too dangerous for them, are proposing a constitutional convention to take on property tax reform.
"I don't see the political will here," Mr. Dressel, of the state league of municipalities, said in the din of the Assembly chamber, just after Mr. McGreevey's speech. 
The governor had just invoked, in a list of citizens he met while campaigning, a "grandfather in Gloucester County" who "worries about how he will pay his property taxes" if his wife's illness wipes out their savings. 
Mr. McGreevey did not otherwise discuss rising property taxes. That is a fight for another day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX INCREASES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); FAMILY (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%) TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



694 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Budget Plan Cuts Aid To Avert Worst Shortfall in U.S. 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 26 

 BODY:
After warning for months that New Jersey faces the worst budget crisis in the nation, Gov. James E. McGreevey unveiled a $23.6 billion spending plan today that sought to avert a $5 billion budget shortfall by cutting aid to parks and universities, increasing cigarette taxes and using some one-time measures to increase revenues.
 Mr. McGreevey, who was elected after pledging not to raise taxes and to reduce state borrowing, is proposing to sell $1.1 billion in bonds against the state's portion of the tobacco settlement and to cancel an increase in the property tax rebate that would have cost the state more than $149 million. He has also ordered the treasury to revise the state's corporate tax code, which will result in major companies' paying $500 million a year more to the state. 
 While Mr. McGreevey said the lagging economy had forced him to sacrifice many of the spending plans he had espoused during his campaign last fall, he expressed relief that he had not had to resort to large-scale layoffs or increases in the broad-based taxes on sales and income. 
But Republicans and many local government officials warned today that Mr. McGreevey's budget for the 2003 fiscal year, which begins July 1, only delayed the pain, and would lead to increases in New Jersey's already high property taxes.
Like many other states, New Jersey is reeling from the recession, but its problems have been compounded by the Sept. 11 attack and a last-minute spending spree last year by the acting governor and legislative leaders. Mr. McGreevey said that without his proposed spending cuts and tax increases, New Jersey would be facing a $5.3 billion shortfall for 2003, more than 20 percent of the total budget. No state has ever had a deficit as high on a percentage basis.
"It is my job to say to the citizens, 'This is what we can do with the resources we have,' " Mr. McGreevey said. "I cannot tell you that this budget meets every need or solves every problem. But I believe it will put us on the right path, because I believe it was driven by the right priorities."
Mr. McGreevey's budget plan calls for an across-the-board 5 percent cut for all state departments and reduces $133 million in financing for capital projects involving roads, buildings and dams. It also eliminates $10 million for maintenance in state parks and reduces aid to universities by $64.3 million. 
Mr. McGreevey's proposal would merely freeze aid to municipalities and local school districts. But local officials, and Republicans in the State Legislature, warn that the freeze is likely to have a substantial impact on homeowners by spurring property tax increases, according to Senator Joseph Kyrillos Jr., the state Republican chairman. 
Others predicted that the change in the corporate business taxes could hurt the state's economy. The governor cast the issue as a matter of tax equity, asserting that 30 of the state's 50 largest corporations paid only $200 a year each in taxes. But business leaders said Mr. McGreevey's attempt to squeeze more tax money out of businesses could drive some employers out of New Jersey.
"People are going to lose their jobs because of this," said Philip Kirschner, executive vice president of the New Jersey Business and Industry Association. "People are going to get their hours cut." 
In shaping his budget plan, Mr. McGreevey was mindful that the $2.8 billion tax increase imposed in 1990 by the budget of the state's last Democratic governor, Jim Florio, angered voters so much that it cost Democrats control of the governor's office and both houses of the Legislature. Even Republicans praise the way the governor has managed expectations by incessantly reminding the public of the depth of the budget problem, and that he inherited the deficit from his predecessors. 
Senator Barbara Buono, a Democrat from Edison, praised the spending restraint in Mr. McGreevey's plan, saying it would allow Democrats to portray themselves as the party of fiscal responsibility. Mr. McGreevey's budget plan calls for a 1.5 percent increase in spending; the state's 2002 budget included 8.4 percent more spending than in the previous year. 
"During the past eight years, the average increase in spending was 7 percent," Senator Buono said. "So I think it's very positive that the governor is trying to make the state live within its means again." 
But Republicans said it was hypocritical of Mr. McGreevey, who had repeatedly criticized his Republican predecessors for tripling the state's debt during the 1990's, to try to balance his budget by borrowing against the tobacco settlement. 
"Jim McGreevey promised he would change the process New Jersey uses to come up with its budgets," said Senator Leonard Lance, a Republican of Hunterdon. "But by borrowing against the tobacco money, he's unfortunately doing the same thing he himself has criticized." 
In addition to the tobacco bonds, the budget also depends on several mechanisms likely to draw criticism. Mr. McGreevey wants to tap a $25 million surplus in the medical malpractice insurance fund, and he projects an extra $400 million in revenue by changing the way the state handles unclaimed property and reformulating its retirees' medical benefits fund. 
The budget would also divert $325 million in unemployment insurance contributions to pay for charity care, a move that would require legislative approval.
Mr. McGreevey's spending plan also assumes that the federal government will provide nearly $500 million for Medicaid and prescription plans for the elderly -- money that has not yet been committed. 
Mr. McGreevey said he tried to find savings by making state government more efficient. His plan calls for merging the authorities that operate the New Jersey Turnpike, Garden State Parkway and Atlantic City Expressway, which will probably save several million dollars a year. 
He also cut financing to the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority to $5 million from $11 million, calling it "a first step toward getting our state out of the sports business."
Other reductions were based Mr. McGreevey's assessment of his constituents' economic needs. Mr. McGreevey would save $48 million by removing families with incomes of more than $200,000 a year from the New Jersey Saver property tax rebate program.
But he preserved the tax cuts for low- and middle-income families, and expanded the Homestead rebate plan, which provides property tax rebates to the elderly. 
 The governor's plan also includes several new spending efforts: $66 million for antiterrorism measures, $100 million for a new state police headquarters and training site and $28 million for a new cancer research center.
 "This is not the budget I wanted to submit," Mr. McGreevey said. "It does not and unfortunately cannot reflect all of my priorities. But as governor it is my job to hold the line."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. James E. McGreevey announced a plan to the State Legislature yesterday to avert a $5 billion shortfall.; State Senators Francis J. Blee, left, and Bill Gormley, both Republicans, listening to the budget proposal. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); RECESSION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SMOKING (77%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); STATE PARKS (77%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); SCHOOL BONDS (76%); BONDS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); LITIGATION (70%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TAXATION; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PROPERTY TAXES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; SALES TAX; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

PERSON: MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV); KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



695 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Report on Social Security Adds 3 Years to Fund's Life 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26 

 BODY:
The financial outlook for Social Security and Medicare improved in the last year, despite the recession, the Bush administration said today.
 The main reason for the improvement, it said, was an increase in the anticipated growth in the productivity of American workers in the coming decade and in the next 75 years. 
 Still, the administration said Congress ought to shore up both programs before baby boomers reach retirement age. Baby boomers, the 76 million people born from 1946 to 1964, will reach 65 in the years from 2011 to 2029. 
With no change in current law, the government now estimates that the Social Security trust fund will run out of money in 2041, three years later than estimated in last year's report.
Likewise, assuming a continuation of current law, the government said today that Medicare's hospital insurance trust fund would run out of money in 2030, one year later than predicted in 2001.
"The projected near-term financial conditions of the trust funds have improved slightly since last year's reports," said Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill. But he insisted, "This reprieve provides little comfort, as the programs continue to face substantial financial challenges in the not-too-distant future that need to be addressed at the earliest opportunity."
President Bush has proposed fundamental changes in Social Security and Medicare, but politicians said it would be difficult to muster a sense of urgency when the problem seemed, for now, to be receding.
Representative Robert T. Matsui of California, the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security, said the report on that program showed it was facing a challenge, but not a crisis. The problem, he said, is that after the trust fund is exhausted in 2041, four decades from now, Social Security will be able to pay only three-fourths of the promised benefits.
"Those who claim that the system is collapsing are misleading the public," Mr. Matsui said. "They are promoting privatization plans that would actually create a crisis by draining trillions of dollars from the trust fund."
Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal research organization, said: "There's certainly no imminent problem here. People have to ask if there is any reason Congress should trouble itself with restructuring the program when it's sounder than it's ever been in five decades."
But Dick Armey, the Texas Republican who is majority leader of the House, said: "Today's report offers little comfort to those who argue that Social Security is structurally sound and needs only minor adjustments. While the short-term outlook has improved a little, the long-term outlook is the same. Social Security is in serious financial trouble."
Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., the Florida Republican who is chairman of the Social Security subcommittee, said Congress and the public must not be complacent. In 2017, he said, "the Social Security program will begin running a cash deficit" as income falls short of spending. 
Today's reports were issued by the six trustees of Social Security and Medicare: Mr. O'Neill, the secretaries of labor and health and human services, the Social Security commissioner and two university economists who represent the public.
The reports are widely viewed as an authoritative assessment of the financial condition of Social Security and Medicare, a reference point for all debate on the programs in Congress and in political campaigns.
While President Bush has proposed changes in Social Security and Medicare, he has not put much pressure on Congress to act on his proposals.
Mr. Bush wants to let younger workers invest some of their Social Security payroll taxes in the stock market, and he wants to give private health plans a larger role in Medicare, in the belief that they could help control costs. 
Republican members of Congress have embraced the concept of individual investment accounts, but mindful of the political risks and technical complexity of such changes, they have not rushed to pass legislation. For their part, Democrats say they want to avoid major changes in the structure of Social Security, and they would use some of the expected federal budget surplus if more money is needed to help pay benefits in future years.
Lawmakers of both parties have said they want to add prescription drug benefits to Medicare and increase payments to doctors and other health care providers. But they do not claim any popular mandate for changes that would slow the growth of Medicare.
Secretary O'Neill enthusiastically endorsed the slight increase in the trustees' estimate of future productivity, which measures the amount of output for each hour of work. He said the trustees might "have reason to raise productivity assumptions again" in a couple of years. 
Mr. O'Neill said he was amazed that productivity grew at an annual rate of 5.2 percent from October to December of last year, "in the midst of an economic slowdown." But he said that productivity growth alone could not solve the problems of Social Security and Medicare.
The report on Medicare said the hospital insurance trust spent $143.4 billion last year, up 9.4 percent from the previous year. But it took in $174.6 billion, so the balance grew by more than $31 billion "despite a slowing economy," the report said.
Spending from a separate trust fund that pays doctors and laboratories rose last year by 12 percent, to $101.4 billion. The trustees foresee smaller increases averaging less than 5 percent a year from 2001 to 2004, in part because, under current law, Medicare is reducing the fees paid for each physician service.
The administration predicts that Medicare costs will grow much faster than the economy in coming years, and it says this trend is cause for "great concern." The increased costs may require beneficiaries to pay higher premiums and co-payments, the report said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICARE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); RETIREMENT AGE (72%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICARE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY 

COMPANY: BAKER CO INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (63%)

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



696 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: HIGHLIGHTS; 
McGreevey's Plan

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Following are highlights of Gov. James E. McGreevey's proposed $23.6 billion budget for the 2002-03 fiscal year, which starts on July 1: 
 *Appropriates $23.6 billion, an increase of 1.5 percent from the $23.3 billion expected to be spent in the fiscal year ending June 30. 
 *Includes $1.9 billion from the corporate business tax, a 66 percent increase generated from changing the tax's structure.
*Plans for $6.2 billion in sales tax revenues, up 4.6 percent from the previous fiscal year.
*Includes $7.8 billion in income tax revenues, a 6.7 percent increase from the previous year.
*Proposes borrowing $1.1 billion against New Jersey's share of the national tobacco settlement.
*Diverts $325 million from a fund that the state holds in reserve to cover unemployment insurance costs.
*Includes a 50-cent increase in the cigarette tax, to $1.30 a pack from 80 cents, estimated to generate $200 million.
*Provides for $76 million in savings generated by an early retirement program for state employees and salary freezes for managers and cabinet employees.
*Caps eligibility for the New Jersey Saver tax rebate program to applicants with incomes of less than $200,000. The estimated $48 million in saving will go toward reducing state debt.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); SALES TAX (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INCOME TAX (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (73%); TAX INCREASES (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (53%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; SALES TAX; SMOKING AND TOBACCO 

PERSON: MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



697 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1791 words

HEADLINE: Answering '800' Calls, Extra Income but NoSecurity 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE 

 BODY:
For all her skill in designing Web sites, Alicia Suarez made only $5,000 last year from 10 clients. So she did what many women here do to make ends meet -- she took a job in a call center, on the answering end of the "800" numbers that Americans dial so often to deal with the companies that sell to them.
 "This may not be the best job, but in Albuquerque, it is better than the last job I had, waitressing tables," said Ms. Suarez, who is 21 and earns $9.50 an hour helping frustrated callers from around the country use Earthlink, an Internet service. 
 Call centers like the one that employs Ms. Suarez are proliferating, adding jobs at a faster pace than any other major occupation. At least 3.5 million people and perhaps as many as 6 million work in call centers, which are increasingly concentrated in lower-wage cities like Albuquerque, making this work force roughly as numerous as the nation's truck drivers, assembly line workers or public-school teachers. 
The centers offer fresh opportunity and flexibility. They draw employees mainly from the 30 million women who, like Ms. Suarez, have a high school degree and a year or two of college. Many are second earners in their families, helping to anchor their households in the middle class despite the middling pay.
But the centers also exemplify a trend in today's service economy that has held down wages of many middle- and lower-income workers. Unlike factories, the centers can be relocated easily to lower-wage cities, or even overseas. All it takes is to ship the computers and communications gear somewhere else. So even as the economy boomed in the late 1990's, surveys show that pay scales held steady at $7 to $14 an hour at most of the nation's 60,000 or more call centers. And the people in the jobs can never feel secure.
Most centers "make a priority of holding down labor costs, and as these jobs multiply, a large mass of women has become more vulnerable to layoffs and to what I would call plant closings," Rose Batt, a labor economist at Cornell University, said.
In part because of the growth of call centers, total employment of women has resisted the recession, declining less since 2000 than for men, who were particularly hard hit by the slump in manufacturing. Still, if the surge in call center jobs has helped to sustain total employment, the women filling the jobs change frequently as the centers are relocated, or shrunk in one city and expanded in another. Contracting out the work has also become increasingly popular.
That is what Earthlink has done, shrinking its call center staff and outsourcing the work to ClientLogic, which hired Ms. Suarez a year ago. In part because of brisk Earthlink business, ClientLogic is expanding here to 780 workers from 600.
"We don't have any shortage of job applicants," said Caroline Jones, director of ClientLogic's operation here. As she spoke, five people in the lobby were filling out job applications and returning them to a security guard at a reception desk. Through the day, the lobby was rarely without applicants.
Albuquerque, population 722,000, is high on the list of cities benefiting from the call center migration. Eighteen companies have opened centers here since 1993, bringing the total to 22, not counting 2 that closed recently, laying off 530 people. Despite the surge, the pay scale, matching the national range, has barely risen since the mid-1990's.
Employment has climbed to 12,730 people, mostly in the last four years. That is 3.3 percent of Albuquerque's work force, up from under 1 percent in 1993. Most are like Ms. Suarez, in need of income but unable to find better-paying alternatives as bank tellers, teachers, office managers or government clerks.
Many operators at call centers are single mothers, but the largest percentage, according to surveys, are married women seeking a second income for the household. They are drawn from local job pools like the thousands of families here attached to Kirtland Air Force Base, Sandia National Laboratory and a big Intel computer chip factory.
"A lot of times, dependent spouses do not show up in labor force data, but quite frankly they are a hidden treasure," said James Beatty, owner of NCS International, which scouts sites for the constantly migrating call centers. "The centers quite consciously locate" near these dependent spouses.
Across the nation, call centers are similarly organized. Equipped with telephone headsets and computers and seated in partitioned cubicles in huge rooms, the operators handle every manner of customer request, not only in American cities but increasingly abroad. New Yorkers calling an "800" number with a question about the Road Runner Internet service of Time Warner Cable are as likely to get an operator in Canada as in the United States. E-mail and Internet communications are gradually adding new twists at call centers.
Despite the growing presence of call center workers, the Labor Department has counted only some of them: 1.9 million customer service agents in 2000 and 462,000 telemarketers, the people who call during dinner with sales pitches. The rest are hidden in other classifications, as technical support personnel (Ms. Suarez), reservation clerks, temporary workers, bill collectors, mortgage brokers, 401(k) administrators or catalog order takers. According to industry estimates at least 3.5 million people work at call centers; three out of four are women. 
The 3.5 million represents 2.6 percent of the nation's work force. The total is probably higher, perhaps as many as 6 million, according to estimates cited by Call Center Magazine, including one estimate from Datamonitor, a research firm. In contrast, the nation has 4.2 million production workers and 5.5 million teachers from preschool through high school. The only clearly larger job categories are retail sales and food preparation. 
As manufacturing jobs decline, call centers are rising -- and borrowing industrial practices from the factories. Professor Batt described the process as the "mechanization of the service sector."
"Companies have tried to routinize these jobs, making them as similar as possible to the old assembly line work where you left your mind at home and tightened bolts all day," she said. The typical call center operator averages 100 calls a day, or one every 4.8 minutes over eight hours. 
Advances in technology also push them toward an assembly line pace. Responding to questions about credit card balances or payment plans or alternative rates to fly from New York to San Francisco, the operators pull up information that can often be read like a script.
But in another sense, the work escapes routine. "The social skills of call center operators have to be polished to absorb constant complaints from customers without a peep," Professor Batt said, "and their knowledge of the product or service they are handling has to be fairly sophisticated."
The tensions from this mix are evident at Citibank's two-story call center built five years ago on the city's outskirts. The sandstone-colored concrete blends with the desert that stretches behind the building toward the mountains. Inside, the huge room in which 1,350 operators work is colorful and homey. 
Stuffed animals, family photos, flowers, flags, even an ivy vine draped over a computer, decorate the work areas. The goal, in the words of Edward J. Consroe, who runs the call center, is to make the cubicles seem like home for the women who make up 75 percent of the work force. Still, the turnover rate, while low by call center standards, is 25 percent annually.
June Fuentes, 33, a mother of five, with two years of community college, has been a call center operator for Citibank for two years, after leaving a lower-paying teaching job. "I wanted a different sort of work," she said, "and I saw Citi's ad."
Her wage has risen to $11.23 an hour, which adds $23,000 a year to the $58,000 salary of her husband, John, an engineer's assistant at Sandia. He gets the children off to school in the morning, Ms. Fuentes says, and she cares for them in the afternoon, having been assigned to a 6:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. shift by an employer eager to accommodate the dual role of motherhood and work for employees, married and single.
Rather than raise wages, managers lure workers with flexible hours and other benefits, what Mr. Consroe calls soft labor costs. Citi, for example, offers health insurance, limited child care support, tuition reimbursement for post-high school study, a librarylike learning center and a well-equipped exercise room that Mr. Consroe describes as a "wellness center used by 40 percent of the staff."
But the price for receiving these benefits is accepting an effective cap on wages and an unrelenting work routine. Ms. Fuentes is able to handle each caller in an average of three minutes, the company standard. She keeps up this pace for two-hour stretches, punctuated by 10-minute breaks and 30 minutes for lunch. For emergencies -- an ill child, for example -- there is 48 hours a year of "unplanned" time off. Beyond that, pay is docked. 
Reflecting a nationwide marketing trend, there is also pressure to sell, and small commissions for doing so. On one recent shift, Ms. Fuentes received a commission for persuading a woman calling about a credit card balance to let Citi debit her checking account -- for a fee -- in lieu of a mailed check. And by late morning, Ms. Fuentes had persuaded three customers to transfer a total of $16,233 in balances from other credit cards to their Citi account for the lure of a lower rate. 
At the call center here for Southwest Airlines, where employee turnover is a very low 4 percent, Michelle Romero, 29, an operator, credits in part a scheduling option that she describes as particularly friendly to mothers. Southwest, operating one of the few unionized centers, permits its 418 agents to "sell" hours among themselves. Ms. Romero, who had been a bank teller before coming to the call center in 1993, earns $13.09 an hour, or $27,000 annually. But she took home only $22,000 last year.
"I give away shifts to be home with my daughter," she said. "My mom usually takes care of her, but she'll be out of town next week, so I am selling that week." 
ClientLogic has the only call center in Albuquerque where the men outnumber the women, 6 to 4. That is typical of call centers that provide technical support for computers and software. But even here, the ratio is shifting. Among supervisors, women now outnumber men.
Ms. Suarez, who says her father, an industrial engineer, kindled her enthusiasm for computers, aspires to become a supervisor. Salary and bonuses would push her pay above $25,000 from less than $20,000 now.
"In New Mexico," she said, "that represents opportunity for women."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michelle Romero earns $13.09 an hour as a call center operator in Albuquerque for Southwest Airlines. She said a scheduling option at the center allows her to "sell" hours, making it easier to take care of her daughter. (Cary Herz for The New York Times)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); CALL CENTERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); OUTSOURCING (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); WOMEN (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); TRENDS (73%); CLOSINGS (72%); PLANT CLOSINGS (72%); TRUCK DRIVERS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); RELOCATIONS (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (52%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; WOMEN; WAGES AND SALARIES 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (94%) NEW MEXICO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



698 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Towns With Odd Jobs Galore Turn to Inmates 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: ZACHARY, La. 

 BODY:
For generations, convicts have made license plates or gone out, sometimes in chains, to clean roads and clear ditches. But in recent years struggling rural communities like this one have relied more and more on inmates to do jobs that public employees once did: tending cemeteries, cleaning courthouse restrooms, moving furniture, renovating municipal buildings and even running errands for the police. 
 In flat and timeworn Louisiana towns near the Mississippi around Zachary, crews from the Dixon Correctional Institute in nearby Jackson set up tables and tents for fairs and charity events, groom the grounds of Lions Clubs, make repairs at museums and string up Christmas lights on Main Street. In nearby Slaughter, they have replaced the metal roof on the municipal building and stripped and waxed floors at the First Baptist Church. At the elementary school, they dug a goldfish pond and planted azaleas. 
 Here in Zachary, a swampy town of 11,275 people, a group of inmates come into town with an unarmed guard about 20 days a month. They mow the baseball field and cemetery, and they have restored two historic Victorian homes. Now, a dozen inmates, called Crew 12, are laying a sidewalk for a museum that was once the town hall. 
In the last few years, the use of prisoners for manual labor has increased around the country, particularly in the South and Southwest where it not only fills the desperate demand for inexpensive laborers, but also helps prisons relieve overcrowding and supplement their budgets. 
A Justice Department survey showed that 124,000 inmates in state prisons, or 10.4 percent of the total state prison population, and 45,000 local inmates, or about 7 percent of those in jails nationally, were working off the premises in 2000, the most recent year for which figures were available. 
"There's more and more of it," said Carl Wicklund, executive director of the American Probation and Parole Association in Lexington, Ky. "The offender needs to be doing something to prepare himself for release and be seen repairing something broken in the community." 
Officials in California, Mississippi, Texas and Virginia, for example, say they are putting more inmates to work outside prison walls. Georgia, said Mike Light, spokesman for the State Department of Corrections, plans to double the number of prisoners doing community work. 
In Minnesota last year, 17,073 inmates in state prisons, almost twice the number of six years ago, were enrolled in "sentencing to service" programs in which they live in county jails and do local jobs. 
Oklahoma has more than 1,000 inmates assigned to local work centers around the state, mostly in western towns with waning populations. The Legislature is considering raising the 100-bed limit on the centers and letting drug offenders join the program. 
Not everyone agrees that the rise in inmate workers is an entirely positive trend.
"It's a way to get nasty work done for free," said Malcolm C. Young, executive director of the Sentencing Project, a research group in Washington.
But as a form of restorative justice, Mr. Young said, "it's doing something constructive and it gives something back to the community." 
In some state capitals, including Baton Rouge, La., prisoners maintain governors' mansions and do most of the cleaning and heavy lifting chores in state offices and museums. But it is in hundreds of small towns where they stand out most. 
In Louisiana, the economic downturn's effect on state and local budgets has been the driving force behind the use of prison labor. By employing inmates that the state pays 4 cents to 20 cents an hour, towns like Zachary can deliver many public services they would otherwise do without. 
In this part of the state, most workers come from Dixon, a medium security prison with 1,470 inmates. 
"I love it out here," said Timothy Holland, 27, a member of Crew 12 who was working on the sidewalk project.
Mr. Holland said he was sent to prison at age 20 for selling cocaine, was sentenced to 15 years and should be eligible for parole in two. 
"It's hard work," he said, "but you get a better peace of mind. You get adjusted back to society." 
The men have become a familiar part of Zachary, working from 8 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. about five days a week. 
Fears are few, largely because townspeople know that the inmates chosen for the assignments are nearing the ends of their sentences and are unlikely to do anything to jeopardize their release. The workers are carefully screened. Sex offenders are automatically ruled out. Instead of the meager wages, many take payment in "good time" reductions in their sentences. 
People gain satisfaction seeing inmates clean up their towns.
"Politically, people want to see inmates work," said John A. Womack, the mayor of Zachary. 
Corrections officials also argue that the programs help prepare inmates for life and work after they serve their time. "I think we have to accept the fact that people are going to be released," said James M. LeBlanc, the warden of Dixon. 
Nationwide, inmate labor sometimes arouses resentment from unions and local contractors. Towns around Dixon pay only for Crew 12's guard and for its transportation, which works out to $2.50 an hour for each man, or less than half the minimum wage, which is $5.15 an hour. In Slaughter, population 1,011, Mayor Barbara Bourgeois pays the state $2,500 a year for weekly visits from Crew 12. 
Mayor Womack of Zachary said that competent workers willing to do menial labor were hard to find. His most likely alternative to Crew 12, he said, would be Mexican migrants. 
Last year in Clinton, La., Sheriff Talmadge Bunch began a work-release program for state prisoners with six months to two years left in their jail time. Sheriff Bunch finds them jobs in private businesses that pay them $6 to $10 an hour. Participants live at the jail, but they wear whatever they want and pay taxes. Though they are driven to and from their jobs, they are left to work on their own, without a guard. 
Each inmate pays the sheriff half his wages up to $120 a week for room, board and transportation, and the state pays the sheriff $18.25 a day to keep him.
"It generates $600,000 a year for us," said Paul Perkins, the deputy sheriff -- more than twice what the East Feliciana Parish budget provides the Sheriff's Department. 
Officials of these towns cannot cite many cases of inmates' causing trouble, Mayor Womack said. The only unsettling episode occurred a year or two ago when a newly released work crew member asked a city employee for a ride home. The employee refused, so the former inmate found a solution in a city parking lot. Later, someone in New Orleans called the mayor's office. 
"They wanted to know if we were missing a city truck," Mr. Womack said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dixon Correctional Institute prisoners dig around a drainage structure for the Old Town Hall in Zachary, La. (Mark Saltz for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Dixon Correctional Institute inmates do plumbing work in Zachary, La. (Mark Saltz for The New York Times)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); PRISONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); PAROLE (77%); PROBATION (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TRENDS (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); CEMETERIES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); CHARITIES (55%); CHRISTMAS (55%) PRISONS AND PRISONERS; LOCAL GOVERNMENT; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) SOUTHERN STATES (US); SOUTHWESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



699 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8, 13

Arafat Won't Attend Arab Gathering in Beirut
Yasir Arafat said he would not attend an Arab summit meeting in Beirut, after Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel said he wanted the right to keep the Palestinian leader from returning to the West Bank. A1

Senior Arab officials said they would push ahead with a Saudi-proposed peace initiative at the Beirut meeting despite the absence of Mr. Arafat and Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. A13

India Passes Antiterror Bill
Parliament passed a broad measure that curbs some individual rights in an effort to avert terrorism. The action followed caustic debates during a rare session of both houses. A5

Cambodia Allows Resettlement
Cambodia agreed to let the United States resettle more than 900 ethnic minority asylum seekers from Vietnam despite objections by Hanoi. A8

More Killings of Reporters
The Committee to Protect Journalists reported that 37 journalists were killed worldwide as a direct result of their work in 2001, compared with 24 the year before. A8

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A10-12

Powerful Temblor Strikes Afghanistan
Officials in Kabul said they feared that there could be heavy casualties from an earthquake and aftershocks that razed a city and several villages in a remote northeastern area. A1

Girding for Spring
The Bush administration is concerned that the approach of warmer weather may signal a sharp rise in attacks on American and allied troops in Afghanistan by guerrillas thought to be regrouping in mountains along the Pakistan border. A10

Wider Role for G.I.'s Weighed
President Bush's envoy to Afghanistan suggested that American military forces might intervene in local conflicts in the absence of international troops stationed in the country. A10

Ex-King Sought U.S. Protection
A senior Afghan official said American reluctance to provide security for Mohammad Zahir Shah had prompted a series of events that led him to postpone his return from Italy. A11

No Answers on Cockpit Tape
Relatives of people aboard United Flight 93, which crashed in Pennsylvania on Sept. 11, will hear nothing to resolve questions about their loved ones' last minutes when they listen to a cockpit voice recording, say officials familiar with its contents. A11

Muslims Accuse U.S. of Bias
Some Muslim leaders in the United States say the government is persecuting them as it once did suspected backers of Japan or the Soviets. A11

Reconstruction Must Wait
Nothing will be built above ground at the trade center site for years because of extensive underground construction that must be done, the chairman of the group overseeing Lower Manhattan's rebuilding said. A12

NATIONAL A14-20

Industry 109, Greens 0 In Top Energy Meetings
Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham met with more than 100 energy industry executives, trade association leaders and lobbyists as he helped the Bush administration write its energy report last year, Energy Department documents show. He did not meet with representatives of environmental or consumer groups. A20

Optimism on Social Security
The financial outlook for Social Security and Medicare has improved despite the recession, officials said. A16

Court Upholds Drug Evictions
The Supreme Court unanimously upheld a federal law allowing public housing tenants to be evicted for drug use by a household member or guest even outside the apartment. A20

U.S. Can Tighten Smog Rule
A federal appeals court in Washington ruled that the E.P.A. could strengthen the smog rule for the first time since 1979 and enforce regulation of the smallest soot particles. A18

EDUCATION B9

Albany Devises Takeover Plan
New York State would take over the troubled Roosevelt school district on Long Island under a plan by state lawmakers that hinges on Governor Pataki's approval. B1

Seeking Help From For-Profits
A Pennsylvania panel overseeing the Philadelphia public schools voted to seek management advice from Edison Schools and other companies. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Mortgage Defaults Soar Among Poor Since 9/11
The number of low- and moderate-income families in the metropolitan region who are deeply behind on mortgage payments is soaring, according to federal and city data and housing experts, who say mortgage troubles have surged since Sept. 11. A1

Plan to Curb Deficit
Governor McGreevey of New Jersey unveiled a $23.6 billion spending plan that sought to avert a $5 billion budget shortfall by cutting aid to parks and universities, raising cigarette taxes and using one-time measures to increase revenue. A1

City Water-Saving Measures
Mayor Bloomberg declared a drought emergency and ordered mandatory restrictions on water use by businesses and residents. Beginning Monday, businesses must cut water consumption by 15 percent. Car washing and the hosing down of sidewalks, driveways and streets will be banned unless well water is used. Ornamental fountains will be kept dry. And lawn watering will be allowed only a few hours every other day. B1

Casualty of Museum Move
Robert R. Macdonald resigned after 17 years as director of the Museum of the City of New York, citing Mayor Bloomberg's withdrawal of use of the renovated Tweed Courthouse as the museum's new downtown home. B3

ARTS E1-10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Bush Nominates Health Officials
President Bush chose an Arizona trauma surgeon, Dr. Richard H. Carmona, for surgeon general and Dr. Elias A. Zerhouni, a Johns Hopkins University administrator to lead the National Institutes of Health. A16

SPORTS D1-8

Baseball Owners' Opening Move
Commissioner Bud Selig said owners would not lock out players nor impose new work rules during the season or playoffs and World Series. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Andersen Chief to Step Down
Joseph F. Berardino said he would resign as chief executive of Arthur Andersen to try to save the firm, which was indicted on charges involving the shredding of documents related to Enron. A1

The S.E.C. filed a civil complaint against six former officers of Waste Management that offered new details of the accounting fraud case that has become a driving force behind the government's criminal action against Arthur Andersen. C1

Enron executives pressed UBS PaineWebber to take action against Chung Wu, a broker, who advised some Enron employees to sell their shares in August and was fired within hours of Enron's complaint. C1

Shoppers Buoy the Economy
Consumer confidence soared in March, offering more evidence that the American shopper is pulling the nation out of recession. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES A21

DINING F1-8

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Afghanistan at risk; pricing the poor out of college; federal interference in assisted suicide.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E7
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E9
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); WRITERS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); LOBBYING (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (63%); RELIGION (60%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (54%); ETHNICITY (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (95%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); LEBANON (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); VIETNAM (79%); VIET NAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



700 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: The Free-Speech Bind 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
So here's an interesting moral dilemma: I got e-mails last week from Saudi and Egyptian friends encouraging me to write a column about the Saudi poet who had been thrown in jail for writing a fiery poem attacking Saudi judges as corrupt.
 The Saudi poet, Abdul Mohsen Musalam, in his poem "The Corrupt on Earth," published March 10 in the newspaper Al-Madina, wrote: "It is sad that in the Muslim world, justice is suffering from a few judges who care for nothing but their bank accounts and their status with the rulers." He then added with amazing bluntness about the judges: "Your beards are smeared with blood. You indulge a thousand tyrants and only the tyrant do you obey." 
 Not only did the Saudi interior minister throw Mr. Musalam in jail for this poem, but his editor, Mokhtar al-Fal, was fired. So what's my dilemma? I should be all for free speech -- right? -- especially in Saudi Arabia.
Not so fast. By accident, I met this poet on a recent trip to Saudi Arabia and I tasted some other free speech he has in him. Readers may recall that I noted in an earlier column that at one newspaper I visited in Saudi Arabia, I walked out after being told that the source of all the problems today was that "the Jews control America." The newspaper was Al-Madina, and the person who said that to me, during a discussion, was Mr. Musalam. (His editor, who apologized for him, was a good person, and I hope he gets his job back.) 
So what to do?
The only thing to do is to call on the Saudis to release Mr. Musalam -- not for his sake, but because a government that is afraid of a poem only shows itself to be insecure and as tyrannical as the poet charged. His charges should be answered -- but don't throw him in jail.
This incident, though, actually highlights a larger dilemma: At the Arab summit meeting now being held in Beirut, not one of the 22 Arab leaders represented has been elected in a free and fair balloting.
But some experts ask: Why would we want to foster democracy and a free press in that part of the world when we know that many of those who would be elected or free to write would be incredibly hostile to us? After all, we may not like everything that Egypt's Hosni Mubarak or the al-Saud ruling family in Saudi Arabia do -- but they are more liberal and pro-American than many of their people. 
That's true, but Sept. 11 demonstrates how dangerous it is for us to rely on that. Because the pro-Americanism of these Arab leaders is being bought at a price of keeping their own people so angry, so without voice and so frustrated by corruption that they are enraged at both their regimes and us. Stability in these countries is achieved by these regimes' letting their people have free speech only to attack America and Israel.
After all, the Al-Riyadh newspaper recently published an article by a Saudi "professor" who alleged that Jews make a holiday pastry that requires them to "drain the blood" from a young Christian or Muslim, but the editor of Al-Riyadh was not fired. Right now the only way you get a free voice in most of the Arab press is by denouncing Israel and America or praising your regime. That distorts the whole political discourse.
"There is no way out of the dilemmas of the Arab world without some political opening," says the Stanford University democracy expert Larry Diamond. "But it doesn't start by holding elections now. What is needed is a managed political opening, coincident with economic reform, that can generate a middle class with respect for the rule of law and institutions. It requires a gradual process, with a vision from the top, that introduces pluralism into the political life. The objective is to create a body of people who can one day contest for power in a responsible way, with the regimes keeping some reserve of power for themselves as insurance." 
Yes, when you open up such closed societies, crazy things do fly out, like bats from a dungeon. Look at Poland and Russia, where two of the first bats out were rabid ultra-nationalist presidential candidates, Stanislaw Tyminski and Vladimir Zhirinovsky. But after a few seasons of democracy both are now long gone. When given a real choice, people usually don't want to be ruled by jerks.
Sure, these transitions are tricky. They can go wrong. See Serbia. But it's a worthwhile risk. Because context matters. Change the context of how people live and you change everything. And the current Arab context sure isn't working in our favor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); TRENDS (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; MUSALAM, ABDUL MOHSEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (93%); LEBANON (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) MIDDLE EAST; SAUDI ARABIA; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



701 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Waste Management Executives Are Named in S.E.C. Accusation 

BYLINE:  By KURT EICHENWALD 

 BODY:
The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil complaint yesterday against six former officers of Waste Management Inc., providing new details of the accounting fraud case that has become a driving force behind the government's criminal action against Arthur Andersen.
 The 138-page complaint provides an anatomy of an accounting scandal that is far more than just a financial history lesson. In light of Enron's collapse, with members of Congress and other officials asking how an apparent scheme to manipulate reported finances could have gone undetected, the government's new details in the Waste Management case, if true, provide evidence of the limited protections that exist for investors if a company's senior executives and its accountants decide to hide the truth. 
 The complaint portrays a multiyear effort to inflate reported profits at Waste Management using accounting tricks that allowed the company to hide about $1.7 billion in expenses from 1992 through part of 1997. And, year after year, the complaint says, Arthur Andersen accountants complained about the efforts but still approved the company's financial statements when their objections were effectively ignored. 
"The complaint is a catalog of ways to cook the books," said Thomas Newkirk, associate director of the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, adding that certain of the actions involved were "unlike anything that I've ever seen investigating financial fraud cases."
Arthur Andersen, which the complaint contends played a central role in allowing the accounting fraud to continue, paid a $7 million fine last year and accepted an injunction against future misdeeds as part of a settlement of its role in the Waste Management case. A belief by prosecutors that Andersen violated that injunction by destroying documents in the Enron investigation played a significant role in their decision to indict the firm two weeks ago on a charge of obstruction of justice. 
The complaint named the most senior officers at the company during most of the 1990's, including Dean L. Buntrock, Waste Management's founder and former chairman; Phillip B. Rooney, who served as president, chief operating officer and later chief executive during part of the relevant period; and James E. Koenig, the former chief financial officer. The others named are Thomas C. Hau, the former chief accounting officer; Herbert A. Getz, the former general counsel; and Bruce D. Tobecksen, the former vice president for finance.
The complaint contends they received tens of millions of dollars -- through stock options and bonuses -- that they would never have received if the accounting fraud had not taken place. The suit seeks to force them to pay fines and return money they received unjustly. It also seeks to bar them from serving as officers or directors of public companies.
Through their lawyers and in written statements, the named executives vehemently denied any improprieties, saying they had never taken any accounting actions that were not appropriate and approved. In a statement, Mr. Buntrock also said that he thought that the decision to bring the S.E.C. case was in part a result of conflicts of interest because chief accountants at the agency formerly helped Waste Management in its restatement of earnings that led to the investigation.
"I firmly believe that, while under my watch, all of Waste Management's financials were fairly reported and in compliance with" generally accepted accounting principles, Mr. Buntrock said in the statement. "I was never told otherwise, either by our internal accountants or our outside auditors."
While technical, the scheme described in the complaint was surprisingly simple: numbers for expenses at Waste Management became almost magical things, appearing and disappearing at will for the purpose of reaching preset earnings goals. For example, the complaint says, the company avoided depreciation expenses for its garbage trucks by extending their estimated life while simultaneously making unsupported increases in their salvage value. 
"In other words," the complaint says, "the more the trucks were used, and the older they became, the more the defendants said they were worth."
When a preliminary internal study was conducted showing that the salvage values -- which can be used to offset depreciation costs -- had been inflated, company officers ordered that the study be halted, the complaint contends. Afterward, efforts were made to destroy copies of the memorandum describing the study, and the original document was deleted from the author's computer. 
But the primary mechanism to manipulate earnings, the complaint says, were through accounting changes known as "top-level adjustments." In essence, subsidiaries would report their results to corporate headquarters relying on a series of financial assumptions; senior management then arbitrarily changed those assumptions, the complaint says, keeping the revisions hidden from the subsidiaries.
"Keeping the process secret and centralizing it at corporate made it especially easy for top management to falsify the financial statements by plugging in the additional income needed (by way of reduced expense) to achieve the desired earnings for each quarter," the complaint says. 
The complaint lists other bogus accounting practices, including failing to record expenses for the decreases in the value of landfills as they filled with waste and failing to establish sufficient reserves to pay for expenses like income taxes. The company also engaged in a practice known as netting, in which a one-time gain -- like the sale of an asset -- was used improperly to eliminate unrelated current expenses or accounting misstatements from past periods. 
Throughout these efforts, the complaint says, Andersen fully understood the extent of the accounting misrepresentations and repeatedly tried to press Waste Management executives to change their practices or correct errors, with little success. Eventually, the complaint says, Andersen typed up an agreement that laid out 32 changes in practices that Waste Management would have to undertake over time to make its finances more truthful. But in truth, if such material misrepresentations were taking place, the company would have been obligated under the law to disclose them and immediately restate earnings, not try to adjust the problems over many years.
"The action steps thus constituted an agreement between the company and its outside auditor to cover up past frauds by committing additional frauds in the future," the complaint says. 
The agency believes that Andersen's willingness to bend on such issues was a result of the fees it was receiving from Waste Management. According to the complaint, Waste Management put a cap on the amount Andersen could be paid for accounting work -- a total of $7.5 million over the years in question. But its nonaudit consulting fees were $17.8 million, including a $3.7 million "strategic review" that was virtually ignored by Waste Management. 
"A board member who had approved and reviewed the strategic review later described it as a 'boondoggle' " the complaint says.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Securities and Exchange Commission complaint named Dean L. Buntrock, left, Waste Management's founder and former chairman, and Phillip B. Rooney, president, and later, chief executive. (Michael L. Abramson)(pg. C1); Employees of Arthur Andersen held a rally yesterday in front of the company's office in Manhattan, protesting the indictment of the firm on charges of obstruction of justice in the Enron investigation. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "Years of Waste Mismanagement"The Securities and Exchange Commission is suing former top executives of Waste Management in connection with the inflation of the company's earnings from 1992 to1997. Here are the earnings and those executives' compensation for that period. OFFICER: Dean L. BuntrockHIGHEST POSITION HELD DURING PERIOD PROFITS WERE INFLATED: Chief executiveGAINS* (IN MILLIONS): $16.9 OFFICER: Phillip B. RooneyHIGHEST POSITION HELD DURING PERIOD PROFITS WERE INFLATED: Chief executiveGAINS* (IN MILLIONS): 9.3 OFFICER: James E. KoenigHIGHEST POSITION HELD DURING PERIOD PROFITS WERE INFLATED: Chief financial officerGAINS* (IN MILLIONS): 1.0 OFFICER: Thomas C. HauHIGHEST POSITION HELD DURING PERIOD PROFITS WERE INFLATED: Chief accounting officerGAINS* (IN MILLIONS): 0.6 OFFICER: Herbert A. GetzHIGHEST POSITION HELD DURING PERIOD PROFITS WERE INFLATED: General counselGAINS* (IN MILLIONS): 0.5 OFFICER: Bruce D. TobecksenHIGHEST POSITION HELD DURING PERIOD PROFITS WERE INFLATED: Vice president for financeGAINS* (IN MILLIONS): 0.4 *Gains from bonuses, retirement benefits, trading and charitable giving. Graph tracks the reported and restated earnings for Waste Management Inc., measured in billions, from 1992 through the first three quarters of 1997.(Source: Securities and Exchange Commission)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (87%); APPROVALS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); INDICTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (77%); ETHICS (76%); EVIDENCE (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); SCANDALS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); INJUNCTIONS (69%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%) SUITS AND LITIGATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; FINES (PENALTIES) 

COMPANY: WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (94%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (97%) WASTE MANAGEMENT INC; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO 

TICKER: WM (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (94%); NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (94%); NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (94%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (94%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (94%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (94%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%) SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS; 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT; NEWKIRK, THOMAS; BUNTROCK, DEAN L; ROONEY, PHILIP B; KOENIG, JAMES E; HAU, THOMAS C; GETZ, HERBERT A; TOBECKSEN, BRUCE D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



702 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Polish Priests Press Vatican on Case Against Bishop 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: POZNAN, Poland, March 21 

 BODY:
Here in western Poland, in what residents boast is the oldest diocese of a fervently Roman Catholic country, it was the priests who reported the many whispers of homosexual advances by the local archbishop -- and the priests who got the Vatican to take some action.
 In the United States, action against priests accused of sexual molestation has been a result of lawsuits by parents, family members or the victims themselves. In Europe, and particularly in countries as conservative as Poland, such scandals have been handled more discreetly. 
 But by late 1999, the rumors that Archbishop Juliusz Paetz of Poznan had made advances on teenage seminarians had become so intense that the director of the seminary confronted the archbishop, who denied the reports. In 2000 a respected local layman from the diocese drew the same response from the archbishop. 
So the priests decided to act.
Their action led not only to a Vatican investigation but also to detailed publication of the charges in a generally cautious Polish daily, Rzeczpospolita, which departed from its usual political and economic news on a February weekend to emblazon the story on its front page.
Last year a sizable number of priests of Poznan wrote to the Vatican, which -- apparently without informing the Polish pope, John Paul II -- asked the papal nuncio in Poland, Bishop Jozef Kowalczyk, to investigate the accusations. (Last year, Archbishop Paetz removed the publisher of the diocesan magazine, the Rev. Jacek Stepczak, after he refused to print a letter signed by priests who support the archbishop.) 
In May four affidavits signed by seminarians and detailing the archbishop's behavior were sent to the nuncio, who forwarded them to Archbishop Paetz with a recommendation that the matter be forgotten, according to journalists who saw copies of the document.
Further letters by leading priests and laymen to Polish bishops followed, to no effect, so a personal messenger -- whose identity no one in Poznan, Warsaw or Rome will disclose -- was finally dispatched to Pope John Paul.
In November two Vatican emissaries arrived in Poznan to question dozens of priests and seminarians, many of whom confirmed the reports, church officials familiar with the mission said. 
The Rev. Adam Schulz, spokesman for the Polish bishops, said a Vatican decision was expected soon, though he would not disclose its nature. Until then, he said, the bishops urged silence.
When Archbishop Paetz, who is 67, became archbishop of this grimy industrial city in 1996, it seemed like a crown on a fruitful career. The archbishop had studied at papal universities in Rome, held a prestigious position at the Vatican and been bishop of a diocese in eastern Poland. Poznan was a homecoming; his family had migrated here from southern Germany in the 17th century, like many settlers to what was once a mixed German-Polish region.
Now the local church is deeply torn, and Polish Catholics are dismayed by the first case in which such a high-ranking cleric has been accused of sexually abusing teenagers. To date, Poles have read of such priests abroad, most notably in the United States, or heard of lower-ranking priests at home accused of fathering children or sexually abusing youngsters.
The Polish church remains highly authoritarian, with a hierarchical order that culminates in the Vatican. No victims of sexual abuse have sought legal regress or -- until the Rzeczpospolita article, which masked identities while giving shocking details -- spoken publicly about their suffering.
Rzeczpospolita quoted a father of a seminarian as describing his distraught son coming home and telling his parents, "I did not know our archbishop was a homosexual." The paper said the boy ultimately left the seminary to finish his studies for the priesthood abroad. Another cleric from the seminary described how Archbishop Paetz touched seminarians to test their willingness to be approached. 
One priest told the paper that the archbishop warmly embraced him with a big kiss. He later called the archbishop, he said, to tell him he was cutting short his studies at the Poznan seminary.
After a fruitless meeting with the archbishop in late 1999, the seminary rector, the Rev. Tadeusz Karkosz, barred the archbishop from entering the seminary without a prior announcement. "I'm only interested in the good of the boys under my care," Father Karkosz told Rzeczpospolita. He refused to be interviewed for this article, as did seminarians and their intermediaries.
The archbishop has steadfastly denied all accusations that he acted inappropriately with seminarians, some of whom are as young as 18. In a letter he ordered read in churches on March 17, he accused the news media of "an unprecedented, massive and one-sided campaign against my person."
While he was deprived of the right to anonymity, he said, "indiscriminate and mendacious attacks and accusations on the part of a few have loosed an avalanche of accusations and rumors, without family names or Christian names or faces behind them."
Some pastors refused to read the letter, though they are unwilling to discuss why, saying they fear retribution. Local journalists fear that the attack on the media means that Archbishop Paetz could be dismissed, but present himself as a victim of media rancor.
Wlodzimierz Bogaczyk, the bureau chief in Poznan for Gazeta Wyborcza, Poland's largest newspaper, said: "We see a real shift. What is said is that it's not certain whether the archbishop is guilty, but it is certain that the media are guilty." 
Many here believe a solution will be found that will permit the archbishop to avoid not only disgrace but even prosecution. For example, a compromise could redraw diocesan boundaries to make his retirement appear to be a consequence of reorganization rather than of reprehensible behavior.
Indeed, Vatican officials familiar with the case say that evidence of homosexual activity appears to be lacking, and that Archbishop Paetz will most likely only be chided for injudicious words and actions to seminarians.
Marek Ziolkowski, a sociologist at Poznan University who studies Poles' religious behavior, said the slowness of the official reaction and the silence were not surprising because action could come only from John Paul. "Some thought, 'We do not want to bother the czar,' " he said, referring playfully to the pope. "They felt disclosure would be linked with enormous pain" for John Paul, who is 81 and visibly infirm. "It was about sparing him the pain."
But the silence, some say, came at the price of a fear more familiar during Communism, when the Polish church was a rallying point of national identity and played a part in toppling the system.
A parish priest who refused to read the archbishop's letter from the pulpit on March 17 also declined to comment for this article, saying he had been threatened with transfer. An employee of a diocesan organization, also seeking anonymity for fear of jeopardizing his job, noted how the silence recalled Communist times, "when people could not talk publicly for fear of the consequences." 
Professor Ziolkowski noted that in general, Poles tend not to play up the misdeeds of individual bishops, believing as they do in the permanence of the Roman Catholic Church.
By way of illustration, he paraphrased words of the 19th-century Polish novelist Henryk Sienkiewicz that have become a common adage: "The monastery will long outlive the abbot."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Archbishop Juliusz Paetz of Poznan, Poland. Several priests have accused him of inappropriate sexual behavior toward seminarians, but he has denied the reports and said the news media are slandering him. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); FAMILY (76%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); WRITERS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) HOMOSEXUALITY 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN; PAETZ, JULIUSZ (ABP); JOHN PAUL II (POPE); KOWALCZYK, JOZEF (BISHOP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (90%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%) HOLY SEE (96%); POLAND (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); GERMANY (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) POLAND; POZNAN (POLAND)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



703 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Albany Will Preserve Its Streak: For the 18th Year, a Late Budget 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 26 

 BODY:
For the 18th year in a row, New York State will not have a budget enacted by the start of the fiscal year, a fact the Legislature acknowledged today by passing an emergency spending bill to keep the government running past April 1.
 Legislative leaders and Gov. George E. Pataki sounded optimistic as they emerged from the latest in a series of lengthy budget negotiations. 
 Only the governor tried to dampen expectations of an easy resolution. "I think there was a productive exchange of ideas," he told reporters, "and I think there were some concepts and proposals advanced by everybody that allow us to move the process forward, but it's still a very, very difficult year."
Despite the dreary milestone of yet another late budget, there is greater promise for a relatively early conclusion to the budget drama this year than in any recent year. The Assembly Democrats' estimate of available revenues is just $600 million more than Mr. Pataki's; in some recent years they have been as much as $2 billion apart. And the mere fact that the three leaders have held several budget meetings in March is an improvement over recent years, when the governor often refused to negotiate for months.
All sides are eager to avoid a repeat of last year, when budget negotiations dragged into October, by far the latest in history; when the Legislature, trying to put pressure on the governor, passed a stripped-down budget that left many programs with no money at all; and when the economic downturn and the Sept. 11 attack forced everyone to lower expectations of how much money would be available.
The Legislature passed a $4.66 billion spending bill today to keep the state operating until the second week of April, and Mr. Pataki said he would sign it. In recent budget impasses, the state has functioned for as long as four months on a series of such two- and three-week emergency bills.
As a practical matter, it became clear weeks ago that lawmakers would miss the April 1 deadline, but it became official today, the last day the Legislature was scheduled to meet during the 2001-2002 fiscal year. Legislators will take the first week of April off. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



704 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: If We Care About City Schools . . . 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert's concern about the lack of money for New York City schools (column, March 25) is understated, a reality that will become even more clear when this year's high school graduation rates, and the accompanying dropout rate data, are published.
 New York State's academic intervention services regulations are woefully underbudgeted. 
Without an infusion of services for students who are not prepared to succeed on the five required Regents exams or who don't pass them on their first attempt, a large number of students will have no recourse but to enter the ranks of the perennial unemployed. 
 Regardless of whom should be blamed, it's the students who will suffer.

MARC F. BERNSTEIN
Chief Academic Officer
Kaplan K12 Learning Services
New York, March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (88%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GRADUATION RATES (72%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TUTORS AND TUTORING; TESTS AND TESTING 

COMPANY: KAPLAN INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611430 PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING (56%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, MARC F 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



705 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Rebuild Downtown, And Remember 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Witold Rybczynski ("How Quickly a City Can Grow," Op-Ed, March 25) speaks for the architects and planners who have always hated the twin towers, while most everyone else loved them. 
Rebuilding the twin towers, with improved technology and infrastructure, is our only real hope for a solution that can be "a simple one and soon," with a proven track record to boot. 
 The World Trade Center succeeded magnificently as a business and transportation hub, as a tourist site and as an icon for the city. It was already a part of a combined commercial and residential neighborhood resurgence, and its future value as a memorial is unsurpassed.

LUTHER S. HARRIS
New York, March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HIJACKING (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (74%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: RYBCZYNSKI, WITOLD; HARRIS, LUTHER S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



706 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: In Year of Attacks, Passover Preparations Are Somber 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
Tamar Warburg wanted to be reunited with family members who did not feel safe making their annual Passover trip to Israel. So, at the last minute, she decided to leave her yearlong studies in Jerusalem for a quick return home to Englewood, N.J.
 Judy Goldring, a Brooklyn jeweler, wanted to have a Seder with her entire family, too. But her American-born, Columbia-educated son, Mordechai David Goldring, will not be able to make it: he joined the Israeli Army last year, just as the violence in the Mideast was cresting, because "he just felt this was his responsibility as a Jew," she said. 
 Judy Weil, a resident of Armonk, N.Y., would have liked to sit down at the Seder table with her daughter Joanne, just as the family had done for more than 30 years. But Joanne died in the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center, so this year, the Weils are going elsewhere to observe the holiday. Staying home would be too painful.
As Jews in New York and across America prepare for Passover, which begins at sundown tonight, many have an inescapable sense that this year it will be impossible to avoid talking about how much life has been altered by two calamitous events: the recent high level of violence in the Middle East and the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
After all, some say, it was all too easy in previous years to mark the holiday with a sometimes perfunctory ritual of reciting passages from the Haggadah, an ancient text, without dwelling on the meaning of the words. Some said it was the equivalent of reciting the Pledge of Allegiance or the lyrics to a favorite song for the thousandth time without necessarily thinking about those words.
"We say in the Haggadah that there are those who seek to destroy us, and quite often, when we said it, we didn't pay attention to it," said Rabbi Joseph Potasnik, president of the New York Board of Rabbis and the Jewish chaplain of the Fire Department. "But this year, when we have people who lost loved ones at the World Trade Center, in Israel, we see the fragility of life."
Indeed, Rabbi Potasnik plans to spend one of the first nights of Passover at ground zero, comforting a firefighter who will be looking for the remains of a friend.
Meanwhile, the Orthodox Union, on its Web site, is urging all Jews to "add a special prayer on behalf of our brethren in Israel during the Seder." 
And Rabbi Michael Lerner, the editor of Tikkun, a liberal magazine on Jewish issues, took out a full-page advertisement in The New York Times last week encouraging people to "turn part of your Passover Seder" into a discussion about the violence in Israel.
One should also not forget the Jews in Argentina who have been reeling from the economic crisis there, said Rabbi Marc Schneier, president of the North American Board of Rabbis, who recently returned from a trip to Buenos Aires. In Argentina, thousands of people are lining up at two dozen soup kitchens that have been set up at synagogues, he said.
This is not to say, of course, that before this year, people did not think about world issues during Passover. But for many people, the extrapolation of the Haggadah, which recounts the ancient Israelites' liberation from slavery and exodus from Egypt, often applied to personal struggles.
"In the past, you'd think about your own personal mitzrayim," said Marcia Stein, executive director of City Meals on Wheels, using the Hebrew word for Egypt, which has come to symbolize bondage. "It could be an addition to drinking, smoking; it could be an inability to overcome a hatred in your own family. I might have thought about a chocolate bar as my personal mitzrayim."
For Ms. Warburg, the student from New Jersey, the hardest decision of the last few weeks is one that many Jewish families have confronted: whether to celebrate Passover in Israel or in America.
"I felt very torn," said Ms. Warburg, 18, who is the granddaughter of Norman Lamm, president of Yeshiva University. "I am strongly Zionistic, but if my family came with my 7-year-old sister and three other sisters, and God forbid something happened. . . ." She paused.
Ultimately, she agreed on a compromise: she would return home for a week or two, but then return to complete her year abroad, unlike some of her classmates, who have left Israel and are afraid to return.
And yet she knows that come tonight, when her family ends its Seder by reciting the Hebrew for "Next year in Jerusalem," those words will possess a special meaning. Next year, she said, her family really does want to celebrate Passover in Jerusalem again.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Bartow Community Center kitchen in the Bronx, which serves over 450 kosher meals a day, Rabbi Solomon Berl pours scalding water to eliminate traces of leavening to prepare for serving matzo at Passover. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); PASSOVER (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); FAMILY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (85%); RELIGION (78%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); HIJACKING (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (61%); WEB SITES (60%); ARMIES (57%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) JEWS; PASSOVER; TERRORISM; PALESTINIANS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); ARGENTINA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) ISRAEL; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



707 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
BOISE CASCADE EXPECTSLARGER FIRST-QUARTER LOSS

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 The Boise Cascade Corporation, the paper and lumber maker, said an expected loss in the first quarter would be wider than analysts' forecasts because of falling paper prices and expenses from production cuts. The loss will be 15 cents to 20 cents a share, the company said. 
Boise Cascade, which is based in Boise, Idaho, was expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call, to lose 3 cents a share. Boise's average price for products like newsprint and copier paper fell about $15 a ton from the fourth quarter, the company said. Paper makers slowed production and closed plants as demand slowed with the economy. Boise cut paper output by 60,000 tons, or 2 percent, in the quarter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (91%); PAPER & PACKAGING (91%); PAPER MILLS (91%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); NEWSPRINT (88%); CLOSINGS (51%) FINANCES; PAPER AND PULP; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: OFFICEMAX INC (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BOISE CASCADE CORP 

TICKER: OMX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (93%); SIC5943 STATIONERY STORES (93%) SIC2621 PAPER MILLS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



708 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 73 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Auto Exports Jump 

BYLINE:  By Ken Belson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Leading automakers increased their exports to North America last month. Exports were helped by a weak yen, the introduction of several new models and the economic recovery in the United States. 
Toyota Motor shipped 21.8 percent more cars to the United States, while exports by Nissan Motor rose 23.9 percent. Exports by Mitsubishi Motors and Mazda rose even faster. But domestic auto sales slipped for most companies. Ken Belson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%) AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SALES 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (58%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (58%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; NISSAN MOTOR CO; MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP; MAZDA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (58%); 7211 (TSE) (58%); TYT (LSE) (58%); TM (NYSE) (58%); 7203 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC5511 NEW CAR DEALERS; 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



709 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: FAILING MORTGAGES SOAR IN NEW YORK 

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW 

 BODY:
The number of low- and moderate-income families in the New York metropolitan region who are seriously behind on their mortgage payments is soaring, according to new federal and city data and housing experts, who say they have seen a surge in mortgage troubles since Sept. 11.
 Among homeowners holding federally insured loans in a popular mortgage program intended to help low- and moderate-income people and minorities buy their first homes, the percentage of families who bought during the housing and economic booms of the 1990's but are now in default on their loans has skyrocketed, according to data from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
 The increase in the number of homeowners in default on federally insured loans for one- to four-family homes -- defined as 90 days behind on their monthly mortgage payments -- is occurring across the nation, the federal data show, with the rate more than doubling in the last decade. 
But for a variety of reasons, including the soaring prices of New York City real estate in the last five years, and changes in lending practices and job losses in the aftermath of Sept. 11, the New York area default rates are well ahead of those in the rest of the country -- three times higher than the national average so far this year. 
The vast majority of the roughly 50,000 homeowners in the New York region with Federal Housing Administration mortgages -- 75 percent -- live in Brooklyn and Queens. Foreclosures on these loans have also risen sharply in the past few years, almost doubling between 1999 and 2000, according to HUD, which administers the loan program. Further, a new analysis by a New York City economic development group shows that in the last six months, the number of foreclosures -- actions by lenders to repossess the homes -- on all types of home loans in Brooklyn and Queens increased sharply over the same period last year.
What has emerged in New York City is a kind of default and foreclosure belt, snaking through predominantly black neighborhoods of southeast Queens and central Brooklyn, where experts say a combination of rising unemployment, economic losses resulting from the events of Sept. 11 and fraudulent lending practices that lured first-time home buyers into untenable situations, has given rise to unprecedented mortgage troubles.
"It looks to me like the American dream is, for some people, becoming the American nightmare," said Dolores Martin, a homeownership counselor for Jamaica Housing Improvement Inc., a nonprofit agency in Queens whose offices have been flooded in recent months with clients who are behind on their mortgages or attempting to stave off foreclosure on their loans. 
In 1991, the percentage of New York homeowners in default on their Federal Housing Authority loans was 2.4 percent. In the first months of 2002, the rate was 11.7 percent, compared with 4.9 percent nationally. 
The trouble making mortgage payments appears to be centered on the government-guaranteed loans, which along with federal loans for veterans, account for 10 to 14 percent of the overall mortgage market. Another recent national survey suggests that the problem is not as pronounced with other types of loans.
That survey, by the Mortgage Bankers Association, a trade group that tracks delinquent payments and foreclosures on conventional and government loans quarterly, shows a slight increase nationally and in New York State in foreclosures over the last year but a decrease since last summer in late payments.
Many of the moderate-income New York City families who obtained the federal loans and bought houses during the flush economic times of the late 1990's were swept up, experts said, by a feeling that the good times would never end and that it was time to buy -- or forever be priced out of owning a home. However, when the economy stalled, they found themselves with more debt then they could handle, and things have only gotten worse since Sept. 11.
Among Ms. Martin's clients are a flight attendant who lost her job after Sept. 11 and who is married to a taxi driver whose income plunged after the terrorist attack, and a woman who lost her weekend job at a car dealership in October, as sales there began to plummet. 
And Ms. Martin, who as a real estate broker in the 1990's sold homes at a furious pace in many of the same neighborhoods where she travels now, trying to rescue her clients from foreclosure, is one of several counselors across the city who said they were seeing an overwhelming number of people in neighborhoods like Jamaica, Queens, and Bedford Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, facing the loss of their homes.
"I'm finding that people just aren't able to hold it together," said Pamela Sah, a lawyer with the Foreclosure Prevention Project of South Brooklyn Legal Services. "Beginning late last year, we started getting slammed," she said, referring to her caseload, which she said had doubled among clients holding F.H.A. loans.
Default rates are only somewhat lower in Staten Island and the Bronx, but there are far fewer federally insured loans in those boroughs: 3,370 in Staten Island and 6,788 in the Bronx, compared with 15,807 in Brooklyn and 22,472 in Queens. In Manhattan, there are only 429 such loans, 158 of which are in default, mostly due to a mortgage scandal last year that led to hundreds of defaults in low-income neighborhoods, housing officials said.
Federal housing officials declined to discuss the default rates. But Diane L. Tomb, a HUD spokeswoman, explained in a statement that the inventory of older housing in New York City presents the risk of unexpected repairs, and that in New York City, the F.H.A. program tends to attract a higher concentration of people who buy multifamily homes and rely on rental income to meet the mortgage.
Ms. Tomb said that another reason for the high default rate was the mortgage scandal, which involved real estate speculators working with mortgage lenders and appraisers to buy properties from private owners and quickly resell them to nonprofit groups at hugely inflated prices.
But the scandal mostly involved properties in Harlem and Brooklyn and would account for only a fraction of the defaults in the last few years, not the last 10 years. 
However, advocates for the poor say there have been instances in other boroughs where unscrupulous lenders have arranged F.H.A. mortgages for inflated amounts, then profited when the buyers of those properties defaulted.
Besides the demographics of a city that has a higher proportion of low- and moderate-income homeowners than most other areas of the country, several experts said that another likely cause of the higher New York region default rates had to do with a wave of refinancing in the 1990's that left the government mortgage program with the lenders most at risk of defaulting. 
As private lenders began to compete with the government for the business of moderate-income home buyers -- offering lower down payments and interest rates -- some homeowners with good credit left the F.H.A. program.
And, as real estate values increased sharply during the 1990's, some homeowners refinanced because they qualified for more attractive private mortgages.
Still, the number of homeowners holding the federal loans has steadily increased in the last decade, suggesting that more people with spottier credit records and perhaps shakier financing are taking out the loans, said Paul Muolo, executive director of National Mortgage News, published in Washington.
Even though foreclosures on F.H.A. loans in most of the New York region -- including the five boroughs and Westchester, Rockland and Putnam Counties -- has increased sharply in the past decade, the latest federal data shows a slight decrease in the New York region in the past few months. Still, an analysis by the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project, which is based in Manhattan and obtains data on foreclosures, shows that in the last six months there was a surge in claims filed by lenders against borrowers in Brooklyn and Queens.
Between Oct. 1, 2001, and March 11, 2002, lenders filed 1,207 claims against owners of one- to four-family homes in Brooklyn, compared with 869 during roughly the same period a year earlier, the analysis shows. In Queens, 1,116 claims were filed between Oct. 1, 2001, and March 11, 2002, compared with 976 filed during the same period the year before.
Behind all the statistics are people like Gina Lundy, a media representative at a medical company who is facing foreclosure. She earns $37,000 annually and bought her first home, in Springfield Gardens, Queens, in July 2000. After having to pay for unexpected repairs to the plumbing and heating systems, Ms. Lundy lost her second job, at a car dealership in Brooklyn, soon after Sept. 11, and the $14,000 a year in extra income she had counted on when she applied for her $1,531 monthly mortgage. 
Ms. Lundy, 38, who is raising three sons, has borrowed $5,000 from her retirement account and is trying to work out a payment plan with her lender. "I'm going to hope for the best," she said. "I wanted to buy the first house I could afford, and I need to keep the house. If I pass away, my kids will have this to fall back on."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about an increase in defaults on federally insured mortgages in the New York City region misstated the title of Paul Muolo of The National Mortgage News, who discussed the trend, and misstated the paper's home city. He is executive editor, not executive director. The newspaper is published in New York, not Washington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gina Lundy, left, is trying to keep up the payments on her house after losing a part-time job. Dolores Martin, a counselor on mortgage problems, is helping her and other homeowners in the same situation. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B6) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Arrears Climb Steeply in City"After a housing boom of the early '90s, mortgage default rates for low- and moderate-income families in New York City have increased amid the economic downturn. Default rate on mortgages for Federal Housing Administration loans from 1992-2002. NEW YORK METROPOLITAN REGION*: 11.7BROOKLYN: 12.2QUEENS: 10.7UNITED STATES: 4.9 *includes New York City and Westchester, Rockland and Putnam Counties. (Source: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HIJACKING (79%); TRENDS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CITIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); REPOSSESSION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RACE & RACISM (60%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%) HOUSING; MORTGAGES; DEFAULTING; FORECLOSURES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BLACKS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (83%) FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: KERSHAW, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



710 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Grant to Gazprom Partner Is Questioned 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 26 

 BODY:
Why was the United States government subsidizing Itera Holding, a mysterious company in Jacksonville, Fla., at the center of accusations of corruption swirling around Gazprom, the Russian gas giant?
 That is what minority shareholders in Gazprom demanded to know about an $868,000 grant announced by the United States Trade and Development Agency in late February. The agency provides grants to American companies to help them gain contracts overseas. 
 The grant was intended to pay for an American engineering company to conduct a feasibility study of a gas field in northern Russia that Itera owns with Gazprom. But Gazprom shareholders complained that the grant gave a stamp of approval from the American government to a company they say has benefited improperly from asset-stripping at Gazprom, a charge that Itera denies. 
The Trade and Development Agency suspended the grant last week, apparently because of the complaints. Leocadia Zak, the agency's general counsel, said that additional information was needed before the money could be disbursed.
Itera Holding started in the mid-1990's as a small gas trading company and rapidly grew into the No. 2 gas producer in Russia, behind Gazprom. But the transactions with Gazprom that brought about that growth are shrouded in mystery. Gazprom extended more than $600 million in loan guarantees to Itera, and some analysts and shareholders have said that they think Gazprom managers secretly enriched themselves or their relatives by transferring Gazprom assets to Itera.
The managers who ran Gazprom through the 1990's were removed last year by the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, who said that enormous sums of money had leaked out of the company. The Russian government is Gazprom's largest shareholder with 38 percent.
Since then, Gazprom's new management has been struggling to regain control of lost assets, generally by exercising buyback options or forcing bankruptcy proceedings for affiliated companies like Sibur and Purgaz. 
Itera and former managers of Gazprom said that there were no improper links between the two companies or their executives. 
At the heart of the controversy is the question of who owns the Achimovskoye gas field, with estimated reserves of 354 billion cubic meters of gas. An Itera spokesman, Nikolai Semanenko, said that Itera and Gazprom, after creating a joint venture in 2000, applied to the Russian government for the development rights, and that Itera had invested in the field since then. 
But a study last year by the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers found that Gazprom had sole ownership rights to the field that dated from before the joint venture, raising questions about how Itera gained its 49 percent interest.
An American official involved in the process said the grant to Itera "made sense because of U.S. exports -- we want to give U.S. firms a leg up in the development of this field -- and because Itera has become a major player in Eurasian gas."
The American engineering company that was to conduct the study on the gas field, BSI Industries of Columbus, Ohio, is owned and run principally by Vladimir Gokun, 56, a Russian-born American citizen, who had worked in the Soviet gas industry designing transport systems. Mr. Gokun said he met Itera's chief executive, Igor Makarov, at a conference in Houston in 1994. 
Mr. Gokun said the grant would give American companies, which sold gas turbines to the Soviet Union before the 1979 invasion of Afghanistan and subsequent embargo, an opportunity to return to the market.
But Ian Hague, a partner at Firebird Management, an equity fund in New York that holds Gazprom shares, called the grant "an endorsement of what we minority shareholders regard as something that could turn out to be a criminal organization," referring to Itera.
Mr. Semanenko dismissed the criticism. "Itera and Gazprom are two independent companies with no relation to each other," he said. Referring to critics, he said, "They've talked about a connection a million times, but not once has anything been proven."
James Fenker, strategist at Troika Dialog, an investment bank in Moscow, said: "It was a closed deal between former Gazprom management and Itera. It just doesn't seem like something the U.S. government should be involved in." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (84%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); LAWYERS (66%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%) GAS (FUEL); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (93%); OAO GAZPROM NEFT (92%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: TRADE & DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (91%) ITERA (CO); GAZPROM (RUSSIAN CO); TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (US); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS 

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (93%); GAZP (RTS) (93%); SIBN (RTS) (92%); GAZ (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



711 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
A Suit Says WorldCom Deals Obscured Millions in Bad Debt

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
A lawsuit quietly moving forward against the telecommunications giant WorldCom accuses the company of using concealed transactions and sham contracts to avoid reporting an uncollectible debt of $165 million. 
 WorldCom says the suit, brought by shareholders of a company, now bankrupt, in which WorldCom was an investor, has no merit. But a San Francisco judge ruled that the accusations were detailed enough for the case to proceed. The two sides are now disputing whether WorldCom's chief executive, Bernard J. Ebbers, and chief financial officer, Scott D. Sullivan, must submit to pretrial questions and cross-examination, according to the plaintiffs' lawyer. 
 The suit is unfolding at an awkward time for WorldCom, which has disclosed that the Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating its accounting practices. 
The suit grows out of WorldCom's relations with Cherry Communications and World Access, two small long-distance companies that went bankrupt after extensive dealings with WorldCom and each other.
According to a suit filed last June in San Francisco Superior Court, Cherry and World Access were pawns in an intricate and deceptive plan that began in 1997 as an effort by WorldCom to avoid writing off as uncollectible a $165 million debt that Cherry owed WorldCom. 
The suit contends that WorldCom helped engineer a bankruptcy filing by Cherry and arranged for Cherry's subsequent merger into World Access in 1998. According to the suit, WorldCom then took part in transactions that misleadingly inflated the value of World Access, a publicly traded long-distance company based in Atlanta. The goal, the suit says, was to help World Access use its high-priced stock to buy numerous small companies that had sprung up to offer phone services in Europe as telecommunications there were being deregulated. WorldCom and World Access executives viewed the strategy as an efficient way to build an enterprise that WorldCom itself would eventually buy, the suit says.
A WorldCom spokesman, Bradford Burns, said, "We believe the claims are without merit and will certainly be contesting them vigorously." He declined to comment further on the suit.
The plaintiffs are Roger B. Abbott and other former shareholders of Communications Telesystems International, a phone and data services company based in San Diego that operated under the name WorldxChange. Communications Telesystems was acquired in April 2000 by World Access in a stock swap. A year later, World Access filed for bankruptcy protection, and the stock that Mr. Abbott and others received in the deal became worthless.
The defendants, which include World Access and its executives and directors, are expected to argue that the plaintiffs' losses had nothing to do with accounting tactics, but resulted from competition and recession in the telecommunications industry. John D. Phillips, chairman and chief executive of World Access, called the suit "an attempt to shake down our insurance company." 
WorldCom's main accuser, Mr. Abbott, has a track record of entrepreneurial flair and illegal hustle. He spent three years in prison after conviction on cocaine trafficking in 1983. After his release, he set up a telemarketing company that attracted regulatory scrutiny for its tactics in selling precious metals investments. 
In 1991, Mr. Abbott founded Communications Telesystems, which became known for slamming, the practice of switching customers from one long-distance service to another without their permission. After tens of thousands of complaints, the California Public Utilities Commission revoked the company's permission to operate most services in the state.
Neil A. Goteiner, Mr. Abbott's lawyer, said his client's past had nothing to do with the charges or Mr. Abbott's credibility, and was unlikely to become evidence in the case.
The lawsuit contends that Mr. Ebbers and Mr. Sullivan became worried in 1997 that the $165 million Cherry owed WorldCom for use of WorldCom's network might be uncollectible. WorldCom, then still a telecommunications upstart, wanted to avoid writing off the debt while it was pursuing an audacious takeover of MCI, the nation's second-largest long-distance carrier, the suit says.
Enter Mr. Phillips, a friend and business associate of Mr. Ebbers who was a World Access director. The suit says the defendants worked together to help Mr. Phillips gain control of Cherry and merge it with World Access. The plans for the merger -- announced in February 1998, a few weeks before MCI shareholders voted to approve WorldCom's takeover of their company -- allowed WorldCom to transform Cherry's debt into a 14 percent stake in World Access, the suit says.
A crucial element in the transactions, according to the suit, was the business relationship Mr. Phillips negotiated with WorldCom. The suit says that Mr. Phillips portrayed the arrangement as a commitment from WorldCom to buy $25 million a month in services from World Access. In fact, the suit contends, the contract was "a sham" and WorldCom paid only the amount needed to help World Access meet its quarterly earnings projections. 
The combination of apparently reliable earnings and ties to WorldCom misled investors, analysts and Mr. Abbott, according to the suit. 
Mr. Phillips's version of the story, which has yet to be presented in court, is that WorldCom was not the force behind his interest in gaining control of Cherry or his move to merge it with World Access.
Mr. Phillips said that WorldCom wound up with an interest in helping World Access after the merger because it held stock in the company. But it was clear that WorldCom's commitment was to conduct $25 million a month in business with World Access only if the World Access prices and service were competitive and if WorldCom actually needed the capacity, Mr. Phillips said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); LITIGATION (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MERGERS (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); TESTIMONY (75%); JUDGES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%) BANKRUPTCIES; FINANCES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: WORLD ACCESS INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%) WORLDCOM INC; COMMUNICATIONS TELESYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL; CHERRY COMMUNICATIONS; WORLD ACCESS INC 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; EBBERS, BERNARD J; SULLIVAN, SCOTT D; ABBOTT, ROGER B 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%); EUROPE (68%) ; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



712 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Airlines and hotel chains are spending plenty to revive travel, especially business travel.

BYLINE:  By Jane L. Levere 

 BODY:
BUSINESS travel has shown definite signs of life since the double shock of Sept. 11 and a slumping economy, but it is still limping. So airlines, hotel companies and others involved in travel have introduced campaigns in recent weeks to try to get things going at a brisk pace again.
 The problem is clear. Domestic airlines will lose $3.5 billion this year, Samuel C. Buttrick, an analyst with UBS Warburg, forecast recently. And while that is far less than the more than $6 billion loss in 2001, it is still the second-largest loss in industry history. 
 Scott Berman, a partner who follows the hotel industry at PricewaterhouseCoopers, said, "Full recovery is difficult to pinpoint, and is very likely to come some time in 2003."
Many new campaigns are directed at business travelers.
American Airlines introduced several television spots during the February Olympic Games; these will run through the end of this month on broadcasts of the National Collegiate Athletic Association games.
The ads, by Temerlin McClain in Irving, Tex., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, feature American employees working at various jobs, and conclude by saying, "We are an airline that is proud to bear the name of American."
According to Michael Gunn, the airline's executive vice president for marketing and planning, the ads are aimed mainly at frequent business travelers and airline employees.
"Traffic is there, but business traffic just simply is not there," Mr. Gunn said. He declined to specify American's budget for the advertising, describing it as "well short of $10 million."
United Airlines also has new commercials by Fallon Worldwide in Minneapolis, a unit of the Publicis Groupe, that are running nationally on N.C.A.A. broadcasts, and on prime-time programming in Chicago. Its campaign also includes ads running through April 30 in The Wall Street Journal, USA Today and other newspapers, and on radio in select markets through the middle of next month.
Jerry Dow, United's director for worldwide marketing communications, said the new ads were meant to "give people reasons to believe United is bigger, better, different and should be their choice."
Six TV spots feature employees discussing their work, and three depict United customers. Print advertising focuses on specific selling points, like the age of United's fleet.
The campaign is aimed "primarily at business travelers," Mr. Dow said. "Our customers are coming back at a slow but very steady pace. We need to accelerate that curve if we want to get back to the point of profitability."
He also said United was allocating most of its 2002 advertising budget to the first half of the year, spending more than it has in this period in the last five years. According to CMR, United's largest ad expenditures in the first six months of the last five years came in 2000, when it spent $42 million.
Several hotel companies are also wooing business travelers.
Last month, Choice Hotels International began a $10 million print, TV, radio and online campaign by the Washington office of Arnold Worldwide, part of Havas Advertising; it will run through the end of April.
The campaign promotes the company's new loyalty program partnerships with American, Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines and US Airways, as well as a triple mileage offer.
"We're starting to see the economy come back and business travelers getting back on the road," said Wayne W. Wielgus, Choice's senior vice president for marketing. "We see a lot of opportunity as companies look at their travel expenses and trade into the midscale and economy market."
Earlier this month Marriott International introduced four TV spots by the New York office of McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising, a unit of Interpublic, that promote its Marriott, Courtyard, Residence Inn and Fairfield Inn brands. Each spot features a famous sports coach giving tips on getting a competitive edge; in the Courtyard ad, Phil Jackson, head coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, dispenses advice as he drives several business travelers around in a taxi.
The ads, which will run through mid-April on cable and broadcast TV, are intended to "capture the business travel demand that's out there, not generate demand," said Deborah Fell, Marriott's senior vice president for marketing. She declined to disclose the company's budget.
Several other campaigns are geared more toward the leisure market, or the travel market in general. Orbitz, the online travel company, is running a magazine and cable TV campaign, through Memorial Day, by Fusion Idea Lab in Chicago. The theme, "The most low fares to planet earth," lets "customers know we have a great value proposition," said Mike Sands, chief marketing officer.
Finally, the American Society of Travel Agents, Association of Retail Travel Agents and the Airlines Reporting Corporation, which processes airline sales by travel agents, earlier this month introduced a public service television commercial featuring the astronaut Jim Lovell, commander of the Apollo 13 space mission. In the spot, he explains air travel security measures instituted after Sept. 11 and urges Americans to travel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phil Jackson, head coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, dispenses advice in a Courtyard ad as he drives several business travelers around in a taxi. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (88%); LODGING (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (67%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); OLYMPICS (53%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ADVERTISING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HOTELS AND MOTELS 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); TEMERLIN MCCLAIN (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); FALLON WORLDWIDE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (59%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (56%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); PUB (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: CHRISTIE HEFNER (50%) LEVERE, JANE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



713 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
YES Says No to Cablevision Proposal

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
Cablevision, which has resisted carrying the Yankees' new cable channel as part of its basic package, proposed a compromise of sorts yesterday. Cablevision said it would carry the Yankees' channel, the YES Network, on its systems but would allow YES to set the price and keep all the revenues.
 YES rejected the idea, labeling it undemocratic and unfair. 
 The proposal essentially dared YES to demonstrate how many of Cablevision's three million subscribers actually want it. And it maintained Cablevision's opposition to carrying YES as a basic channel and requiring all of its customers, even those who are not fans of baseball, to absorb some of YES's monthly fee, $2 a subscriber. 
"It's a fair way for the Yankees to find out what their value is in the marketplace rather than make the retailer shove it down everybody's throat," James L. Dolan, the president of Cablevision, said. 
But Leo F. Hindery Jr., YES's chairman, rejected Dolan's argument and insisted that YES should be a basic channel available to the widest possible audience.
"There is nothing about my service that differentiates it from the myriad other services that belong in basic," he said. "The discriminatory aspect of it is simply unacceptable."
He said Dolan's offer ignored the reality that programmers like YES do not sell themselves directly to cable subscribers but use the cable systems as intermediaries.
"This is an attempt to shift blame back in my direction, and that's disappointing," Hindery said.
The impasse leaves Cablevision's subscribers in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut without access to some or all of the network's 130 Yankees games -- opening day in Baltimore is Monday -- or seeking an alternative with a satellite dish.
YES and Cablevision have staked out rigid positions, and until now, YES has been more successful in appealing to fan sentiment. It has successfully pursued agreements to be carried as a basic channel with Time Warner, Comcast, RCN and DirecTV, the satellite service. And in doing so, it has cast Cablevision as the villain.
Cablevision's offer was its first major effort to deflect criticism from itself.
"What a clever move," John Mansell, an analyst for Kagan World Media, said. "It's really designed for the media, to turn around public sentiment, and I think it does."
The company, which has historically been willing to withstand subscriber anger, has been buffeted by advertising from YES that portrayed it as unnecessarily depriving Yankees fans of their games, and advertising from DirecTV to switch to satellite to receive YES.
Had YES accepted Cablevision's offer, it would have had to redo its existing deals, which would have most likely reduced its revenues.
Without Cablevision's subscribers, YES will be unable to sustain its advertising rates for Yankees games or deliver the expected financial return to its investors, including Goldman Sachs, which owns 40 percent of the network.
Dolan said he was motivated to make his offer because of the absence of negotiations.
"This is a tough issue for us," he said. "I'm not really that interested in going up against DirecTV without the Yankees. We're going to lose some subscribers."
Dolan said he had heard the loud objections of customers demanding that he put YES on basic, but he was also listening to subscribers who do not want their bills to increase because of YES.
"As the C.E.O. of the company, I have to balance the screaming with the fact that there are three million customers out there," he said. "How much of that screaming actually represents the true feelings of the customer base?"
Cablevision said it had experienced a minimal number of disconnects from its service; DirecTV said only that caller volume to its local distributor, American Satellite, had grown 80 percent above normal volume since its YES advertising campaign began on March 11.
Dolan said his company's refusal to carry YES under the Yankee network's terms is based on the network's economics. He said that the valuation of YES at more than $800 million required that it charge cable systems the monthly $2 subscriber fee. The fee is the highest ever for a startup cable network, according to Kagan World Media. (Cablevision customers pay the most in the nation, with average bills of $59.93 a month.)
Regional sports networks are the most expensive on cable, while well-known basic channels like CNN and Lifetime are much cheaper. CNN's monthly fee is 37 cents a subscriber, while Lifetime's is 15 cents, Margo Black of Kagan said.
YES's valuation, Dolan said, "was a fantasy in somebody's mind, with assumptions that weren't grounded in any other valuation we've ever seen."
He added, "The valuation was born during the dot-com fever days when everything was valued at incredibly high numbers."
Hindery derided Dolan's analysis and noted that with 130 Yankees games, YES has more baseball games than Cablevision's MSG and Fox Sports New York services combined. It will also show 75 Nets games next season, as well as minor league Yankees games, taped Manchester United soccer games and college sports.
"It is absurd to suggest that the quality of YES isn't in excess of what anyone has seen in this market," Hindery said.
If, indeed, YES does not appear on Cablevision, it will remind local cable customers of Cablevision's refusal to carry MSG in 1988 and 1989; that dispute was also over whether MSG should be sold as a basic or premium service. Subscribers missed the 1988-89 Knicks and Rangers seasons and half of the Yankees' 1989 season.
Last season, the Time Warner cable system in Southern California blacked out 34 Los Angeles Dodgers games on the Fox Sports West 2 channel and 15 Anaheim Angels games on the Fox Sports West channel because it refused to pay an increased surcharge for the games. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); SPORTS FANS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (85%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%) BASEBALL; TELEVISION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) YES NETWORK; CABLEVISION INC; NEW YORK YANKEES 

PERSON: JAMES L DOLAN (79%) SANDOMIR, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



714 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Trade Chief Trains Cross Hairson U.S. Tariffs 

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, March 26 

 BODY:
The Bush administration has a new bogeyman in Brussels to contend with.
 Last year it was Mario Monti, the European Union commissioner in charge of competition issues, who effectively vetoed the proposed merger of General Electric and Honeywell over antitrust issues. 
 Now it is the turn of Pascal Lamy, the trade commissioner, to lock horns with his American counterparts, in particular over President Bush's decision earlier this month to protect the American steel industry from some imports.
Like Mr. Monti, Mr. Lamy finds himself reacting to a problem thrown at him from across the Atlantic. And like Mr. Monti, he is attacking it with strict application of legal and economic principles. 
But this time around, the stakes are far higher. If the United States and the European Union, the two largest forces in world trade, allow their bilateral problems to escalate into all-out trade war, flows of goods and services worth billions of dollars will be disrupted. But more ominously, the long hard hard work Mr. Lamy and Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, put in to get a new round of global trade liberalization talks under way may be undone, and according to European diplomats and trade lawyers, the World Trade Organization itself could easily become a casualty.
Europe is rapidly running out of patience with America. At the end of last week, Mr. Lamy's department circulated a list of United States export products that it wants to submit to the World Trade Organization as targets for possible retaliatory sanctions if the United States does not agree to pay compensation for the steel tariffs, or better still, scrap them altogether. The list goes into great detail: steel doors, 800-cc motorbikes, grapefruit juice, long-grain brown rice, pantyhose, ballpoint pens and toothbrushes are some of the items that would be hit with punitive 100 percent duties.
Mr. Lamy is quick to acknowledge that the list has been tailored for maximum impact on American domestic politics. The products all come from important battleground states in the coming midterm elections, like Florida. "We have got to be as clever as we can," he said in an interview. "It is a question of efficiency, in order to leverage a change of position in the U.S.
"We want this decision to be reversed. For President Bush the pros for imposing the tariffs outweigh the cons. We have to rebalance this."
Mr. Lamy said he was using the same tactics the United States adopted in an earlier dispute, now resolved, over European restrictions on banana imports. French cheese was included in a list of European products to be hit by United States sanctions because France was thought to have backed a hard line on bananas by the union.
"If Roquefort was taken hostage in the case of bananas, it's not because of the huge importance of Roquefort to the macroeconomic situation in the U.S.," he said.
Mr. Lamy must now decide whether to impose sanctions on the $2.1 billion worth of American exports on his list, which could take effect as early as May. The union has until May 19 to submit the list to the trade organization as part of the group's arbitration process, which generally takes 18 months, but under certain of the trade group's rules he can move much faster than that. A stickler for process and principles, Mr. Lamy said he was still examining the legal basis for such a move.
"There is an option there," he said. "I'm considering it, and I'll take a decision according to my own sense of whether it fits with our strategy, which is abiding by rules. The name of the game is rules, disciplines."
Mr. Lamy's approach has surprised many people since he took up his post in 1999. "When he arrived, people thought, 'Oh no, a French Socialist -- he'll be a protectionist with a hidden agenda to pursue the interests of France,' " one Brussels diplomat said. 
But he has shown little sign of chauvinism. "He has fired some of his most vitriolic comments at his countrymen, including the minister of foreign affairs, Hubert Vedrine," the diplomat said.
As for being a protectionist, his fighting talk in the steel dispute has laid that idea to rest for many. In fact, he is more often criticized for being the opposite, an overzealous crusader for globalization and the free markets, a notion he finds rather amusing given his political allegiance.
Neither does his fierce criticism of American protectionism arise from any instinct toward anti-Anglo-Saxonism, a fashionable attitude in France. "There are lots of things about the U.S. that I admire because of their creativity and productivity," he said in the interview, speaking English fluently. "Steel may be an exception."
Mr. Lamy is well thought of by his opposite number in Washington. "I've known and respected Pascal for some 13 years," Mr. Zoellick said in a telephone interview. "He leads the pack both in the effective representation of E.U. interests and in reasoning through differences skillfully."
Mr. Lamy gives the impression of a man of few passions -- a workaholic and ascetic who favors bread and lentils for lunch and spends leisure time jogging and cycling. "He does come across as frighteningly dry, but a man totally in command of his brief," the diplomat said.
Passion only shows when he talks of his work. "Trade is an advanced continent of world governance, and I think we should nurture it and care for it," Mr. Lamy said in the interview. Whether he gets a chance to do so will depend largely on how he fields the latest problem thrown at him from across the Atlantic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pascal Lamy, Europe's trade commissioner, is ready to do battle with the Bush administration. Billions of dollars in trade are at stake. (Beno T. Pesle/Anzenberger, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); VETO (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); CHEESE (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (86%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); MERGERS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); HOSTAGE TAKING (50%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%) EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%) MELLER, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LAMY, PASCAL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



715 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Says Enron Cure Is in Market,Not Regulation 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said today that the solutions to weaknesses in corporate governance exposed by Enron's collapse rested more with market forces than with new legislation or regulation.
 In his most comprehensive comments to date on the issues raised by the Enron debacle, Mr. Greenspan focused on the consolidation of corporate power in the hands of chief executives, overly optimistic earnings forecasts by stock analysts, a lack of independence among outside directors and efforts by executives to puff up earnings reports. 
 He said some issues were ripe for legislative or regulatory action, especially the accounting rules that allow companies to issue stock options as compensation without counting them as an expense. 
But Mr. Greenspan defended the current approach to corporate governance, with its reliance on trust in the chief executive, as the best available. And he suggested that the market was already disciplining corporations by penalizing the stock and bonds of those that try to deceive investors. 
"After considerable soul-searching and many Congressional hearings, the current C.E.O.-dominant paradigm, with all its faults, will likely to continue to be viewed as the most viable form of governance for today's world," Mr. Greenspan said in remarks prepared for delivery at the Stern School of Business of New York University. 
His comments were consistent with previous statements about the lessons of Enron's downfall and a long-held ideological position that economic and financial problems are often best left to the free market. They seemed directed in part at calls from members of Congress, especially Democrats, for tougher rules on corporate oversight. 
Senate Democrats have proposed legislation that would increase criminal penalties for some kinds of corporate wrongdoing and give state attorneys general additional power to sue companies. Some Democrats have said that a naive reliance on free-market checks and balances of the sort advocated by Mr. Greenspan was at the heart of Enron's collapse.
But the Fed chief suggested that the market was working as it should, if after the fact. He said investors seemed to be awarding higher relative values to companies whose earnings reports were not exaggerated or misleading, and that the reliability of financial statements was being reflected in corporate bond prices.
"Corporate governance has doubtless already measurably improved as a result of this greater market discipline in the wake of recent events," Mr. Greenspan said. 
Noting that "Congress is clearly signaling that more needs to be done," he added that the government should be careful "not to look to a significant expansion of regulation as the solution to current problems."
Regulation, he said, has "proven only partially successful in dissuading individuals from playing with the rules of accounting."
The Fed chairman endorsed President Bush's call for chief executives to be held more directly accountable for corporate financial statements' accuracy. The president's call to define "more clearly the duties of C.E.O.'s with respect to accounting and disclosure appears appropriate," Mr. Greenspan said. The Bush position was largely based on recommendations from the President's Working Group on Financial Markets, a senior economic policy group including Mr. Greenspan.
Addressing the matter of relentlessly upbeat recommendations by stock analysts, he noted "the proclivity of firms that sell securities to retain and promote analysts with an optimistic inclination," especially when the brokerage firm also acts as an investment banker for the company whose stock it is recommending.
But he said Wall Street was responding on its own to deal with the problem through initiatives like a requirement that brokerage firms include in research reports the distribution of their ratings among buy, sell and hold recommendations.
In time, he said, earnings projections by analysts will be more closely scrutinized by investors after the fact, allowing them to judge more accurately which analysts are worth listening to. "I venture to say that with such transparency, the current upward bias of analysts' earnings projections would diminish rather rapidly," Mr. Greenspan said, "because investment firms are well aware that security analysis without credibility has no market value."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Fed chief, Alan Greenspan, discussing corporate governance at New York University last night. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (91%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ETHICS (77%); BONDS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (71%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) CORPORATIONS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; COMPANY REPORTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



716 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Bush Energy Paper Followed Industry Push 

BYLINE:  By DON VAN NATTA Jr. and NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26 

 BODY:
As he helped the Bush administration write its national energy report last year, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham heard from more than 100 energy industry executives, trade association leaders and lobbyists, according to documents released by the Energy Department.
 Mr. Abraham did not meet with any representatives of environmental organizations or consumer groups, the documents show. 
 In a press release on Monday night, the Energy Department summarized the secretary's calendar by saying that Mr. Abraham met with 36 industry representatives on task force matters. Most news organizations reported that figure today. 
But Mr. Abraham actually met with 109 representatives of energy industry companies and trade associations, according to a comprehensive review of his daily calendar from late January 2001 to May 17, 2001, the day the White House released its national energy report. Many of the executives were leaders of corporations that were among the most generous financial supporters of President Bush's presidential campaign and the Republican Party.
Among the individuals and groups that met with Mr. Abraham, 18 contributed a total of $16.6 million to the Republican Party since 1999, nearly three times what they gave to the Democratic Party, according to an analysis of data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics.
Jill Schroeder, spokeswoman for the Energy Department, said the department came up with its figure of 36 industry representatives meeting with Mr. Abraham based on executives who had asked to discuss the work of the task force with Mr. Abraham, who was an influential task force member. But many of the other meetings not counted by the Energy Department also dealt with the executives' interest in topics covered by the national energy policy.
"He's the energy secretary, he meets with these folks about energy issues," Ms. Schroeder said. "It's his job."
Energy Department officials also pointed out that Mr. Abraham occasionally rebuffed energy industry executives. Officials said 23 requests for meetings from industry leaders were denied. Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former top executives of the Enron Corporation, were among the executives who were turned away, officials said. But on March 29, 2001, Mr. Abraham met with two other Enron executives, Joe Hartsoe and Linda Robertson.
And Mr. Lay met with Vice President Dick Cheney, who headed the task force, on April 17, 2001, to discuss energy policy and the California energy crisis. David Addington, counsel to Mr. Cheney, has said that altogether, Enron executives had six meetings with task force staff members in 2001.
A coalition of nearly 30 environmental groups asked to meet with Mr. Abraham to discuss the energy policy on Feb. 20, 2001. Energy Department officials declined the request, citing Mr. Abraham's "busy schedule," department officials said.
But in the days following, Mr. Abraham met with numerous industry representatives, including a top executive of the American Coal Company; the chairman of UtiliCorp United, a power company now known as Aquila Inc.; executives from a half-dozen utility companies; executives from a half-dozen nuclear power corporations and the corporate leaders of ExxonMobil, BP/Amoco, Shell, ChevronTexaco, Anadarko Petroleum and Ashland Inc.
Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said today: "News flash -- no surprise to anybody, the secretary of energy meets with energy-related groups."
Over three days in late February 2001, Mr. Abraham met with six petroleum executives, a railroad executive and the leader of a coal producing company. On Feb. 21, he met with executives of five oil companies, including David O'Reilly, the president of ChevronTexaco, and Steven Miller, the president and chief executive of Shell Oil Company.
The next day, Feb. 22, Mr. Abraham met with John W. Snow, the chief executive of the CSX Corporation, one of the nation's largest railroad companies. According to Mr. Abraham's calendar, the meeting's topics included "the role coal plays in electric utility generation, mountaintop mining and the National Energy and Environmental Technology Act."
Mr. Abraham also met with a number of energy industry lobbyists, including Haley Barbour, who represents utility companies, and Tom Kuhn, the executive director of the utility industry trade group, the Edison Electric Institute.
Mr. Abraham's calendar was among the 11,000 pages of documents that Democratic lawmakers and environmental groups said today demonstrated that the administration sought the advice of utility companies, oil companies and the producers of natural gas, coal and nuclear energy in developing its energy policy.
Congressional Democrats and environmental groups have long argued that the administration relied on advice from industry leaders while spurning environmentalists who were arguing for conservation, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency measures. Today, the groups said that Mr. Abraham's calendar has proved that suspicion.
"The documents indicate that great deference was given to energy industry executives and lobbyists and almost none was given to the environmental industry and the concerns of consumer groups," said Larry Klayman, chairman and general counsel of Judicial Watch, the legal watchdog group and one of several groups that sued executive branch agencies for the documents' release.
The boxes of documents released by the Energy Department include hundreds of internal e-mail messages that are heavily edited. Other apparently benign e-mail messages are entirely blank; some blank pages have tantalizing titles like, "Importance: High." The Energy Department also failed to print out e-mail attachments; one was titled "proposed energy policy language."
Energy officials cited an array of exemptions to the Freedom of Information Act, including internal deliberations about policy and personnel matters.
Leaders of the two groups that sued to get the documents said today that they would ask federal judges to review the full texts of the edited documents and press for their complete release. They also complained that the Energy Department refused to release an additional 15,000 pages of documents.
"There is a lot missing," said Sharon Buccino, a senior lawyer at the Natural Resources Defense Council, another organization that sued to get the records. "We have 11,000 pages of scrubbed, purged and sanitized documents. Even despite those efforts to hide the documents, they are littered with evidence of industry access."
Ms. Schroeder said that all outside documents submitted to the Energy Department were made public. "What we have withheld is not any kind of communication between D.O.E. and anyone on the outside but discussions inside the administration about what the report should say," she said. "It is standard practice not to produce information about such discussions."
The documents include papers from industry representatives about the relationship between gasoline consumption and air pollution. The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers noted in a report to the Energy Department on March 22, 2001, that "fuel economy standards are an ineffective energy policy."
The federal task force essentially accepted that argument. Instead of calling for new fuel efficiency standards, it recommended only that new standards receive further study.
And the energy policy report warned that increases in fuel efficiency had to be done "without negatively impacting the U.S. automotive industry."
The Energy Department noted that the National Mining Association asked for an overhaul of the New Source Review program, an Environmental Protection Agency regulation that requires power plants, oil refineries and other industrial plants to meet new emissions standards when they undertake a major upgrade of operations. The energy industry has fought the regulation for years, claiming it lacks clarity.
The Bush administration is now trying to overhaul the rule, a move that has touched off debate between the Energy Department and the Environmental Protection Agency, and within the agency itself.
Ms. Schroeder said that other Energy Department officials met five environmental and consumer groups -- the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, the Sierra Club, Environmental Defense, Resources for the Future and the American Wind Energy Association. And she said five other groups did not respond to a request for comments, including the World Wildlife Fund and Greenpeace.
Gary Skulnik, a Greenpeace spokesman, said yesterday that "a low-level staffer called us on March 22, 2001, and gave us 24 hours to provide any input we had on energy policy." The organization decided not to scramble to meet the tight deadline. 
"If they were serious about getting input," Mr. Skulnik said, "that was certainly not the way to go about it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry Klayman, chairman of Judicial Watch, meeting with reporters yesterday about the newly released but heavily edited Energy Department documents that his group and others had sued to obtain. (Associated Press) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Meetings With the Energy Secretary"Many of the companies and organizations that met or spoke with the energy secretary, Spencer Abraham, before the Bush administration's energy policy report was released last year are among the most generous political donors in the energy industry. The 18 companies that were among the top 50 givers have donated a total of $16.6 million to Republican candidates since 1999. Graph tracks political contributions since 1999* to Republicans and to Democrats EnronRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 1Dates of contact (2001): March 29 ChevronTexacoRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 3Dates of contact (2001): Feb. 21 El PasoRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 4Dates of contact (2001): Feb. 13, March 29, April 5 ExxonMobilRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 5Dates of contact (2001): April 25 BPRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 8Dates of contact (2001): Feb. 23 ExelonRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 12Dates of contact (2001): March 20 Reliant EnergyRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 13Dates of contact (2001): March 29 Edison Electric InstituteRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 18Dates of contact (2001): Feb. 14 Entergy CorpRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 19Dates of contact (2001): March 20 Anadarko PetroleumRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 23Dates of contact (2001): Feb. 21 AshlandRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 26Dates of contact (2001): Feb. 21 CMS EnergyRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 30Dates of contact (2001): March 20 CinergyRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 31Dates of contact (2001): Feb. 14 American Electric PowerRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 34Dates of contact (2001): Feb. 14 Nuclear Energy InstituteRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 35Dates of contact (2001): March 20 Kerr-McGeeRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 36Dates of contact (2001): April 26 Duke EnergyRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 37Dates of contact (2001): March 20 Pinnacle WestRank among top 50 energy industry political contributors: 38Dates of contact (2001): March 29 *Through March 11.(Sources: Energy Department documents meetings ; Center for Responsive Politics contributions ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); CALENDARS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ETHICS (68%) ENERGY AND POWER; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (81%); AMERICAN COAL CO (60%); GREAT PLAINS ENERGY INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (82%) ENERGY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: GXP (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (81%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (60%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (60%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (60%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (60%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (60%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%) VAN NATTA, DON JR; BANERJEE, NEELA; ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002 



717 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: ONLINE SHOPPER; 
Dream Car, Dream Colors? A Dream Indeed

BYLINE:  By Michelle Slatalla; E-mail: Slatalla@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ONCE I owned the cutest car in America: a sporty red 1989 Honda Civic, fun to drive with a peppy four-speed manual transmission. 
But buying it was a nightmare after the dealership's "closer," whose name sounded like Shanker, tried to browbeat us into a sunroof and rustproofing. So when we needed another car a few months later, we bought the ugliest car in America, figuring the dealer would be too relieved to get rid of it to give me a hard time. It was a milky beige Honda Civic similar in color to chipped-beef gravy. This car was such a leftover that even Shanker did not push for a floor-mat upgrade. 
 Over the years, it picked up dents in long-term parking at LaGuardia. The dents rusted. Then a speaker cover fell off, causing tangled wires to spill out like uncoiled intestines when you opened the driver's door. 
 That car is still in my driveway, a testament to how much I dread the car-buying process. 
But against my will, I must get a second car this spring to replace a leased Audi station wagon. And I know nothing can eliminate the stress of the confusing, high-pressure negotiation between a smooth car dealer and an amateur buyer struggling to understand the nuances of "the XC AWD Trim Line" or the hidden costs of add-ons like the "Touring Package With Interior Air Quality System." 
So last week I joined the 62 percent of American new-car buyers who, according to a recent study by J. D. Power and Associates, turn to the Internet for information. In fact, people who buy their vehicles through an online buying service save an average of $500, according to Chris Denove, the senior director of automotive research at J. D. Power. 
First I visited two pricing and comparison sites, MSN Carpoint (www.carpoint.com) and Edmunds .com, to compare station wagon models. Both sites gave me identical blow-by-blow comparisons of the invoice prices the dealer pays, the sticker prices the dealer posts on the cars, and vehicle equipment and options. In addition, Edmunds.com offered a True Market Value price, the average national selling price for any particular model. 
At both sites, I also requested referrals to local dealers, who within 24 hours sent me e-mail or phoned to try to get me to visit their showrooms. Their phone manners ranged from pleasant (an Audi seller) to shifty (a Volkswagen seller who, when I phoned a few days later, was "no longer with this company"). 
Then I headed to the ConsumerReports.org site to purchase New Car Price Reports for three models ($12 for the first report, $10 for each subsequent report). The crucial bit of information is the dealer's true cost for the vehicle, the "wholesale price" that takes into account any financial incentives from the maker. 
Based on ConsumerReports.org's reviews, I decided to buy a Volkswagen Passat wagon, rated on the site as the top family car. 
Next I went to Volkswagen's site, at vw.com, to create my own car. With a few clicks, I had "built" a handsome indigo blue GLX wagon with beige leather and a peppy five-speed manual transmission. The buggy VW site then crashed my computer. I ignored that. When I returned to figure out how much this car would really cost, the site's payment calculator told me $57.91 a month. I disregarded that as well. 
Then I went to CarsDirect.com, the only direct seller online, to get a price quote. CarsDirect.com assigns a sales specialist to each customer who requests a car. From among the site's more than 3,800 partner dealers nationwide, the specialist searches for the vehicle a customer wants. Unlike a dealership, which is structured to move the cars on its lot, CarsDirect.com is happy to sell any car, regardless of make. 
My goal, based on advice from my Consumer Reports price report, was a five-speed GLX wagon for less than $28,940. Edmunds.com set the market value slightly lower, at $27,871. 
After a few clicks, CarsDirect.com delivered a firm quote: $28,304. With a few more clicks, I applied for a loan (revealing information like my name, address, phone number and Social Security number). 
That same day, a helpful, polite CarsDirect.com sales specialist phoned to confirm my order, which would not become binding unless I authorized a deposit. My loan application had been approved, for a 6.19 percent, 36-month loan from one of CarsDirect.com's partner lenders. 
"That's it?" I asked. "I'm approved?" 
"That's it," he said. 
To complete the transaction, he said, all I would have to do would be to visit a partner dealer once, sign papers, hand over my money and drive away in the indigo-blue-with-beige-leather vehicle. 
I was feeling empowered. Thanks to the Internet, I knew exactly which car I wanted and exactly how much it should cost and had even arranged the loan. 
The only hitch? The car didn't actually exist. Instead, the CarsDirect .com representative offered me three choices: 
1. A blue, automatic-transmission wagon with gray leather instead of beige, which I could get from a partner dealer in New Jersey. 
2. A blue automatic wagon with beige leather, which I could go to Boston to get from a partner dealer who had located that car at another, unnamed dealership. "But that car may have up to 300 miles on it, from being driven to Boston," I was warned. 
3. A factory order for the five-speed I wanted, which might take 12 or more weeks to arrive at the New Jersey dealership. By then, the lease on my other wagon would have expired. 
Was I getting the runaround? I phoned Volkswagen headquarters and found out that CarsDirect.com was right: no blue-beige GLX five-speeds were available. Anywhere. Last week, only 54 five-speed GLX wagons were on dealers' lots in the entire United States, a spokesman said. And none was blue. There were, however, two blue-beige five-speed GLX's on boats, coming to customers who had placed special orders. 
Where did this leave me? Disappointed. I felt betrayed by the Internet for raising my expectations without being able to deliver, thanks to the ease with which I had gotten specs and prices, applied for and been accepted for a loan and built a specific car. 
Reality, however, was far colder. The man from CarsDirect.com (who listened sympathetically for 30 minutes as I explained my situation to him) agreed that I shouldn't order a five-speed unless I first took one for a test drive; but there was no five-speed to test drive anywhere near my house. 
This brings me back to the ugliest car in America. According to the Kelley Blue Book site, it's worth only $2,275. But sitting in my driveway? It's priceless. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Kopecky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (86%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (68%) AUTOMOBILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: SLATALLA, MICHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



718 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Virtual Game Weapons Bought With Real Money 

BYLINE:  By MARC WEINGARTEN 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
KEN SELDEN is having a red-letter month selling goods on the Internet. He has unloaded about 400 million pieces of silver, a sanctified claymore and a lot of women's clothing, among other things. His total take is about $9,000. But the merchandise is strictly digital, nothing more than words written on a computer screen.
 Mr. Selden is a mighty financial force for the roughly 20,000 players of GemStone III, an online swords-and-sabers role-playing game in which thousands of people gather daily to interact in a medieval domain. The goal is to advance your character, or avatar, accumulating virtual wealth and new armor by hunting monsters, raising the dead or opening boxes of treasure. 
 Players can advance more quickly by using potent weapons that make their avatars stronger. And for those who lack the time or patience to acquire the goods within the game's confines, Mr. Selden provides an answer in the material universe. 
Buying up merchandise and virtual currency from those abandoning the game, Mr. Selden resells the goods to eager players, often for a handsome profit. In doing so, he has established an exchange rate between game currency and the dollar, emerging within the GemStone subculture as equal parts Alan Greenspan and J. P. Morgan.
"Half the people thought I was ruining the game," he said, "and the other half thought it was the coolest thing they'd ever seen."
Mr. Selden is not the only entrepreneur capitalizing on Web gamers' lust for hard-to-obtain virtual merchandise. Bustling real-money markets thrive on bulletin boards and sites including playerauctions .com, devoted to popular role-playing games like Dark Age of Camelot and EverQuest. 
What makes GemStone III unusual is that unlike the new generation of role-playing games like EverQuest, with their elaborately matrixed 3-D renderings of virtual worlds, GemStone is a low-tech, text-only game whose merchandise exists only as descriptions, along with the coding that makes them functional -- not images. (The game, which costs $12.95 a month, is at www.play.net.) Everything -- a "4X blessable ax with extra silvery cobwebs across the blade," a "6X exceptional padded breastplate" -- is an imaginary construct. Still, game players are willing to spend hundreds of dollars, even thousands, for vestigial goods. And more often than not, the seller is Mr. Selden. 
Mr. Selden, a 43-year-old father of three boys who lives in Studio City in the San Fernando Valley, said his profit from selling items on GemStone III had allowed him to take a sabbatical from his career as the writer and director of such films as "White Lies," starring Rosanna Arquette, and network movies-of-the-week. A Cleveland native and Yale graduate, Mr. Selden said he had made close to $100,000 last year selling goods to fellow GemStone III players, and that this year looks promising as well. 
Mr. Selden's customers tend to be older professionals who lack the time to play for 10 hours at a stretch and who use their real-money acquisitions as a shortcut to keep up with the hard-core contingent. 
GemStone, one of the first multiplayer online games, was introduced in 1988 as a feature of General Electric's online service, Genie. Players paid $2.95 an hour at night and $11.95 an hour during the day. "At that point about 30 people, including me, were playing the game," Mr. Selden said. "When people left the game for good, usually to sign on to EverQuest, they would try to recoup the money they spent by selling the items they had accumulated." Mr. Selden, an armchair economist whose first job out of college was building economic forecasting models for a company called Data Resources, kept a close watch on those auctions, looking for trends. 
When Mr. Selden observed a bidding war for a piece of armor in which the asking price quickly ballooned from $500 to $9,000, he realized that the prices were arbitrary. So in 1998 he decided to buy a "dead account" -- one left dormant after someone permanently logs off the game -- for $2,500. Using the items acquired from the account, Mr. Selden held two auctions: one inside the game, where players could bid with silvers, the virtual currency, and another outside the game, for cash. 
"I discovered that people tended to pay the same amounts inside the game as they did out of it," Mr. Selden said. This was a crucial revelation, as it allowed him to determine an exchange rate, which he estimated at $65 per million silvers. The rate quickly became the lingua franca of GemStone III's marketplace. Using this rate, he sold all of the items from the dead account and made a $5,500 profit. 
Mr. Selden kept acquiring dead accounts and selling the items individually until he had become the wealthiest player in the game. Now he functions as a kind of high-end warehouse for GemStone III players. Because GemStone III is a vintage game, some items have become rarities, and Mr. Selden has just about all of them. He also has three sales representatives who hawk some of this merchandise within the game for commissions. 
Simutronics, the Missouri-based company that runs GemStone III, is aware of Mr. Selden's thriving business. But the company, which advocates a level playing field for the game, holds that selling fake goods for real cash distorts the spirit of fair play. "We don't in any way support this sort of thing," said the company's executive vice president, Neil Harris. But Simutronics does not try to prevent players from buying items. "It's a simple case of supply and demand," Mr. Harris said. "We do our best to maximize the skill element, but you can't legislate it away. If players really want something, they're going to get it." 
Other game companies have been less permissive. In January of last year, Sony Online Entertainment, which runs EverQuest, prevailed on eBay and Yahoo to cancel all auctions of EverQuest items, asserting that the transactions were a violation of the game's end-user licensing agreement, which states that Verant Interactive, a Sony subsidiary, "shall retain ownership of all intellectual property rights." 
"From the player's standpoint, I can understand that there's an eminent domain issue, which is basically, 'I produced the goods, so I can do what I want,' " said Edward Castronova, an associate professor of economics at California State University at Fullerton who has written a paper on EverQuest called "Virtual Worlds: A Firsthand Account of Market and Society on the Cyberian Frontier." "But the game runners have a public-goods argument. They need to create an atmosphere of play for the collective good, and if they allow the buying and selling of items, that collective good could be ruined." 
Meanwhile, Mr. Selden dreams of the day when he can become the Federal Reserve of all Internet games. "I want to create a cross-game currency exchange," he said. "I'm actually working on a site now with a few people. But I don't know the other games as well as GemStone. Guess I'll have to start playing them." EverQuest players, lock up your safe-deposit boxes. 

Going, Going, Gone
The price tags on a few coveted GemStone III commodities sold online recently by Ken Selden:
$1,100 -- A long knife for use against evil undead creatures in perpetuity.
$900 -- A large, meaty bone used to summon wolves to do the player's bidding. 
$700 -- Extremely supple black leather body armor that protects against certain spells. 
$150 -- A talisman that casts advantageous spells when rubbed. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: CORNERING A DOMAIN -- Ken Selden of Studio City, Calif., has turned a big profit selling virtual accessories for the game GemStone III. (Marissa Roth for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); VIRTUAL REALITY (75%); COMPUTER GAMES (75%); WRITERS (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (67%); FILM DIRECTORS (62%) COMPUTER AND VIDEO GAMES 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) WEINGARTEN, MARC; SELDEN, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



719 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Making a New Home Where Darkness Fell 

BYLINE:  By JOHN LELAND 

 BODY:
ANTHONY RICCI was drawn by the ruin and the recovery. In March, he let the lease expire on his apartment on East 54th Street and moved to Battery Park City, where he looks out on the empty sky where the World Trade Center towers used to be. "I wanted to be part of the resurrection," said Mr. Ricci, 36.
Samir Merghoub and Rachelle Maouchi wanted to stay uptown. But the co-ops they looked at were too small, too expensive or both. Finally a real estate agent pushed them to bid on a one-bedroom on Rector Street, just southwest of the site of the attacks. "I thought I was in a strong bargaining position," said Mr. Merghoub, 31, sitting among cardboard boxes in his new living room. "Then I ended up paying $1,000 over the asking price."
 Patricia Rockmore said she was drawn to the sadness. In January, after living most of her adult life on Park Avenue, Mrs. Rockmore, 65, moved to a studio apartment on John Street, four short blocks from ground zero. "It was a new beginning," she said. "I felt drawn here. Is that crazy?" 
 Just six months ago, residents of the area surrounding the World Trade Center fled their homes on foot, evacuating apartments that were without water, electricity or telephone service, and streets buried under dust and rubble. Many swore they would never go back. The occupancy rate in the Battery Park City complex, which has 6,400 apartments, fell to 60 percent, from near capacity. Projections for the neighborhood were dire.
But now a new cohort of New Yorkers is starting to move in. Some are drawn by the promise of bargain apartments, others by the gaping wound left by the attacks.
Private developers and government agencies have offered incentives to attract new residents and keep old ones. The Battery Park City Authority has offered $15.6 million in incentives to residents living there or moving in by June. The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the agency created by Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to oversee the recovery of downtown, has proposed grants of up to $12,000 for residents who commit to living below Chambers Street and west of Broadway for at least two years. (The proposal is subject to approval by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.)
The newcomers have helped revive the downtown real estate market, which had been falling even before Sept. 11, several agents said. In Battery Park City the occupancy rate has risen to about 75 percent. Though co-op and condominium prices are still below pre-Sept. 11 levels, they have been inching back since the new year. "Now downtown is not acting differently than the rest of the market," said Pamela Liebman, chief executive of the Corcoran Group, who added that her company had handled 48 sales below Canal Street since mid-November, at prices of $450,000 to $2.375 million. Ms. Liebman noted the return of bidding wars in several recent sales.
The newcomers recall the neighborhood's earlier settlers, who followed a sense of adventure and the scent of a bargain to a cityscape others found forbidding. As Mr. Merghoub said, one week into life among his new neighbors, "When I saw the attitudes of the people in the neighborhood, they were like, 'We're not going to leave -- we're going to rebuild this better than before.' "

'Like Going to Church'
In her new home on John Street last week, Patricia Rockmore pulled a street map of Manhattan from her handbag. Though she has lived in the city since college, Mrs. Rockmore, who is a partner in a SoHo advertising firm called Patty & Toshi, is still learning her way around the irregular maze of her new downtown neighborhood.
On the morning of Sept. 11, Mrs. Rockmore was in her temporary home in the Hotel Wales on Madison Avenue when she received a call from her daughter Sicily, who told her to turn on the television. Her daughter lived on 120 Greenwich Street, opposite the World Trade Center. Debris was flying by her window, she told her mother. She was terrified. Then the line went dead.
Over the next few weeks, as a cathartic exercise, Mrs. Rockmore drew arrows on a city map, marking the route by which her daughter fled uptown, shaken but unharmed. She went with her daughter to look at her daughter's old building, which is still uninhabitable. Against the enormity of the destruction, a smaller detail nagged at her: the shuttered windows of the small businesses, ruined not by the attack but by the economic exodus that followed.
Mrs. Rockmore, who has been separated from her husband for five years, was then dividing her time between Southampton and the Wales. She loved the Upper East Side; the shopkeepers reminded her of Italy. But as she started to look at apartments there, she felt something was missing. In December her daughter suggested she look downtown.
"I used to come down here for Century 21," she said, referring to the popular discount store. "When I started looking around, it just felt right." She looked at 100 John Street, not far from the arrows she had drawn on her map. She offered her deposit the next day. The rent was $1,795 for about 600 square feet plus a terrace. She did not try to haggle. "Maybe I should have pushed, but I didn't feel like it," she said.
Moving downtown has helped her to make sense of the event. "It's selfish to say, but it's a healing process for me," she said. "Just to go into a candy store and make a contribution to the neighborhood, I'm happy to do it."
In her small, modern living area, she keeps a copy of "When Every Moment Counts: What You Need to Know About Bioterrorism From the Senate's Only Doctor," by Senator Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee. She said she goes to ground zero once a week, "almost like going to church."
Mrs. Rockmore said this reminder felt humbling but right. "I needed to be in reality," she said. "This is reality down here, because you're in it every day."

'Don't Want to Live Downtown'
Samir Merghoub and Rachelle Maouchi were talking on the telephone when the first plane hit the World Trade Center. She was living in Metz, France, looking forward to joining him; he was just blocks away from ground zero in his office at Goldman Sachs, where he is a senior analyst in global operations. He remembers feeling the impact as the plane hit the second tower, the sky outside his window turning black, the walk through a neighborhood in ruin.
The couple had looked for apartments over the summer, mostly uptown or in Midtown. But the prices were so high, the square footage so low. When they resumed their search in late fall, a real estate agent suggested they look downtown.
"We were both very apprehensive," said Ms. Maouchi, 29, who works at Dexia Credit Local in Midtown. Mr. Merghoub saw the destruction in the neighborhood every day, going to and from work. "This place was horrible," he said. "You could smell it for the first three months." Ms. Maouchi suffers from allergies to dust, acute enough that she carries an inhaler. "I told my real estate agent, no, no, I don't want to live downtown," Mr. Merghoub said.
But as the couple hunted uptown, Mr. Merghoub watched daily the remarkable pace of transformation around the financial district. Streets that were closed or covered in debris one week were clean the next. The dust and odor cleared from the air.
When they saw the condominium on Rector Street, the agent urged them to bid right away. It was bigger than what they had seen uptown, and less expensive: $275,000 for about 600 square feet. They bought it for $1,000 more.
After a week in the apartment, the two are surprised by the angles from which their emotions buffet them. One night last week, they spotted a line of ambulances outside their window. They had to wonder if the work crews had come across a cache of human remains.
"I'm still shocked," Ms. Maouchi said. The health club in the building looks over the excavation site, and she said she has mixed feelings when she goes up there. "I would feel guilty if our apartment looked over ground zero, taking advantage of what happened."
Mr. Merghoub moved gently beside her. "I think the opposite," he said. "We should feel good. We're contributing to the community."
It felt like a conversation the two had had before, and would have again. It belonged to the push-and-pull of their new life near ground zero.

'I Wanted to Be Around It'
In the back of his mind, Anthony Ricci is still "mildly concerned" about the air quality around his new home in Gateway Plaza, the six-building complex in Battery Park City most damaged by the explosions and smoke. "I'm leaning toward OSHA's announcements that the air is O.K.," said Mr. Ricci, who helps run health and wellness programs for employees at Pfizer. "But I don't want four years down the road to be paying health consequences."
Mr. Ricci said he had wanted to move downtown before Sept. 11. He loved running along the Hudson River; he liked the light and the mood in the area. After the attacks, his commitment grew only stronger. As he saw it, the worst was over; now began the flood of resources, emotional and financial, into the area. "I'm a huge fan of history," he said. "I wanted to be around it. What happened there drew me."
"I prefer not to lose sight of what happened," he added.
When he saw the studio in January, he scrutinized it for signs of dust. Then he went back a week later and checked again. Satisfied, he signed a lease in January on the 450-square-foot apartment, at a rent of $1,313. He committed even before the incentive programs were announced.
Mr. Ricci said the resolve and purpose that swept the city after Sept. 11 were still in evidence among the loyalists downtown.
And though many people fled the horror of history in the neighborhood, he said he felt safe. "I definitely do think something like this could happen again," Mr. Ricci said. "But not there. That's one of the more secure places at present."

GRAPHIC: Photos: RESETTLERS -- Anthony Ricci, left, moved downtown in part to live close to the memory of Sept. 11. Samir Merghoub and Rachelle Maouchi, above, found a home they could afford. Patricia Rockmore, left, was drawn by the sadness and by a chance to be part of the healing. Right, looking northeast from Mr. Ricci's Gateway Plaza building, two blocks from ground zero. (Photographs by Abe Frajndlich for The New York Times; lower right, Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. F4); REVERSING THE TIDE -- For Patricia Rockmore, above, living near ground zero is therapeutic. Anthony Ricci, right, wanted to be part of the recovery; far right, the view toward the site from his Battery Park City building. (Photographs by Abe Frajndlich for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); TERRORISM (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); APPROVALS (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%) HOUSING; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (50%) LELAND, JOHN; ROCKMORE, PATRICIA; RICCI, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



720 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
One theory on why itseems easier to buy a house in the nation's 'red' zone.

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel; Virginia Postrel is the author of "The Future and Its Enemies" and is writing a book on the increasing importance of aesthetics in the economy and society. E-mail: vpostrel@dynamist.com.

 BODY:
ARE there really two Americas, the "red" conservative heartland and the "blue" liberal coasts? Extrapolating from the 2000 election results, political commentators like to think so. The electoral map has morphed into a mental map, a shorthand for different regional cultures.
 But one of the biggest differences between red and blue America may have less to do with cultural attitudes and more to do with family budgets. Buying a house is a lot easier in "red America," for reasons that reflect politics as much as economics. 
 In most of the country, housing is not especially expensive. The median house value is $120,000, according to the 2000 census, and 63 percent of single-family detached homes are valued at less than $150,000.
"The norm is a world in which people are living in houses that are between 1,500 and 2,000 square feet, and they are paying around $120,000 for them, which is darn close to construction costs," said Edward L. Glaeser, a Harvard economist. "The growing edge cities of America are a world in which land is pretty close to free, and people just build like mad -- economy housing at 60 bucks a square foot. That's the red America world."
Construction costs do not vary that much nationwide. Even in New York City, new construction runs only about $110 a square foot in a typical apartment building of 8 to 24 stories. That would imply a price of $165,000 for a new 1,500-square-foot apartment, something New Yorkers can only dream of.
So why is housing affordable in most places and so expensive in others? Professor Glaeser and Joseph E. Gyourko at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania examined this question in a new working paper for the National Bureau of Economic Research. (The paper can be downloaded at post.economics.harvard.edu/hier/2002papers/HIER1948.pdf.)
The answer obviously has something to do with land prices. One possibility is that land is expensive simply because people really want to live in places like California and New York City. Since the amount of land is fixed, if demand is high, prices will rise.
In test after test, however, the two economists found that demand alone did not explain the difference in prices. For starters, many fast-growing areas did not show skyrocketing house prices.
"There are a lot of high-growth places in North Carolina, Florida, Texas, etc.," Professor Gyourko said. Those places offer amenities like good weather and lots of jobs, he said, but "they don't have high house or land prices."
In their paper, the economists compared two ways of looking at the price of land. Suppose you want to calculate the value of a quarter-acre. One way is to take the difference in price between a house on a quarter-acre lot and the same house on a half-acre lot. A second way is to take the price of a house on a quarter-acre and subtract the construction cost of the building, leaving just the value of the land.
In an unrestricted land market, those two prices should be about the same, since each represents the value of a quarter-acre of land. When the economists did the two land-price calculations using statistical controls and a large set of housing data, however, they found very different results in places where housing is particularly expensive.
In Los Angeles, for instance, going from a quarter-acre to a half-acre lot for the same house costs about $2.60 a square foot, or roughly $28,000. But a quarter-acre lot with a house on it, minus the cost of the house, comes to almost 12 times that -- $30.44 a square foot, or about $331,000.
The difference represents the value of the right to build. Going from a quarter-acre lot to a half-acre lot in Los Angeles does not give you the right to build a second house.
The difference between the land prices is the implicit cost of all the local land-use controls, from zoning to the time it takes to get a permit. Some regulations simply raise the cost of building by slowing down the process. Others limit density, making it illegal to subdivide expensive land.
"If I look around me in Cambridge," Professor Glaeser explained, "there are a large number of $3 million houses on one-half of an acre. Cambridge is also filled with $1 million town houses on a 20th of an acre. If you're an enterprising developer, if you're not stymied by zoning regulations, you tear down the $3 million house, you use the half an acre, and you put up 10 town houses."
Presto: You've made $7 million, minus construction costs, and Cambridge has added nine units to meet the rising demand for housing. If land could be subdivided, that sort of process would happen whenever land prices became high.
But it cannot happen in Cambridge, or most other places in "blue America," because of land-use regulations. The result is soaring prices.
That's fine, of course, with people who already own their homes. "The overwhelming political story is that the majority of homeowners have absolutely no interest in there being affordable housing," Professor Glaeser noted. "The overwhelming reason that we have the web of zoning controls that we have is that local homeowners are powerful over their local areas, and they want to make their housing as expensive as possible."
In undeveloped areas, the political dynamic is different. "There's some farmer named Bob who's very eager to have his land subdivided, and he's the voter," Professor Glaeser said.
On reflection, however, his co-author suggested that perhaps there is more to it than voters acting in their economic self-interest. Places like Charlotte, N.C., and Las Vegas seem able to grow and grow without ever setting off land-use protectionism.
"Outside of the coastal areas of California and the Amtrak Northeast Corridor, you don't see this phenomenon," Professor Gyourko said. "It may be that the civic culture is really different in those areas." Maybe there really are two Americas. "One allows development, and the other puts a lot of restrictions on it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A subdivision in suburban Las Vegas, a fast-growing region of the country. A new study suggests housing is more affordable where there are fewer land-use restrictions. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICS (78%); ZONING (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUDGETS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); MENU PRICES (64%); CENSUS (56%) HOUSING; ZONING; LAND USE POLICIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA; GLAESER, EDWARD L (PROF); GYOURKO, JOSEPH E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



721 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Military Suppliers and Financial Companies Lead Climb

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Military contractors and financial companies led shares higher yesterday.
 Boeing and United Technologies paced the Dow Jones industrial average after a trade journal reported that the Pentagon would loosen restrictions on the profits its suppliers could earn. 
 "Today is kind of a snapshot of what's occurred in the first quarter," said Rimas M. Milaitis, who manages the $900 million Strong Growth and Income Fund. "Everyone has attempted to anticipate an economic recovery, buying the cyclical stocks." 
The Dow rose 73.55 points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,426.91.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 6.09 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,144.58, with financial shares, like the Citigroup stock, accounting for more than one-third of the gain.
The Nasdaq composite index added 2.58 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,826.75.
Three stocks rose for every two that fell on the New York Stock Exchange while advancing and declining shares were about even on the Nasdaq.
Optimism about the economy has surged in recent weeks. That has helped the shares of manufacturers, basic materials companies and energy producers, Mr. Milaitis said.
The Dow has risen 4.1 percent this quarter, led by General Motors' 24 percent rise. Boeing is the second-biggest gainer, adding 22 percent.
The S.& P. 500 has lost 0.3 percent in the quarter, heading toward what would be its sixth losing quarter in the last eight. The Nasdaq has dropped 6.3 percent so far this year.
Boeing, the largest aerospace company, rose $1.54, to $47.33, and United Technologies, which makes Pratt & Whitney jet engines, advanced $1.75, to $73.75. They were the two biggest gainers in the Dow.
Lockheed Martin advanced 92 cents, to $58.15, near a record high.
The trade journal, Defense Daily International, reported that the Defense Department might allow contractors to earn greater profits. The Pentagon currently caps profit margins at 15 percent.
Among the financial stocks that advanced, Citigroup, the biggest financial services company, gained 85 cents, to $50. American Express, the fourth-largest credit card issuer, climbed 59 cents, to $41.19, and the insurer American International Group added 70 cents, to $72.29.
Oil stocks rallied after oil inventories had their biggest decline since October. Exxon Mobil rose 21 cents, to $43.95. United States shares of Royal Dutch Petroleum gained 65 cents, to $54.10, and ChevronTexaco added $1.50, to $90.50.
Home-building stocks declined after a Commerce Department report showed new-home sales rose less than expected in February.
Toll Brothers lost $1.61, to $50.90; Beazer Homes USA fell $2.81, to $79.30; Lennar dropped $2.20, to $53.45; D. R. Horton lost $1.51, to $38.25; and Centex fell $1.49, to $52.98. --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
 By Reuters
 Treasury bond prices rose for a second session yesterday as recent comments by Federal Reserve officials soothed worries that the central bank might soon raise interest rates.
A $25 billion auction of new two-year notes -- matching the record size of recent months -- met with the best demand in three months. The Treasury auctioned the new two-year note that was priced to yield 3.705 percent, nearly two percentage points above the 1.75 percent federal funds rate. By late in the day, in when-issued trading, the note's price rose enough to lower the yield to 3.655 percent.
The price of a 10-year note was unchanged at 96; its yield was 5.34 percent. The 30-year bond fell 3/32 , to 94 21/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposition direction from the price, rose to 5.76 percent from 5.75 percent on Tuesday.
Here are the results of yesterday's two-year note auction:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 99.847
High Yield: 3.705%
Low Yield: 3.610%
Median Yield: 3.670%
Accepted at low price: 95%
Total applied for: $56,915,536
Accepted: $32,873,496
Noncompetitive: $1,458,100
Interest set at: 3 5/8
The two-year notes mature Feb. 29, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (89%); BOND MARKETS (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); NEW HOME SALES (76%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); CREDIT CARDS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (62%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (54%); PRATT & WHITNEY (53%); BEAZER HOMES USA INC (51%); CHEVRON CORP (51%); D R HORTON INC (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); UTX (NYSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); RDSA (LSE) (62%); RDSA (AMS) (62%); RDS.B (NYSE) (62%); RDS.A (NYSE) (62%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); LMT (NYSE) (54%); BZH (NYSE) (51%); CVX (NYSE) (51%); DHI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (62%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (53%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (51%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (51%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



722 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: PBS Scrambles to Pull Together 'Wall Street Week' 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
For the next few months, "Wall Street Week" without Louis Rukeyser may look more like a reunion of cast members rather than the updated financial talk show that PBS executives have in mind.
 After Maryland Public Television dropped Mr. Rukeyser as the host of the Friday evening program he created 32 years ago, its producers had to scramble to pull together a cast in a hurry. This week's program was scheduled to be taped today instead of tomorrow because of the Good Friday holiday. 
 They could not choose among the 22 analysts and money managers who made regular appearances alongside Mr. Rukeyser. That group, showing allegiance to Mr. Rukeyser, who hopes to have a program elsewhere on television, banded together and decided not to participate, two of them said.
Catherine Wood, a money manager who had been scheduled to be Mr. Rukeyser's featured guest this week, also backed out. Ms. Wood did not return calls seeking comment.
Mr. Rukeyser, 69, balked last week at the station's plan to revamp the program and bring in new co-hosts to attract more and younger viewers. After announcing that he would end his involvement with the program when his contract expired in June, Mr. Rukeyser criticized the station's handling of the change at the start of last week's program, calling it an "ambush."
On Sunday, the station said it had dismissed him for those remarks, saying that he had "violated the journalistic standards of the show."
So, starting Monday, the producers had to replace a host, a guest and find three new panelists who would travel to a studio in Owings Mills, Md., to tape the 30-minute program. In a pinch, they rounded up what may be the oldest cast the program has ever had.
Marshall Loeb, 72, a former managing editor of Fortune and Money magazines who writes for "CBS MarketWatch", will be the host. The three panelists will be Julius Westheimer, 84, a former stockbroker in Baltimore who writes about personal finance; Bernadette Murphy, a longtime technical analyst who said she "was retired" from the show a couple of years ago after appearing on it for 23 years; and James Grant, 55, the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer.
"It seems like a strange way to start the youth movement -- with three dinosaurs," said Mr. Grant, who appeared on the program from 1987 to 1997.
Mr. Grant said that he did not feel the need to pick a side in the breakup between Mr. Rukeyser and Maryland Public Television. "I'm a friend of both the husband and the wife of this divorced couple," he said.
For a featured guest, the station turned to Gus Sauter, who manages indexed stock mutual funds for the Vanguard Group. Mr. Sauter, who at 47 will be the youngest person on the program, eagerly accepted the invitation because he thought the format of "Wall Street Week" would give him time to explain the benefits of indexing, said Brian Mattes, a Vanguard spokesman.
Jeff Hankin, vice president for marketing at Maryland Public Television, said that Ray Brady, a retired economics correspondent for CBS News, had agreed to fill in as a host while the station revamps the program. It was scheduled to have its debut in the fall as "Wall Street Week With Fortune" with Geoffrey Colvin of Fortune magazine as the co-host. But Mr. Hankin said the producers now hoped to have it ready by late June. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); JOURNALISM (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); EASTER SEASON (70%); NEWS REPORTING (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TELEVISION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: VANGUARD GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MARYLAND PUBLIC TELEVISION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: MCGEEHAN, PATRICK; RUKEYSER, LOUIS; LOEB, MARSHALL; WESTHEIMER, JULIUS; MURPHY, BERNADETTE; GRANT, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: WALL STREET WEEK (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



723 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Tbilisi Journal; 
In Post-Soviet Georgia, Sweet Stench of Success

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia, March 26 

 BODY:
This town stinks. For that, Giya Khiazaneishvili gives thanks.
 From a second-floor office suffused with the rank, faint fragrance of decaying eggs, Mr. Khiazaneishvili happily counts his blessings: seven days a week of business; 85 customers a day, on average; at least 10 lari, or about $4, per customer -- often twice that. 
 All for the coveted, if difficult-to-explain, pleasure of an hour's soak in a marble tub of steaming, malodorous sulfur water.
"I'm not sorry for it," he said between drags of a long, thin cigarette. "All the city's here."
He exaggerates, but not by much. Having survived near-fatal brushes with Communist engineers and capitalist economics, Tbilisi's famed sulfur baths are enjoying a spirited resurgence. Whereas a decade ago there were perhaps 15 sulfur baths serving the city's 1.4 million or so residents, today there are scores of them, from the sprawling bathing palaces of Tbilisi's ancient center to little two- or three-tubbers in the ticky-tacky suburbs.
One could attribute this to growing wealth (unlikely; the average teacher's monthly paycheck might buy a five-hour soak). Or consider the obvious: since Georgia's economy collapsed in the mid-90's, taking the city's decrepit heating plants with it, most Tbilisi homes have had no hot water. A hot soak is much in demand. 
But Mr. Khiazaneishvili believes otherwise. He argues that Georgians' post-Soviet entrepreneurship and the legendary powers of sulfur have combined to return the city's residents to the centuries-old habit of filling lungs and pores with hot, noxious fumes. 
"It has a curing effect," he said. "It helps all the joint diseases, like rheumatism, and it helps with skin diseases. Some people even drink it. They claim it's good for your stomach." 
Like a lot of Tbilisi's sulfur-bath lore, this may or may not be true. Consider their origin: Tbilisi's warm sulfur springs -- even the city's name comes from the Georgian word for "warm" -- were first noted in chronicles written in the ninth century, by Arabs who then ruled Georgia.
But Georgians cling to a less prosaic tale of their discovery. It seems that the fifth-century Czar Vahtang Gorgasaly was hunting when his falcon dropped a captured bird. Servants later found it in a bubbling spring, boiled and ready to serve.
Deeply impressed, the czar decided to move Georgia's capital there. His 16th-century successor erected a grand bathing complex on the site.
If that seems fanciful, no one disputes the original splendor of the domed bathing complexes, near the Kura River in downtown Tbilisi. "Not since my birth have I witnessed such luxuriousness as at the Tbilisi baths," the great Russian writer Aleksandr S. Pushkin wrote in 1829.
More than two decades later, the French author Alexander Dumas spent six weeks in Tbilisi, most of it, being washed, massaged or dipped in tubs of stinking water.
"My lungs were incapable of inhaling those fumes," he wrote in "Caucasus," his 1853 travel book. "I had to get used to it gradually, having left the door ajar and creating a kind of mixed atmosphere for myself." 
He quickly adjusted. "Why does not Paris, the city of physical pleasures, have such baths?" he lamented.
At their height, there were more than 140 sulfur bathhouses here, big pools for the great unwashed to cozier retreats for the rich.
But in later Soviet days, they began to decline. Mr. Khiazaneishvili said they nearly vanished in the 1970's when teams of engineers, drilling for oil and tunneling for Tbilisi's subway, set off collapses that led Czar Gorgasaly's original springs to dry up altogether.
Workers later drilled wells as deep as 10,000 feet to find the sulfur-water sources that now sustain the original baths. 
Much of the ritual Dumas described remains a part of the Tbilisi bath tradition today. A first-class visit includes a prolonged soak in warm water -- between 85 and 105 degrees -- followed by a rubdown by a "scrubber," a hefty man with a bucket of sulfur water and a coarse loofah with which he reduces a customer's skin to little wads of damp dough.
There follows a soap bath, a coating of thick, silky suds rubbed gently into the newly exfoliated body. A quick, warm shower, and the client is ready for tea -- or, perhaps, another warm bath. 
The czar's baths, since parceled out by the government to private owners, remain the biggest, most famous and most lucrative. Mr. Khiazaneishvili, a bath administrator for Tbilisi's city council in Soviet days, claimed a chunk of them. including a fantastic 500-year-old Arabic-style building that sits above the tubs. 
"It's all the original structure," he said. "Much has been restored, but a lot is still operating."
Alas, much of the grandeur that Dumas celebrated has faded. Ten lari admits one to the public bath, a dreary communal affair. A typical 20-lari bath is a closet-sized room of once-white marble, yellowed by sulfur and age, little changed since Brezhnev's days.
Then again, 60 lari, or about $24, commands a sumptuous, fully restored bath, with an anteroom, a sauna, hot and cold tubs and a marble bed for the scrubber's work. 
In Tbilisi, that is a lot of money. Needless to say, Mr. Khiazaneishvili believes it is worth it. 
"Of course, you can heat water and wash yourself at home. Maybe it is even more convenient. But here," he said, utterly deadpan, "the atmosphere is different."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A "scrubber," Natik Imam-Kuli, pouring hot sulfur water on a marble bed at the Khiazaneishvili baths in Tbilisi, Georgia. The baths are housed in a 500-year-old building elaborately decorated in Persian mosaic. (Michael Wines/The New York Times) Map of Georgia highlighting Tbilisi: The sulfur baths of Tbilisi, Georgia, are enjoying a resurgence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SUBURBS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); SKIN DISORDERS (62%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%) SULFUR AND SULFUR COMPOUNDS 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) GEORGIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) GEORGIA (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC); TBILISI (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



724 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Judge Moves to Speed Along Lawsuit Over Managed Care 

BYLINE:  By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
A federal judge in Miami has allowed a group of managed care companies that have been accused of fraud to ask an appeals court for an immediate ruling on whether they are open to racketeering claims, a move that lawyers for both sides said could speed a final decision.
 The judge hearing the case, Federico A. Moreno of Federal District Court, ruled last month that the lawyers who represent health plan subscribers could proceed with claims of fraud under the Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act against Aetna, Cigna and United Healthcare. Humana is also a RICO defendant under an earlier ruling. 
 The plaintiffs contend that the health maintenance organizations violated the racketeering law by conspiring to withhold medical care and by not telling H.M.O. members that doctors were rewarded financially for doing so.
The insurance company lawyers said the RICO claims, on behalf of millions of health plan subscribers, should be dismissed. That view was upheld two years ago by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Philadelphia.
In his latest ruling, issued late Tuesday, Judge Moreno agreed with the defendants that the RICO issue raised an important legal question, "whether a managed care subscriber who has not actually been denied care can state a claim under RICO," and said the issue could be sent at once to the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta. By resolving the issue, the appeals court would "permit the parties to avoid unnecessary, protracted and expensive litigation," he said.
For one thing, the defendants might not have to open insurance company records for examination by the plaintiffs' lawyers. Miguel Estrada, a Washington lawyer for Aetna, said that without the racketeering claims, the lawsuits "basically shrivel up."
"There's very little left of the case," he added.
But Stephen Neuwirth, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said that "if there is misrepresentation of the coverage when you buy an insurance policy, you can overpay" and suffer economic damage. He said a ruling by the appeals court could "validate our claim going forward." 
Earlier this month, the appeals court in Atlanta upheld several rulings by Judge Moreno in a separate group of suits on behalf of doctors. Those suits also made RICO claims against the H.M.O.'s. The judge had said some of the claims should be settled by arbitration and others by litigation. 
The judge has not yet ruled on requests by the plaintiffs to have both sets of cases declared class actions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (93%); JUDGES (92%); LITIGATION (91%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); CONSPIRACY (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SUITS AND LITIGATION; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; HEALTH INSURANCE; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; RACKETEER INFLUENCED AND CORRUPT ORGANIZATION ACT (RICO); DOCTORS 

COMPANY: CIGNA CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AETNA INC; CIGNA HEALTHCARE; UNITED HEALTHCARE CORP; HUMANA INC 

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%)

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT; MORENO, FEDERICO (JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



725 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Homes Rise in Much of the U.S. 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27 

 BODY:
Good weather motivated people to house hunt and favorable financing moved them to lock in deals, spurring a solid increase in new-home sales in February.
 The Commerce Department reported today that sales of new single-family homes last month came to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 875,000, a 5.3 percent increase over January's level. 
 Buying a house is often followed by significant spending in areas like furniture and appliances. Given that, economists are optimistic that consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of all economic activity in the United States, will hold up fairly well in coming months and speed national economic recovery. 
"There's a tremendous multiplier effect of buying a home," said Richard Yamarone, an economist at Argus Research. "Step 1 is buying a home. Steps 2 through 5 are putting things in it and redecorating."
By region, new-home sales rose 9.9 percent in the South, to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 410,000 in February. In the West, sales went up 6.7 percent, to a 240,000 pace. But Northeast sales fell 10.1 percent, to a pace of 62,000, and in the Midwest, sales dipped 0.6 percent, to an annual 163,000.
Economists cited low mortgage rates, good weather, increases in home values and generally good consumer attitudes for helping to lift home sales over all.
The median price of a new home fell 2.4 percent in February from January, to $179,600, but rose about 6 percent from the month a year earlier.
The average interest rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage in February was 6.89 percent, down from 7 percent in January, according to Freddie Mac, the mortgage company. But mortgage rates, as tracked by Freddie Mac, have climbed in the last three weeks. The average rate on a 30-year loan rose last week to 7.14 percent.
In January, new-home sales plunged 15.8 percent, a drop that many economists called a fluke and were hard pressed to explain. At the same time, sales of previously owned homes soared to a record. .
Early this week, the National Association of Realtors reported that sales of previously owned homes dipped 2.8 percent in February. Still, the annual pace of 5.88 million homes sold was the second-highest monthly level on record.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New-Home Sales"Annual rate in thousands of new private homes sold during month, seasonally adjusted. Graph tracking the annual rate of new private homes sold since September 2000. Monthly ChangeFeb.: + 5.3%Jan.: -15.8Dec.: + 5.3 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); INTERIOR DECORATING (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%) HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



726 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: BUILDING DESIGN; 
Report Sees Lower Towers That Can Empty Faster

BYLINE:  By JAMES GLANZ 

 BODY:
Whatever is rebuilt on the World Trade Center site must be secure against much more sophisticated bioterrorism attacks than the nation has yet seen and, because of both safety and economics, should be no more than 50 or 60 stories tall, according to a new study by the nation's leading engineering organization.
 The study, by the Construction Institute of the American Society of Civil Engineers, offers a first glimpse of the effect the attacks are likely to have on the physical structure and insurance costs for a renewed trade center and perhaps for other large buildings. 
 The study also recommends that all buildings at the site be designed to accommodate mass evacuations. Until now, the practice has been to assume that just a few floors would be evacuated at a time. 
Any 100-story skyscraper would require extra-wide stairwells to accommodate a mass evacuation, the report says, and the lost floor space would make the buildings unprofitable. The resulting recommendation of shorter heights is sure to be resisted by some architects and others devoted to tall buildings.
The reconstruction of the trade center will be "a kind of primer for the 21st-century engineer," said Robert F. Borg, chairman and founder of the institute's committee on social and environmental concerns and the chief writer of the new study.
"We contractors and engineers are going to be practicing our profession differently now, based on what we've learned at the World Trade Center," said Mr. Borg, who is also chairman of Kreisler Borg Florman, a construction company.
The study, which has been completed but not yet published by the engineering society, presents early indications that the attention to security and safety in anything built on the trade center site will probably be like that in few other existing buildings.
Experts in building construction and design say, however, that those new buildings may not be at all untypical of high rises built anywhere else in the country after Sept. 11. The same experts also say that much of the technology, if not the demand, for making the improvements has been available for years, particularly in the case of protecting against biological and chemical terrorism.
"A lot of these things should be done as a matter of course, should be even mandated," said Bruce Fowle, a partner at Fox & Fowle Architects, the Manhattan firm that built the 48-story high rise at 4 Times Square and is working on the new building for The New York Times on Eighth Avenue.
Expensive as those measures may be at the trade center, they will simply be the cost of doing business, said Larry A. Silverstein, the developer who has rights to the site and wants to rebuild the center. 
"They're going to be buildings which will have a considerably greater factor of life safety built into them than existing buildings," Mr. Silverstein said in an interview Tuesday. The findings of the study are "totally consistent with what one would expect," he said.
Biological and chemical attacks top the list of threats that the new buildings must protect against, according to the report, titled, "Rebuilding the World Trade Center."
The biological attacks of last fall aroused a high level of fear by sending anthrax powder through the mail, but, experts pointed out, it could be more deadly to put the substances directly into a building's ventilation system through an intake vent.
Many buildings are now vulnerable because their intakes are easily accessible and unmonitored, and the filter systems cannot stop the extremely fine particles that carry anthrax and other biological and chemical agents.
"We should think twice about how we bring fresh air into the buildings" built at the trade center site, said Marvin Mass, chairman of Cosentini Associates, a mechanical, electrical and plumbing firm in Manhattan, who was consulted on the report.
Mr. Mass said some buildings near the site, including Stuyvesant High School, had already started installing high-efficiency filters simply to remove fine pollution particles from the indoor air.
It can cost millions of dollars, Mr. Mass said, to fully rework an existing building to filter out all biological and chemical agents, move and monitor intake vents, and keep internal air pressure just high enough to prevent terror agents from being sucked in through the small cracks around windows and doors.
When those measures are woven into the original design, however, the extra costs are far lower, said William Blewett, a mechanical engineer at the United States Army's Edgewood Chemical Biological Center at Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland. Still, some measures, like special charcoal filters to catch certain chemical agents, are likely to be expensive even if they are taken into account in early designs of new trade center buildings, Mr. Blewett said.
The Construction Institute report touches on two dozen other social and environmental issues concerning the rebuilding, from environmental effects of the materials to the construction's effect on regional transportation patterns.
In considering the problems presented by a situation seldom contemplated before last fall -- the sudden need for everyone to leave an extremely tall building at once -- the study says escape stairwells might have to be so wide that there would not be enough real estate left to turn a profit. The report suggests that the solution would be to design lower buildings. 
At the trade center itself, where planners have already declared it unlikely that the reconstruction will involve 110-story towers, that conclusion may cause little controversy. The same may not be true of the report's wider implications.
"We engineers have to think in terms of building heights that may be no longer worth achieving, even though they may be technically feasible," Mr. Borg said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (91%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); WRITERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (83%) AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS 

PERSON: GLANZ, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



727 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Despite Economic Dip, State Needs More Power Plants, Group Says 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 27 

 BODY:
Despite the destruction of the World Trade Center and the economic downturn, New York's appetite for electricity has not slowed significantly, and there is still a dire need for new power plants, the managers of the state's power grid said today.
 The New York Independent System Operator forecast peak demand statewide this summer of 31,475 megawatts, near the high of 31,983 recorded last Aug. 9, when the system was pushed dangerously close to its limits across the Northeast. As in recent years, Long Island will have less breathing room than any other part of the state, followed by New York City. 
 By 2005, New York should build an additional 7,100 megawatts of power supply to ensure reliability, keep prices down and protect air quality, the Independent System Operator projected. That is about 1,000 megawatts less than it said a year ago should be built. The I.S.O. is a nonprofit group formed by the state and power companies to manage the transmission system and hold the auctions in which electricity is bought and sold, daily and hourly. 
William J. Museler, the group's president, said his organization had updated last year's report largely to counter a widespread perception that the Sept. 11 attacks and the slowing economy had put an end to a mounting electric power crisis.
"The reality of the situation is that the energy crisis we talked about last year is still with us," he said. "Things have gotten better in a number of ways, but the fundamental situation which we pointed out is still in front of us."
Power producers and environmentalists, who are often at odds, agreed with the group's conclusion that there remained a strong need to find more sources of power.
"We also believe the energy crisis has not gone away, because it's a long-term thing, not a short-term thing," said Ashok Gupta, an energy analyst at the Natural Resources Defense Council.
Gavin J. Donohue, executive director of the Independent Power Producers of New York, said, "We need more power plants now."
A major new power plant has not opened in New York for a decade, and a year ago, many people in the industry said the state's creaky process for approving plants was the single biggest obstacle to addressing the supply shortage. That process has since been greatly accelerated, and experts say the biggest problem now is finding financing for new plants in a post-Enron era when power markets are not as attractive to investors.
The state's Siting Board has approved six major projects -- either new plants or significant expansions of existing plants -- that, combined, would increase supply by 3,700 megawatts. Three are in New York City. But none of the six will be completed until next year or later, and at least one is stalled because of financing problems.
Last year, the State Power Authority hurriedly installed 10 miniplants around New York City and one on Long Island, to raise the supply by more than 400 megawatts, and Long Island officials are encouraging installation of more such plants there this year.
During last August's heat wave, the state took a number of steps, like asking big industrial customers to shut down and encouraging hospitals and office buildings to switch to their diesel backup generators, that reduced demand on the grid by up to 1,500 megawatts.
Mr. Museler said the trade center destruction would depress peak demand for power in New York City by 90 megawatts, less than 1 percent of the citywide total, because most of the customers moved elsewhere in the city. That is far less than earlier estimates. 
The I.S.O. also warned that the drought could complicate matters for the power supply this summer, because plants use water for cooling. The agency said that with less melting snow and lower water levels in rivers and lakes, the water would be warmer, and, as a result, more water would be needed to cool the plants.
New York's power plants can deliver up to 36,000 megawatts, more than 4,000 above this year's projected demand. But planners like to have more of a cushion, in case equipment breaks down. Mr. Museler said an additional 7,100 megawatts would also increase competition among suppliers, lowering peak prices by 25 percent.
Environmentalists are also interested in seeing new plants built because they emit a tiny fraction of the pollution created by older plants, are more efficient and might push some of the old ones out of business. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ENERGY SITING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); APPROVALS (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (57%); AIR QUALITY (54%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK INDEPENDENT SYSTEM OPERATOR 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



728 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Short of Money, Boston Drops Lawsuit Against Gun Industry 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: BOSTON, March 27 

 BODY:
Citing financial concerns, the City of Boston today became the first city in the nation to drop its lawsuit against the gun industry voluntarily.
 The case was scheduled to go to trial in September, but Mayor Thomas M. Menino and the city's health commission called it off today, saying a trial would be too expensive, given the weak economy in the city. 
 The case was expected to be the first to go to trial. The city sued gun manufacturers, distributors and trade groups in June 1999, saying they were responsible for gun violence. 
The suit sought damages for the municipal costs of gun violence. Sixteen similar suits are pending, involving 25 other cities.
"It is a very sad day, but I think Boston is encouraging other cities to carry on, and we think they will," said Dennis Henigan, legal director of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a Washington organization that helps litigate the suits.
In its suit, Boston cited negligence in marketing and distribution, poor gun design and the failure of the industry to keep guns from criminals. There were 31 defendants, including the manufacturers Taurus International Manufacturing and Glock Inc. Smith & Wesson initially was named, but later settled.
The suit was withdrawn from Suffolk Superior Court, Mr. Menino said, after the sides agreed to a joint resolution that calls for the industry to devote more resources to combating gun violence in Boston.
Gun rights proponents applauded the move.
"It indicates they should have never brought the lawsuit to begin with," said James Baker, the National Rifle Association's chief lobbyist. "It's a lesson that other cities ought to take. Criminals are responsible for their own actions, not manufacturers of legal products."
There have been 21 similar suits in recent years, Mr. Henigan of the Brady Center said, but no city has voluntarily backed out before. Courts have dismissed cases brought by New Orleans, Miami, Bridgeport, Conn., and Camden County, N.J. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (97%); LITIGATION (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); NEGLIGENCE (78%); DAMAGES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (73%); FIREARMS WHOLESALERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%) FIREARMS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; GUN CONTROL 

COMPANY: TAURUS INTERNATIONAL (55%); SMITH & WESSON CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BRADY CENTER TO PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%); NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (55%)

PERSON: MENINO, THOMAS M (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (97%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) BOSTON (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



729 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Budget Plan By McGreevey Raises Doubts 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 27 

 BODY:
Before presenting his first budget proposal on Tuesday, Gov. James E. McGreevey promised to end the state's bad fiscal habits of excessive borrowing, profligate spending and reliance on one-time measures to increase state revenues.
 But state legislators and Wall Street analysts said today that the $23.66 billion spending plan proposed by Mr. McGreevey included some of the same flaws that have plagued New Jersey's budgets for years: understating the actual amount of state spending, using overly high predictions of state tax revenues and using one-time revenue sources for operating expenses. 
 In political terms, Mr. McGreevey accomplished a difficult balancing act by managing to close a projected $5.3 billion shortfall without resorting to the kind of broad-based sales and income tax increases that led to a taxpayer revolt against a Democrat in 1990. In doing so, however, Mr. McGreevey's plan relies heavily on both borrowing and nonrecurring sources of revenue. Those moves have brought criticism from bond analysts who have been urging the state to take substantive steps to cut spending. 
Officials from the state treasurer's office were scheduled to meet on Thursday with analysts from major bond rating firms to answer questions about the spending plan. While the governor's aides are confident that they can win support for the plan in the State Legislature, where Democrats control the Assembly and the Senate is split 20 to 20, it is not clear whether they can convince bond agencies not to lower the state's bond rating.
At Moody's Investors Service, which downgraded New Jersey's bonds early this month, analysts said Mr. McGreevey deserved credit for promising to close corporate tax loopholes that cost the state more than $500 million in revenue annually.
But Timothy Blake, a municipal analyst for Moody's, said the weakness of Mr. McGreevey's budget plan was that it relied heavily on one-time sources of revenue, from depleting surpluses in several funds for state retirement health benefits to selling bonds against proceeds of a tobacco settlement.
New Jersey's tax revenues have dropped sharply in the last year because of the recession and the Sept. 11 terrorist attack. And its budget deficit ballooned to $3 billion in the fiscal year ending June 30 because of big spending increases by the governor and legislative leaders last year.
"The reason we downgraded was the recognition that in the current political climate, the budget was unlikely to include either a significant tax increase or substantial cuts in spending," Mr. Blake said. "And if you look at this budget, you still have a multiple-year structural budget gap." 
As he described the proposal during his speech before the State Legislature on Tuesday, Mr. McGreevey said he was proud to have presented a balanced budget plan without proposing a major tax increase. He said he had tried to dole out painful cuts to those most able to absorb them: for instance, eliminating property tax rebates for families with annual incomes of more than $200,000 but preserving them for the middle class and expanding them for senior citizens.
"I did not balance this budget on the backs of hard-working families," he said.
The governor also took credit for reining in spending: he made all department heads impose an across-the-board 5 percent budget reduction, froze aid to school districts and municipal governments, and trimmed more than $130 million in capital construction projects.
But budget analysts in Trenton and on Wall street said today that Mr. McGreevey understated the growth in spending, which his budget said rose just 1.5 percent over last year. The actual spending growth proposed in Mr. McGreevey's budget is double that rate, they said, because his proposal does not include $325 million in health care costs that would be paid for by diverting contributions to the unemployment insurance fund. Mr. McGreevey's proposal also compared his proposed spending with last year's budget proposal, rather than the actual expenditures, which were far lower.
Analysts said the budget was also based on several highly optimistic projections. Mr. McGreevey's budget assumes that the state will get $78 million in federal financing for nursing home costs and a senior citizens' prescription drug plan, but no funds have yet been committed. The governor's budget also projects a 6.7 percent rise in personal income taxes, which Colleen Woodell, a managing director of Standard & Poor's, said was among the most optimistic of any state.
Senator Leonard Lance, a Republican from Hunterdon, said he was disappointed that Mr. McGreevey had not been able to fulfill his promise to change the state's budgeting process and with its reliance on the tobacco bonds for a one-time infusion of $1 billion. "Our continuing reliance on bonding is, in my opinion, extremely poor governance," he said. "Jim McGreevey did not begin it, but he continues it unabated."
Wall street analysts appeared less troubled by the tobacco bonds than by the state's spending, however. 
Mr. McGreevey's budget does include several measures that will increase revenue in future years. In addition to closing the tax loopholes, he called for $75 million in increased fees for motor vehicle registrations and other state agencies. And his proposal to increase the state cigarette tax to $1.30 a pack, from 80 cents, bringing the average price to $4.50 a pack, will also add $220 million a year to the state treasury.
But New Jersey faces escalating costs for health care, debt service and the state payroll, and it is unlikely that the governor will be able to freeze aid to localities and schools two years in a row. Ms. Woodell said S.&P. had assigned New Jersey a negative outlook early this year but would wait until the final budget was adopted before deciding whether to downgrade the state's bonds.
"In some ways, the tobacco bonds are fine, because it buys them additional time to grow out of its problems or come up with a way to address the issue of long-term spending control," Ms. Woodell said. "But eventually, there is going to have to be more controls on spending."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After Gov. James E. McGreevey read to schoolchildren in Woodbridge Township, N.J., he answered questions about his budget. Some legislators and analysts have raised doubts about his plan. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); RECESSION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



730 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Ex-Global Crossing Worker Accused of Making Threats
The F.B.I. arrested a disgruntled former employee of Global Crossing and charged him with using the Internet to post threats to injure or kill company executives and to display personal information, including the Social Security numbers, of nearly 2,000 of the company's employees.
 The arrest ended a five-month investigation into the activities of Steven William Sutcliffe, a 40-year-old former technical support worker at Global Crossing's offices in Beverly Hills, Calif. Federal agents arrested Mr. Sutcliffe in Manchester, N.H. Page C2. 

G.M. to Revive a Muscle Car Icon
General Motors said it was reviving the Pontiac G.T.O., an American muscle car icon, by modifying a sports coupe it sells in Australia. The old G.T.O., whose models spanned from 1964 to 1974, was the first of a string of muscle cars popular in that era that appealed to young men looking for affordable cars with plenty of horsepower. C3.

Mitsubishi Motors is replacing its Japanese president with Rolf Eckrodt, the highest-ranking Mitsubishi executive appointed by DaimlerChrysler, its biggest shareholder. World Business, Section W.

Hospitals Unable to Meet Demand
After years in which they closed beds and laid off workers, many hospitals are struggling to cope with surprising increases in the number of patients. Some are being forced to turn away ambulances. At others, emergency room patients who are admitted wait hours or even days for rooms. A1.

Industry-Tinged Energy Policy
A review of documents released by the Department of Energy showed that several recommendations from energy industry representatives were written into the White House's national energy report and into an executive order signed by President Bush. A18.

Old-Economy Stocks Bolster Dow
Military contractors and financial companies led stocks higher. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 73.55 points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,426.91. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 6.09 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,144.58. The Nasdaq composite index added 2.58 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,826.75. C7.

'Wall Street Week' Replacements
For the next few months, "Wall Street Week" without Louis Rukeyser may look more like a reunion of cast members rather than the updated financial talk show that PBS executives have in mind. C7.

Pepsi Promotes Lemon-Lime Drink
Pepsi-Cola has hired Janusz Kaminski, a two-time Oscar winner for photography for "Saving Private Ryan" and "Schindler's List," to direct a commercial for its Sierra Mist lemon-lime soft drink. The spot begins appearing this weekend in theaters. Advertising. C6.

New-Homes Sales Up 5% Last Month
The Commerce Department reported that sales of new single-family homes last month came to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 875,000, a 5.3 percent increase over January's level. Good weather and favorable financing helped buyers lock in deals. The median price of a new home fell 2.4 percent in February from January, to $179,600, but rose about 6 percent from the month a year earlier. C3.

Goldman Appoints Vice Chairmen
The Goldman Sachs Group, one of the biggest and most profitable investment banks on Wall Street, appointed three senior executives to be vice chairmen and promoted other executives to assume their roles. The moves shed light on who might eventually succeed the three men who now run the firm. C7.

Where It's Easier to Buy a Home
A big difference between the "red" conservative heartland and the "blue" liberal coasts may have less to do with cultural attitudes and more to do with family budgets. Buying a house is a lot easier in "red America" for reasons that reflect politics as much as economics. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,426.91 UP 73.55Nasdaq composite -- 1,826.75 UP 2.5810-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.34% Unch.The euro -- $0.8727 DOWN 0.0042The dollar -- 132.69 yen DOWN 0.10 Graph tracking the sales of new homes since September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (71%); ENERGY REGULATION (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (64%); SOFT DRINKS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 7211 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (57%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



731 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Not the Best of Times, but Manhattan Hotels See Encouraging Signs 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR

 BODY:
At the W Hotel in Times Square one recent evening, Oksana Baiul, the Olympic figure-skating champion from Ukraine, went slinking through the lobby in a short black dress and a pearl necklace. Nearby, John Corbett of HBO's "Sex and the City" was standing close to a real estate developer who was hobknobbing with Elizabeth Jagger, Bridget Hall and other supermodels.
 The hotel staff, decked out in designer clothes, served Champagne and hors d'oeuvres. 
 It did not look like the worst of times.
But few are ready to call it a full rebound. After all, the number of hotel rooms occupied in Manhattan was at its lowest level in seven years this January. But, despite dire predictions after the World Trade Center attack, the frenzied atmosphere at the W Times Square and many other hotels in Manhattan is giving hope to those in the industry. 
The average occupancy rate in February 2002, at 74 percent, was only 1 percentage point lower than it was in February 2001, according to HotelRevMax, a research firm. Other analysts have slightly less rosy numbers, but none suggest the doom-and-gloom scenarios of late last year predicting that occupancy would be down 10 to 15 percentage points.
Analysts and hoteliers say that the increase in business has come at a cost and that the packed hotel rooms mask the lost jobs, deep discounts on room rates and other tough decisions hoteliers have had to make since the attack -- not to mention the coming challenges.
"We are not out of the woods yet," said Guy Hensley, a vice president at Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, which operates the W Times Square. The hotel opened in December and already surprised analysts with a 55 percent occupancy rate in February.
In this environment, it seems the hotels that are a part of larger chains, like the W Hotel in Times Square, are doing much better than their competitors. In bad economic times, industry analysts say, large chains can consolidate certain functions among their hotels to cut costs and use their combined sales resources to grab business from competitors. 
At Grand Hospitality, the owner of the SoHo Grand and the TriBeCa Grand, the owner, Emmanuel Stern, has been able to cut costs by combining corporate sales, reservations, human resources and catering services without eliminating any guest perks. At the Ritz Carlton in Battery Park, which opened in the fall, officials have been able to use its national reservation system to get corporate business travel that seems to be eluding many of its other competitors near ground zero.
At Starwood, which operates five W's in Manhattan and six other hotels, Barry S. Sternlicht, the chairman and chief executive, has personally overseen moves and consolidations intended to cut costs and drive up occupancy without making severe layoffs.
Starwood was able to persuade Lehman Brothers, which was displaced from its offices in the World Financial Center, to take over the entire 655-room Sheraton Manhattan on Seventh Avenue. The 11 Starwood hotels in Manhattan have begun to share human resources and reservations operations. The W Tuscany on East 39th Street even closed for six weeks. As workers took a six-week layoff, Starwood retained many guests by directing them to other W Hotels, where occupancy rates were boosted by the move.
"For us, New York appears to be leading the nation out of the recovery, and there is no question that the scale of the company has helped in the downturn," said Mr. Sternlicht, whose company operates more than 730 hotels in 80 countries.
The W Times Square also hired 400 employees, many of them people who were laid off after the terrorist attack.
According to John Fox, a hotel industry analyst at PFK Consulting, the new demand induced by rate cuts has led to the rehiring of 3,400 of the estimated 5,000 workers laid off after the attack. 
Still, hotels have cut rates so deeply to entice guests that there have been sharp drops in revenues. The average room rate in February 2002 was $202.82 compared with $232.04 last year, according HotelRevMax, and is not expected to recover any time soon. 
The cuts are having the most impact on high-end hotels carrying a lot of debt. At the Bryant Park Hotel, for example, room rates are nowhere near the $550 that it was charging when it opened on Valentine's Day in 2001. Guests can get a room for $199 a night and in some cases less.
"Room rates are basically reset," said Sean Hennessey, director of the hospitality and leisure consulting practice at PriceWaterHouseCoopers. "They are not going to bounce back for a couple of reasons, and those whose business models rely on high room rates to pay off debt and for amenities could be in trouble."
Among the reasons for concern is many companies worked out annual corporate deals in September and October and the city has had trouble attracting international tourists, who tend to spend more money. 
In February, the city's hotels lost an estimated $8 million despite being virtually as full as they were during February 2002.
Mr. Hennessey said that he was troubled by several factors in the coming months and years.
New hotel construction combined with the reopening of establishments shuttered after the attack will add more than 2,200 rooms to the market by November, when a Westin Hotel is scheduled to open at West 43rd Street and Eighth Avenue. Without added demand, this new supply could weaken occupancy rates at other hotels, Mr. Hennessey said.
There is also some concern, particularly downtown, that an estimated to 2 to 2.5 percent of the rooms occupied are being used by Federal Emergency Management Agency workers, displaced residents, volunteers and others connected to the attacks. "There is definitely going to be a be a vacuum at hotels south of 24th Street," Mr. Hennessey added.
Ian Schrager, chairman and chief executive of the Ian Schrager Hotels, which operates the Royalton and the Paramount, said he was most concerned about the fact that room rates had been slashed so deeply and that they were not likely to recover soon. Now he believes that the fear has subsided. "It was unfortunate that everyone had to follow the pack," he said. "Right now, if we had not cut room rates, we would have high occupancy and be able to bring in a lot more money," he said.
But most hotel operators believe that cutting the room rates was the right way to go. They credit the city's convention and visitors bureau, NYC & Company, with pushing discount packages to the regional travelers within 500 miles of the city. The hoteliers also said that the warm weather and lack of snow or rain helped improve the numbers in January and February, two of the toughest months for tourism even in good economic times.
The president of NYC & Company, Cristyne L. Nicholas, who took a three-day trip to Berlin this weekend to promote the city, said she was focusing on getting back international tourists, who tend to spend more money than domestic visitors. Ms. Nicholas cautioned that there was not much money left to spend on tourism-related advertising. 
"Tourism is rebounding quicker than what was forecasted," Ms. Nicholas said. "But we still have a long way to go, and it is not an entirely rosy picture."

GRAPHIC: Photo: People checking in yesterday at the W Hotel in Times Square. The hotel, which opened in December and had a 55 percent occupancy rate in February, hired 400 employees, many of whom had lost jobs after Sept. 11. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LAYOFFS (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); RESORTS (73%); CATERING SERVICES (73%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); ICE SKATING (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: HOT (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (66%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



732 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: THE SKI REPORT; 
Some Ups and Downs In Winter That Wasn't

BYLINE:  By BILL PENNINGTON 

 BODY:
If anyone needed more evidence that we are living through the most incongruous winter/early spring weather in generations, here are some facts from the last week:
 In urban and suburban areas throughout the country, most golf courses were open and sales for sunscreen and lawn fertilizer were booming. Meanwhile, at Jay Peak in Vermont, there has been four feet of snow in the last three weeks. Oregon's Mount Hood got six feet of snow in 10 days to increase its season total to 526 inches. At Whiteface Mountain in the New York Adirondacks, with recent powder softening the mountain's renowned steep trails, there is a move afoot to change the name to Niceface. 
 For me, this snow-sports season began with a pathetic, largely fruitless search for a single snowy trail during the week after Thanksgiving. Three months later, after plowing my driveway once (and that was only because I was bored), we are having the best snow of the season. Go figure.
There are a few lessons to be learned. To start, regardless of droughts, monsoons or global warming, some of the best skiing and riding of any season will always be in March and April, and the wise and worldly know it. Try, for example, to get a room in Vail, Colo., this weekend.
More significantly, it is clear that nothing about the winter season was what it seemed.
After the Sept. 11 attacks, after the economy soured and after all the warm weather in the Eastern valleys and cities over the winter, most people expected a calamitous season for the ski industry. It will instead turn out to be a decent season, even a good season, for most of the major resorts.
Trade organizations throughout the country, except in the most Western states, are estimating that skier/snowboarder visits will be down 7 to 10 percent from the 2000-1 season. But then that season -- with especially abundant snowfall in the East -- was record-setting. Compared to the 10-year average, last season will probably be above average in terms of skier visits. In some California, Oregon and Washington areas, the season just past may be better than the earlier bonanza.
"It's definitely not been as bad as people probably think," said Dirk Gouwens, president of the Ski Areas of New York State, home to more ski areas (52) than any other state in the nation. "The numbers will be down because a warm December meant a later start, but in some ways costs will go down, too, because they were prepared to make more snow and did not. And it got cold just in time to save the Christmas week business. That was key."
In an interview on Jan. 2, Adam Aron, the chairman and chief executive of the Vail Resorts, was worried that the strong numbers from his resorts during the Christmas/New Year's Day holiday were a mirage. He cautioned that Sept. 11 could have a more lasting effect.
"It turns out that no terrorist is going to stand in the way of people's cherished annual ski trip," Aron said. "Advance bookings were anemic for January and February, and I think Sept. 11 put people in a holding pattern. But in the end, they decided to come."
It is one of the quirks of the ski industry that the largest resorts, the top 20 percent, account for 80 percent of business. So it is these major areas, with their technologically advanced snowmaking, better grooming and savvy marketing, that have had the strongest years. They also have higher elevations. Unquestionably, there have been some sketchy weeks with thin snow cover in the East, but most major areas still got 100 to 200 inches of snow, even if the crocuses have been growing for weeks.
Still, at places like Ski Butternut in Great Barrington, Mass., business was off more than 10 percent. Without question it is the smaller mountains -- Butternut has 22 trails -- that have been hit the hardest. "Visits were down pretty dramatically," Matt Sawyer, Butternut's director of marketing and sales, said.
The ski areas of western Massachusetts, the Hudson Valley of New York and eastern Pennsylvania are much more reliant on consumers driving from nearby cities. "When it's February and 60 degrees in New York City, nobody's thinking about skiing," Sawyer said.
But the plucky, smaller areas have also learned to be resourceful in lean times. They know how to shave costs and are prudent enough to put something extra away after a good year so they can survive the rainy days (no pun intended).
"The community areas are supported by their communities," Greg Sweetser, executive director of the Ski Maine Association, said. "Everyone buys season passes and comes out almost as a matter of civic pride. Even if it's a half a day before taking the kids to basketball practice."
Or, this winter, to the golf course.
But ski areas large and small will endure. It is not easy, like running a farm when the crop is sparse. Both walks of life tend to attract the hardy and hopeful.
"I don't think you're going to see a trend of people closing their doors or anything like that," Sawyer said. "People adjust. We'll be O.K. But we won't be buying new lifts this summer."
As with any sport, the saying applies: wait till next year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (91%); WEATHER (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SKIING FACILITIES (89%); WINTER SPORTS (76%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); SUBURBS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); THANKSGIVING (70%); INTERVIEWS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); FERTILIZERS (57%) SKIING; ALPINE SKIING 

COMPANY: VAIL RESORTS INC (58%)

TICKER: MTN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (58%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

PERSON: PENNINGTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); WEST USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



733 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Gunman Kills 8 in France, and an Election's Focus Shifts 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: NANTERRE, France, March 27 

 BODY:
A shooting early this morning that killed 8 people and wounded 19 others left this working-class Paris suburb numb today and immediately swung the focus of the French presidential campaign back to crime, drawing a half dozen candidates to the scene hours after the shooting.
 Witnesses said the lone gunman waited calmly through a six-hour City Council budget meeting here that began on Tuesday night before advancing wordlessly on a crowded dais and methodically opening fire with a gun in each hand. 
 He took aim at about 40 city officials who were putting on their coats as the meeting ended, a little after 1 a.m. today. About 50 shells were found scattered across the room. 
"He was aiming very specifically, first at the city councilors and then at the deputy mayors," said Lucien Batard, a deputy mayor in charge of education who was at the meeting. "It was pure butchery. There was screaming all over the place."
The gunman, when he was finally wrestled to the floor by a group of officials and tied up with telephone wire, began shouting, "Kill me, kill me!"
The police identified the suspect as Richard Durn, 33, a local man with a history of psychological problems who occasionally attended Council meetings in Nanterre.
The police said he used two automatic pistols and a revolver in the attack.
Within hours of the carnage, candidates, including President Jacques Chirac, a conservative, and Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, a Socialist, the presidential candidates who are leading in the polls, began making their way to the modern, concrete and steel City Hall here, where the bodies of the victims awaited identification by their families.
Both Mr. Chirac and Mr. Jospin have promised a crackdown on crime if elected.
The prime minister was on the scene even before the sun had risen, calling the events a "horrifying tragedy that harms democracy."
Mr. Chirac, who arrived later, said he was "utterly dismayed by this act of deadly madness." 
Most polls show that crime has become the No. 1 issue in France these days. Last year, reported crimes rose nearly 8 percent, according to a police survey, after a nearly 6 percent increase the year before. 
Most candidates were careful to point out that the suspect in this shooting appeared to be "unbalanced" and that the rampage had little to do with the everyday crime that has been weighing on voters.
But one center-right candidate, Alain Madelin, said the event was "revealing of the state of rising crime in France" and compared it with similar events in the United States. 
"This American-style byproduct," he said, "we wished not to have in France." 
The attack also seemed likely to intensify debate over the adequacy of gun control in France. Despite his psychological problems, and an incident in which he apparently threatened a psychologist four years ago, Mr. Durn -- a sports-shooting enthusiast -- was able to get licenses for his guns.
In the wind-blown plaza outside the City Hall complex this morning, dozens of the area's residents had come to lay flowers by the front door and hear firsthand what had happened inside. Several of the councilors who had witnessed the carnage gave emotional accounts of what they had seen.
"It was just the usual budget meeting," said Samuel Rijik, a member of the municipal council, whose eyes filled with tears as he told the story of Mr. Durn's attack. "There was no particular battle. And then the mayor said, 'O.K. we are finished for tonight,' and he got up and advanced on us and just started shooting.
"My colleagues on the right were hit, and I thought I had been hit too. I must have fallen because he went off in the other direction and just kept shooting -- men, women, he did not seem to care.
"When you see something like that you will never be the same again."
Mr. Rijik and other witnesses said Mr. Durn seemed completely normal during the meeting, even exchanging greetings with some of the councilors who knew him vaguely.
His mother, however, has reportedly told the police that her son was depressed and often talked of suicide or killing others. 
The police said Mr. Durn, who lived with his mother, was unemployed and did not have any previous criminal record.
Some Nanterre officials said they believed that Mr. Durn -- whose mother had immigrated to France from Slovenia -- had been an aid worker in Kosovo and Bosnia.
France 3 Television reported today that the police found a 13-page suicide letter at Mr. Durn's apartment. In the letter, filled with self-loathing passages, Mr. Durn was said to have bemoaned his failure to become a teacher and attract friends. 
Mr. Durn had worked for the Green Party in the last election, making sure that the rules were followed at polling stations. Few other details about him were available.
Witnesses said he killed deliberately, holding a 9-millimeter Glock automatic pistol in each hand and bearing down on his victims who tried to hide under tables and chairs as he came toward them.
Mr. Batard said Mr. Durn only stopped when one of the council members hit him with a chair. After that, he said, several of the men in the room wrestled with him. Some, he said, were shot in the melee.
"It was total mayhem," Mr. Batard said. "He didn't say a thing, until they tied him down and then he started screaming: 'Kill me, kill me!' "
Witnesses said there was nothing special about Mr. Durn, who was cleanshaven and dressed tidily. City Council meetings in France are open to the public and no one is searched before entering a session.
After Mr. Durn's arrest, the police found the third handgun, a Smith & Wesson .357 Magnum, which apparently was not used in the shooting.
Mr. Durn has been uncommunicative in custody, the police said. But law enforcement officials said his intent was clear.
"When you come armed with two fast-firing automatic weapons and seven magazines of bullets," said Yves Bot, the prosecutor handling the case, "and you sit six hours and then you get up and start firing methodically, I think you can say that his intention was to kill everyone there."

GRAPHIC: Photos: After a gunman killed 8 people and wounded 19 others yesterday at the City Hall in Nanterre, France, a suburb of Paris, residents lined up to sign a condolence book in front of the photographs of 4 of the victims. (Photographs by Associated Press); The French police arrested Richard Durn, above, after the rampage. Nanterre city employees, left, checked a list of victims. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); SHOOTINGS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); MENTAL ILLNESS (87%); FIREARMS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); GUN CONTROL (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); BUDGETS (56%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CRIME AND CRIMINALS 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (89%) DALEY, SUZANNE; DURN, RICHARD; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); JOSPIN, LIONEL (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (94%) FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (92%) NANTERRE (FRANCE); FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



734 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: So New, and So Veteran, 1,359 Police Graduates Are Praised 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Many of them were police officers before they ever finished their training. All of them are the first to join the Police Department since the attack on the World Trade Center. And yesterday, the 1,359 newly minted officers made up the first graduating class of police officers presided over by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, with his police commissioner. 
 The ceremony, held at a packed Madison Square Garden, began with a video featuring tape from various police activities, including the response to the World Trade Center attack, in which 23 officers perished, and images of those officers who died. 
 "If any class earned its stripes early on, it is this class," said Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, recalling how young recruits ran to the scene, struggling to help those with years of experience.
"In the wake of Sept. 11, these officers have had more field experience than any class in history," Mr. Kelly said. He went on to detail how the recruits, barely into their eight months of training, went on to serve in other roles, like policing the World Economic Forum and assisting at the St. Patrick's Day Parade, jobs not usually handled by those still in training. Some caught criminals, like a rapist who was chased over a fence and arrested by a young officer in training who has yet to earn his gun. 
The department, which has begun a major recruitment, has attracted renewed good will since Sept. 11, Mr. Kelly said. "The public at large has concluded that a police officer, particularly a New York City police officer, is a good thing to be," he said. 
Mayor Bloomberg, who began his day welcoming Merrill Lynch employees back to the World Financial Center, which the firm began reoccupying this fall, carefully read over the plaques awarded to several police officers for academic and other achievements. Among them was the Mayor's Award, presented to Michele Lambert, who had the highest grade point average in her class. 
"It is my honor to participate in this graduation ceremony and to recognize the strong diversity of this graduating class, which is comprised of 53 percent minority officers and 20 percent who are women," the mayor said. "You are truly reflective of our society and I congratulate you. You are a model for all of government."
Mr. Bloomberg added: "Because of the tragic events of 9/11 the department asked you to perform tasks that have never been done by previous recruits." 
Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference yesterday that the ceremonies for new classes of firefighters and police officers, the opening of private businesses near ground zero and the various other tasks in his daily schedule were still emotionally overshadowed, for him, by the funerals he had recently attended.
It is "not even close," he said. "I don't know how you ever express to the parents how grateful we are to the lost sons and daughters who protect all of us. There's no ways you can bring back their children. All you can do is say thank you, make sure that their families left behind are taken care of financially and go and build a better world."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Roslyn Blackwell, a new officer, is congratulated by her brother.; In a packed Madison Square Garden, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg presided yesterday over the first police class to graduate since Sept. 11. (Photographs by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORISM (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (71%); AIRLINES (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) POLICE; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



735 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup; 
Justices Uphold Verdict Against Killer Represented By Victim's Ex-Lawyer

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27 

 BODY:
A sharply divided Supreme Court today upheld the conviction and death sentence of a Virginia inmate whose court-appointed lawyer had represented the murder victim in an unrelated case until the victim's death. 
 The 5-to-4 majority rejected the inmate's argument that the lawyer had a conflict of interest so obvious as to undermine the fairness of the trial without the need to prove that the lawyer's performance harmed the defense. A "mere theoretical division of loyalties" was not enough to call the validity of the conviction into question, Justice Antonin Scalia wrote for the majority. 
 Several of the five opinions filed in the case had a bitter edge, reflecting what appeared to be growing tension on the court over the death penalty. In a dissenting opinion, Justice Stephen G. Breyer said the lawyer's position was "the kind of representational incompatibility that is egregious on its face." He said that to carry out a death sentence under the circumstances "would diminish that public confidence in the criminal justice system upon which the successful functioning of that system continues to depend." 
Justice Scalia responded for the majority that Justice Breyer's concern that the result would not be seen as fair "is not a rule of law but expression of an ad hoc 'fairness' judgment with which we disagree."
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony M. Kennedy, and Clarence M. Thomas signed Justice Scalia's opinion. Justice Kennedy also filed a concurring opinion. The other dissenters were Justices John Paul Stevens and David H. Souter, who each filed dissenting opinions, and Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who signed Justice Breyer's dissent.
None of the current members of the court has taken the position that the death penalty is unconstitutional in all respects, a view held by Justices William J. Brennan, Thurgood Marshall and Harry A. Blackmun, who retired in the 1990's. But some justices have appeared increasingly concerned about aspects of capital punishment, particularly the adequacy of legal representation for defendants. 
Justice O'Connor expressed such concerns in widely reported remarks last summer. She did not write separately today to explain why she joined the majority.
The decision today was not limited to death penalty cases, but rather addressed a more general issue about what should happen when a defense lawyer has a conflict of interest. Such cases come in many varieties; last month, for example, the federal appeals court in New York overturned the conviction of a police officer in the Abner Louima torture case, ruling that a defense lawyer's contract to represent the police union and other officers was a conflict of interest.
The case the court decided today, Mickens v. Taylor, No. 00-9285, had one highly unusual aspect. The defense lawyer, Bryan Saunders, had been appointed by a juvenile court judge to represent Timothy Hall, 17, on an assault charge. After Mr. Hall was found dead several weeks later, the judge dismissed that charge and then appointed Mr. Saunders to represent Walter Mickens Jr., who was charged with Mr. Hall's murder.
Mr. Saunders did not disclose the previous relationship, and because juvenile court records are sealed, Mr. Mickens did not learn of it until years after his 1993 conviction, when a new lawyer was researching the case to prepare a petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
In that petition, filed in Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va. in 1998, Mr. Mickens argued he had been deprived of effective assistance of counsel in violation of the Sixth Amendment and was entitled to an automatic reversal. The district court rejected his petition, but a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, Va., granted it.
The full appeals court then voted, 7 to 3, to reinstate the conviction and death sentence, ruling that the situation did not warrant an automatic reversal and that Mr. Mickens had failed to demonstrate an "adverse effect" on his representation.
In his opinion today upholding that ruling, Justice Scalia said it made "little policy sense" to presume that a verdict was unreliable just because a trial judge had not inquired into a potential conflict of interest. The dissenting opinions said that, to the contrary, such a presumption was the only way to assure confidence in the criminal justice system.
"Mickens had a constitutional right to the services of an attorney devoted solely to his interests," Justice Stevens said. "That right was violated."
Mr. Mickens was a day from execution last April when the court granted a stay and agreed to hear his case.
These were among the other developments at the court today.

Aliens' Back Pay
By the same 5-to-4 division, the court ruled that employers who violate federal labor law in their treatment of illegal immigrant workers could not be required to pay back wages. The decision, with an opinion by Chief Justice Rehnquist, overturned a decision of the federal appeals court here and rejected a policy of the National Labor Relations Board, which the Bush administration had defended.
The case dated to 1989, when a California company, Hoffman Plastic Compounds Inc., dismissed several employees who were engaged in organizing a union. The labor relations board ordered reinstatement and back pay for the workers, including Jose Castro, a Mexican who, it was later determined, had never been legally admitted to the United States, was not authorized to work, and had used fraudulent documents. The board held that Mr. Castro was nonetheless entitled to back pay for the more than three years between the time the company dismissed him and when it learned of his illegal status.
Writing for the court today, Chief Justice Rehnquist said that because the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 prohibited the employment of illegal immigrants, the labor board had no authority to order back pay. "Awarding back pay in a case like this not only trivializes the immigration laws, it also condones and encourages future violations," he said.
The opinion, Hoffman Plastic v. National Labor Relations Board, No. 00-1595, "does not mean that the employer gets off scot-free," the chief justice said, because an employer could still face contempt proceedings for continuing to violate labor laws.
In a dissenting opinion, Justice Breyer called the employer's violation in this case "crude and obvious" and said that Congress had not spelled out the relationship between the immigration laws and labor laws. Consequently, he said, the court should defer to the labor board's "reasonable" position that the worker's illegal status did not remove the employer's obligation to make a "meaningful monetary payment" for violating labor law.
John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said the decision would permit employers to "unlawfully victimize undocumented workers without any economic consequence."

Census Battle
The court heard a lively argument today in a dispute between Utah and North Carolina over the method used in the 2000 census to attribute residents to 620,000 addresses that could not be verified or for which information was incomplete. 
Under a method known as imputation, the Census Bureau ascribed to these addresses the characteristics of nearby homes, and counted some 1.2 million extra people. North Carolina picked up more of that population than did Utah, and edged Utah out in entitlement to an additional seat in the House of Representatives.
The question in the case, Utah v. Evans, No. 01-714, is whether the method constitutes sampling, which the court ruled in 1999 cannot be part of the population count used to determine seats in the House. Utah lost its challenge before a special three-judge Federal District Court in Salt Lake City. One question for the justices today was, If Utah was right on the law, was it too late for a judicial remedy because the official census numbers had already been submitted to Congress? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (93%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (92%); LAWYERS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); MURDER (90%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); VERDICTS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (79%); CENSUS (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TORTURE (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); REFUGEES (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (73%); JUVENILE COURTS (73%); REDISTRICTING (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%) DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; LEGAL PROFESSION; LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; POPULATION; CENSUS; REAPPORTIONMENT 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); HOFFMAN PLASTIC COMPOUNDS INC; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); STEPHEN BREYER (78%); DAVID SOUTER (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%) ;MICKENS, WALTER JR; SAUNDERS, BRYAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) UTAH; NORTH CAROLINA

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



736 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Time Warp at G.M.: G.T.O. Is Returning 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
General Motors said yesterday that it planned to revive the Pontiac G.T.O., an American muscle car icon, by modifying a sports coupe it sells in Australia.
 The old G.T.O., which was sold from the 1964 to 1974 model years and nicknamed the Goat, was the first of a string of muscle cars in that era that appealed to young men looking for affordable cars with plenty of horsepower. The muscle car has been in decline in recent decades as drivers have drifted to larger vehicles like S.U.V.'s and pickups. 
 In 1964, in the car's heyday, Ronnie & the Daytonas reached No. 4 on the pop charts with their song "Little G.T.O.," which included plenty of wa-wa-wa's and lyrics like "yeah yeah, little G.T.O." 
The new version will be a modified sports coupe, the Monaro, already sold by G.M.'s Holden Australia unit. It will arrive perhaps as early as next year, but will not be pitched at young men. Instead, it will be aimed at those once-young men who have grown up, made money and turned to luxury brands. It is likely to be priced around $30,000 to $35,000.
"It feels and drives a lot like a V8 BMW," said Robert A. Lutz, G.M.'s vice chairman for product development, at a preview yesterday of the New York International Auto Show. Mr. Lutz made his decision after a visit to Australia in February.
"I think, for the first time, we will draw import buyers to the Pontiac showroom." 
G.M. has often complained about the advantage foreign automakers have because of the strong dollar and the weak yen, euro and won. But Mr. Lutz said such issues could be an advantage for importing Australian cars.
Several other automakers also introduced cars yesterday at the auto show, at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan, which opens to the public tomorrow and runs through April 7. From Japan, there were bold and boxy shapes like the Element, an S.U.V. that Honda Motor said it would start selling in December. As displayed, it has two tones and "clamshell" doors that open like those in a saloon. The Element will start at $16,000. 
Toyota Motor showed two concept vehicles for its forthcoming youth brand, called Scion. One, the bbX, has a sharply rectangular shape. Another prototype, the Scion ccX, has a sunroof that extends from the front of the hood to the bumper and can be folded up like an accordion.
"They are far enough away from the mainstream to be eye-catching but not so far over the edge to be strange," said Brian Bolain, national manager of Scion. 
Ford Motor's Lincoln brand also showed a slightly smaller version of its Navigator S.U.V., called the Aviator. And G.M.'s Saturn brand introduced a new small car called the Ion. 
Mr. Lutz, in his speech, said G.M. was feeling optimistic about the economy and auto sales this year. The G.T.O., he said, would be a small-volume vehicle, selling perhaps 20,000 a year, but would help lead Pontiac in a new direction.
G.T.O. stands for Gran Turismo Omologato, a designation borrowed from a type of Ferrari. Numerous other muscle cars followed, including the Ford Mustang, the Chevrolet Camaro and the Dodge Charger. G.M. has said it will stop making the Camaro, and the Firebird, after this year, leaving the Mustang as the last of the breed. 
Despite its long hiatus, G.T.O. remains a familiar name. According ultimategto.com, an enthusiasts' Web site, a G.T.O. was smashed up by the bus in "Speed," two were blown up during the course of "Miami Vice," and George's father bought one to recapture his youth in an episode of "Seinfeld."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about plans by General Motors to revive the Pontiac G.T.O. misstated the name of a song about the car and an artist who recorded it. The song was "G.T.O.," not "Little G.T.O." It was recorded by Ronny & the Daytonas, not Ronnie.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Monaro, already sold by G.M. in Australia, is coming back to the United States, but as a G.T.O. (Newspix) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); TRADE SHOWS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); SEDANS (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (73%); POP & ROCK (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (68%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (66%) AUTOMOBILES; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL AUTO SHOW 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (63%); FORD MOTOR CO (59%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (59%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (63%); HMC (NYSE) (63%); 7267 (TSE) (63%); FORDP (PAR) (59%); F (NYSE) (59%); GM (NYSE) (59%); TYT (LSE) (59%); TM (NYSE) (59%); 7203 (TSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (59%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) AUSTRALIA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



737 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: Talking Green vs. Making Green 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
Before he became chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, William Clay Ford Jr. made a point of joining the environmental camp.
 Global warming, he wrote in a citizenship report in 2001, "stands out from other environmental issues because of its potentially serious consequences and its direct relationship to our industry." 
 Global warming? Auto executives talk about cars, golf and every tenth of a percentage point of market share. But they do not speak of global warming, unless prompted, and then often dismiss it as scientifically unproved.
Such statements made Mr. Ford -- a vegetarian, guitar-strumming black belt in tae kwon do -- the Motor City's most outspoken executive on environmental issues. 
But since becoming chief executive and gaining operational control of the struggling company last October, Mr. Ford, 44, has muted his pronouncements on such issues and has made decisions that have bitterly disappointed environmentalists. 
Many activists are most angry that Mr. Ford, the great-grandson of Henry Ford, backed an intense lobbying and advertising effort against a Senate proposal to raise fuel economy standards for the first time since the 1980's.
Some also say they sensed a shift in Mr. Ford's priorities when, in a recent television campaign, he spoke of his love of the outdoors in an ad promoting the vehicle environmentalists love to hate most: the S.U.V.
"My fear is that Bill Ford is showing his true stripes as just another short-sighted auto executive with no interest in the environment, our oil dependence, or the truth," said Daniel F. Becker, who monitors global warming and energy issues for the Sierra Club.
Fairly recently, Mr. Becker said of Mr. Ford: "His tenure offers real hope for progress."
Mr. Ford declined requests for comment. But company officials say that Ford Motor has stood by its main commitments, including a pledge in 2000 to improve the fuel economy of its S.U.V.'s by 25 percent within five years. The company has said it aims to sell the first hybrid gasoline-electric S.U.V. -- a step toward fulfilling that promise -- in 2003. It is also undertaking an ambitious project to rebuild its huge River Rouge plant as an eco-friendly operation.
"What is the commitment we've made that we've backed away from?" asked James G. Vella, Ford's vice president for corporate public affairs.
But even a few of the company's white-collar workers, in an internal message board, recently expressed discomfort with Ford Motor's role in the defeat of a proposal backed by Senators John Kerry and John McCain to raise fuel economy standards 50 percent by the 2015 model year. 
"This is a victory for American big business, including Ford lobbying," read one message given to The New York Times by an employee who did not support the company's position. "Fuel economy has improved hardly at all in 20 years." 
Now, environmentalists, embittered after the Senate defeat, are lining up against the man they once viewed as a potent ally. They say it will be difficult for Mr. Ford to lay claim to a green mantle if his company continues to adhere to the industry line on fighting fuel economy regulation. Ford's tangible record is undistinguished, they argue, because the fuel economy of its automotive fleet is roughly equivalent to vehicles built by General Motors, its main rival, and because Toyota Motor and Honda Motor are already selling environmentally friendly vehicles that use hybrid engines. 
The heart of the anger is directed at the company's support for an advertising blitz in newspapers and radio stations across the country to sway lawmakers during the recent fuel economy debate. The ads claimed, among other things, that S.U.V.'s and pickups would be driven to extinction and farmers would have to use subcompact cars to tend their crops. Ford also drafted letters for its workers to send to Congress.
"Everybody had a lot of high hopes and optimism for what Bill Ford was doing at Ford," said Scott Stoermer, spokesman for the League of Conservation Voters. "It's one thing to be opposed to it," he said of the Senate proposal, "but it's quite another to personally ask your employees to lobby senators and to use arguments that you know are wrong." 
Environmentalists argue that the notion that the S.U.V. or pickup would be legislated out of existence is belied by the fact that Ford's planned hybrid Escape S.U.V., due in 2003, will get 40 miles a gallon, well above the standards in the Kerry-McCain proposal.
Industry lobbyists counter that vehicles like the Escape will be made in limited numbers and that the legislation would have made it far more expensive to build -- and for consumers to buy -- pickups and S.U.V's.
"I don't think anybody would argue that the Kerry bill wouldn't have the impact of reducing choice," said Martin B. Zimmerman, Ford's group vice president for corporate affairs.
One alliance of environmental groups and corporations, the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies, is now reviewing Ford's membership, as well as G.M.'s.
"The recent actions by Ford and General Motors on fuel economy standards have raised some serious questions about their sincerity," said Robert K. Massie, the group's executive director.
When Mr. Ford became chairman in 1999, he had an easier platform to make grand pronouncements. The company was prosperous, and, as chairman, he was not responsible for day-to-day operations. 
Much has changed since then. Ford lost $5.5 billion in 2001 and is in turmoil. The company faces its usual unyielding competition from abroad, but has also been caught off guard by a resurgent G.M. that is stealing market share and eroding profits by leading a price war. In January, Mr. Ford announced a restructuring plan that included 35,000 job cuts and five plant closings.
The crisis presents Mr. Ford with a quandary that puts his stated environmental beliefs up against preserving the corporate inheritance of his children and extended family.
"I used to wonder," he said in late 2000, "if running a large industrial company would really square with my values."
More recently, he has been less Hamlet and more Prince Hal, worrying less out loud about saving the earth and talking instead about the hard realities of how the company became distracted during the bull market and how it must now refocus on building profitable cars and trucks.
"We strayed from what got us to the top of the mountain and it cost us greatly," he said recently. 
Environmentalists say the gospel of green should not be one of convenience. But Wall Street, the United Automobile Workers union and stockholders have their own concerns, starting with the bottom line and preserving jobs.
"You might irritate the environmentalists, but you have three other key constituencies," said Saul Rubin, an analyst with UBS Warburg. "The consumers, who are not particularly interested in fuel economy; the U.A.W., who are not particularly interested in fuel economy; and the shareholders, who are not particularly interested in fuel economy."
"Bill Ford," he continued, "is going to have to give up on his ambitions to create an environmentally friendly company. They need to focus all of their resources on becoming competitive again."
The disenchantment among environmentalists is in stark contrast to their attitude as the new decade began. Then, Mr. Ford led the company to abandon the Global Climate Coalition, a group of corporations that lobbied against restricting emissions of gases linked to global warming. And in a landmark corporate citizenship report released in 2000, the company acknowledged that the rise of S.U.V.'s had increased fuel consumption and added to greenhouse gas emissions. 
"S.U.V. owners who use their vehicles for off-road recreation can damage the nature they and others seek to enjoy," the report said. 
Mr. Ford pressed for the report in an attempt to address questions about the impact of the rise of S.U.V.'s, not a popular area of inquiry in Detroit. "The court of public opinion sometimes decides before you're ready for them to decide, and I want to make sure we're ready and ahead of the curve," he said at a news conference when the report was released.
Michelle Robinson, who works for the Union of Concerned Scientists, said liberal activist groups like hers saw Mr. Ford "as a breath of fresh air."
More recently, she said, she has felt discouraged by his company's actions. G.M., if viewed by groups like hers as a nemesis, has at least been more consistent, she said. 
"I think there's a little more duplicity, or schizophrenia, with Ford right now," she said. "You're not quite sure what they really are advocating when they're saying one thing publicly and another behind closed doors."
Mr. Zimmerman, the Ford official, said the company was only agreeing with the rest of the industry that the Kerry-McCain proposal was too ambitious. Even Honda, increasingly seen by environmental groups as their last hope for an ally, opposed the proposal. Honda, however, is the only major automaker that is not a member of the trade group that sponsored many of the ads. It has also said that significant increases are achievable.
Inside Ford, noted one white-collar worker who said he feared losing his job if identified, "the camps are fairly well split between people who think not much or nothing needs to be done versus the group of people that think a lot needs to be done."
But Mr. Zimmerman argued that the vast majority of employees support Ford's position. He added that the company still had backing from some environmental groups, citing Conservation International, a group that promotes biodiversity that has accepted a $25 million grant from Ford.
Peter A. Seligmann, the chief executive of that group, said of Bill Ford, "In his heart of hearts, he is truly concerned about environmental issues and truly recognizes the impact his industry has on the environment.
"He would like to be engaged in finding solutions on these issues," he added, "and is trying to figure out how to get the industry there."

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Clay Ford Jr. angered environmentalists recently by supporting an advertising blitz in newspapers and radio stations across the country to sway lawmakers during the recent fuel economy debate. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C1); The Explorer has continued to be a good seller for Ford, but it has, like other S.U.V.'s, been a focal point for attacks from environmentalists. (pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); MARTIAL ARTS (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); HYBRID VEHICLES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (53%) AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; ADVERTISING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; ENVIRONMENT 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (59%) FORD MOTOR CO; SENATE (US); SIERRA CLUB 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (75%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%) HAKIM, DANNY; FORD, WILLIAM CLAY JR; BECKER, DANIEL F 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



738 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: One-Way Discussion on Energy 

 BODY:
Energy Department documents now confirm what everyone has long suspected -- that in seeking guidance on its energy strategy last year, the Bush administration welcomed industry executives and lobbyists with open arms, while treating environmental groups like skunks at a picnic. Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, for example, held meetings last year with dozens of industry representatives directly involving the energy plan between late January and May 17, when the White House released its energy report. But he did not meet with conservationists or consumer advocates. The documents also suggest that while staff members of Vice President Dick Cheney's energy task force eventually consulted environmentalists, they did not do so until late in the game, and then in a perfunctory manner. 
 Opening the deliberative process to more contrarian views would probably not have deflected Mr. Bush's advisers from the aggressively pro-industry strategy they favored from the start, a strategy that relies heavily on increasing supplies of traditional fossil fuels like oil, natural gas and coal. Still, it is distressing that on a matter of this magnitude so few opposing voices were heard. It is no less disturbing that the industries that had the most to gain -- many of them major campaign contributors -- played such an intimate and influential role in conceiving the final product. 
 The narrowness of the administration's search for advice was confirmed in more than 11,000 pages of documents released by the Energy Department on Monday in response to a lawsuit brought by the Natural Resources Defense Council. A separate suit against the department and six other government agencies has been filed by Judicial Watch. The documents were accompanied by a press release boasting that the department had surrendered 11,000 pages of documents whereas the Defense Council had asked for only 7,584. That might have been more convincing if so many of the pages hadn't been blanked out or sanitized.
The department also provided a disingenuous chart suggesting significant similarities between the Defense Council's recommendations and those adopted by Mr. Cheney's task force. A closer examination of the two positions reveals that on matters of central importance -- drilling on sensitive public lands, easing clean air regulations, increasing fuel economy standards -- there are wide differences.
Thanks in part to the unbalanced Cheney report, the House produced an alarmingly one-sided bill with $27 billion in subsidies for traditional energy producers, and only $6 billion for conservation. In the Senate, a more promising bill has been weakened by industry pressure. That's what happens when only one side of an issue gets a fair hearing in Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); LITIGATION (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (66%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (60%) ENERGY AND POWER; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ENVIRONMENT; EDITORIALS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (54%) ENERGY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002 



739 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: The Return of the Wankel Engine 

BYLINE:  By DAN McCOSH 

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
WHEN it goes on sale early next year, the Mazda RX-8 will bring the Wankel rotary engine back to America. The last rotary-powered model sold here was also a Mazda, the RX-7, which was last imported in 1995. Rotary engines remain a mechanical oddity in an industry that worships standardization and volume.
 In the 1960's and 1970's, the rotary engine was viewed, for a time, as the next step in automotive evolution. It came closer to anything yet in displacing the industry's established technology. At the peak of rotary enthusiasm, companies produced rotary-powered motorcycles, outboard boat motors, airplane engines and even lawn mowers. General Motors and American Motors both had plans to use rotary engines in production models -- plans never realized. 
 The engine's appeal lay in its elegant simplicity. The Wankel rotary, also known as the Wankel -- after its German inventor, Felix Wankel -- has only a handful of parts, compared with about 40 pieces in a four-cylinder piston engine.
Its central rotor, a triangular piece of metal that revolves in a chamber, does the work of multiple reciprocating pistons. In the four-stroke cycle of a piston engine, valves move up and down to bring air in and extract gases out. But the rotor of a Wankel engine allows the four-stroke process to occur simultaneously. As the rotor turns, it uncovers slots in the housing, admitting air and then letting exhaust out. As a consequence, the rotary engine is lighter and more powerful for its size than even the latest high-compression V-8's.
The rotary's main benefit was to take the same combustion process that works so well in a conventional engine and arrange it in a far more compact design. The rotary produces twice the power of a conventional engine of similar size. The rotary motion and the timing of the power pulses run with uncanny smoothness.
Today, with billions of dollars committed to research on electric cars, fuel cells and other futuristic technologies, the rotary engine offers a cautionary tale of how a can't-miss technology can fail to live up to expectations. Displacing established technology is never easy, but the Wankel came closer than anything else in the auto industry. By the late 1950's, when a German manufacturer, NSU, first took interest in the rotary engine, there were already more piston engines in the United States than flush toilets.
The Wankel was introduced at an auspicious time. Eisenhower was president and tail fins were still growing taller every year. In the air, jet engines were displacing piston engines. Motorists had a seemingly unquenchable thirst for power. NSU's introduction in 1961 of the Prinz, the first production car to use the Wankel engine, captured the imagination of auto engineers worldwide, even though the car proved unreliable.
NSU built one more car with rotary power, the Ro80 sedan, before being folded into the fledgling Audi group in the late 1960's. By then, rotary development was under way on three continents under Wankel licenses. 
The president of General Motors, Edward N. Cole, saw the Wankel design as delivering some of the benefits of gas turbine engines, which were a continuing research program at the company, in a relatively low-cost design. In Japan, Kenichi Yamamoto, president of Toyo Kogyo, which later became Mazda, also saw the rotary's potential and introduced it into several models, including the Cosmo Sport, sold in the United States as the 110 S. In 1969, Mercedes began experimenting with a series of C-111 sports car prototypes that could reach 180 m.p.h. with four-rotor engines; those cars were never brought to production.
But the oil crisis of the early 1970's brought rotary-engine development to a near standstill. The rotary had two serious drawbacks: relatively high emissions and poor fuel economy. When Mr. Cole retired, G.M. canceled its production plans.
Among automakers, only Mazda persevered. The company's engineers improved the fuel economy, reliability and emission performance, and went on to develop a series of sedans and sports cars with rotary engines, winning races at Le Mans and gaining a loyal following. The new RX-8 rotary produces as much power as its predecessor without the use of turbochargers.
Recent research shows the shape of the combustion chamber in a rotary engine is well suited to using pure hydrogen as a fuel. Hydrogen is particularly clean, ending up mainly as water when burned. Mazda has been working for several years on the potential of a hydrogen-fueled rotary engine.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The last time bell-bottom jeans were in, Mazda began selling its two-seat 110 S.; Mazda RX-8 Chart: "Marching to a Different Beat"In a piston engine, each step in the four-stroke cycle occurs in sequence. These steps happen simultaneously in a Wankel, or rotary, engine, delivering power nearly seamlessly. Below is a brief description of each cycle. PISTON ENGINE INDUCTIONPiston moves down as intake valve opens, letting in air and fuel. COMPRESSIONPiston moves up with both valves closed, compressing air/fuel mixture. IGNITION/POWERSpark plug fires, igniting the compressed mixture, causing it to expand and drive down the piston. EXHAUSTPiston moves up as exhaust valve opens, expelling spent fuel. WANKEL ENGINE INDUCTIONGas mixture is drawn in through the intake port by the vacuum created by the rotor as it turns. COMPRESSIONCompression begins when the mixture is sealed between the rotor and the inner engine wall. IGNITION/POWERSpark plug fires, igniting compressed fuel. The expanding gas keeps the rotor turning and generates power. EXHAUSTSpent gases are expelled through the exhaust port. Drawings of piston and wankel engines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); SPORTS CARS (78%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (75%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (70%) AUTOMOBILES; ENGINES 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MAZDA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: MCCOSH, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



740 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
Trying to Fake It in a World Where Work Is Unfulfilling

 BODY:
"Time Out" was shown as part of last year's New York Film Festival. Following are excerpts from Stephen Holden's review, which appeared in The New York Times on Oct. 3, 2001; the full text is available at nytimes .com/movies. The film, in French with English subtitles, opens today in Manhattan and Los Angeles.
 Laurent Cantet's moody portrait of an unemployed businessman silently suffering in the anxious limbo between jobs is a gloomy meditation on what many of us mean today when we talk about work. Not manual labor or factory work, mind you, but the kind of corporate positions in finance, development, consulting and management that are hard to describe but that comfortably support millions of middle- and upper-middle-class families. 
 When we first meet Vincent (Aurelien Recoing), the movie's protagonist in his 40's, he appears to be living happily with his wife, Muriel (Karin Viard), a part-time teacher, and their three children in an upscale French suburb not far from the Swiss border. Vincent's parents have a home nearby and are affluent enough to be able to write large checks without blinking when their son asks to borrow money.
But beneath the family's picture-perfect life something is deeply wrong. When Vincent tells Muriel that he has quit his management job for a better opportunity across the border in Switzerland, she wonders worriedly why he left his old position before becoming securely ensconced in a new one. It turns out, of course, that Vincent was dismissed from his old job, hasn't mustered the appetite to look for a new one and has no immediate prospects. He has decided to fake it. 
Vincent improvises a phony investment scheme that he is able to sell with ridiculous ease to a dozen people, many of them old friends eager to acquire a quick if shadily gained windfall, no questions asked. The scheme begins to coalesce after Vincent, dressed for a job interview, drives to Geneva, where he slips into an office building and wanders around the halls eavesdropping on discussions about sending management teams to develop other management teams in emerging African markets. While lingering in a waiting room he picks up a fact-filled brochure about the company and digests enough information so that upon returning home he is able to deliver a convincing spiel to his family about the nature of his new job. 
Despite appearances, "Time Out" isn't a taut cat-and-mouse drama about a scheming white-collar criminal. This leisurely film, threaded with exquisitely sad chamber music (by Jocelyn Pook), is really an extended metaphysical meditation on the abstractions of the modern corporate workplace and the anomie of pushing papers and crunching numbers. And Mr. Recoing's performance is a sensitive portrayal of a man in the throes of an excruciating spiritual crisis.
Although the movie isn't overtly political and doesn't examine the day-to-day impact of globalization on emerging markets, it implies a fundamental unreality in a white-collar corporate life that is about percentages and projections. Through insistent reiteration it evokes the ultimate absurdity of buzzwords like "management team" and "emerging markets."
"Time Out" is entrancingly beautiful to look at. Vincent spends a great deal of time in his car (he often sleeps there), and there are several extended night-driving sequences in which the camera drinks in the deep-blue twilight of snow-covered roads burrowing into the French Alps. In one gorgeous and mysterious sequence Vincent parks his car on the side of a road and trudges uphill through the snow to an empty farmhouse that seems to have been waiting for him. Later he returns there with Muriel for an idyllic night of love. When they depart the next morning in a blizzard, Muriel, who is following Vincent, momentarily disappears. And as she pauses, gazing blankly into the whiteout, you wonder if he will act on his impulse to abandon her. 
As he goes about selling his bogus investment scheme, Vincent is overheard by a stranger, Jean-Michel (Serge Livrozet), who eventually calls his bluff and offers him a real job in his lucrative business of importing shoddy imitations of brand-name products. Vincent, guilt-stricken and desperate to pay back his investors, accepts. And the movie suggests that in the overall scheme of things Jean-Michel's brand of deception is actually less dishonest than the management job Vincent left behind. At least the new job involves a tangible product. 
It is useful to compare "Time Out" with Mr. Cantet's debut film, "Human Resources," a brilliantly focused examination of union problems in a factory at which a new recruit, an ambitious business-school graduate, is asked to dismiss his own father, who has worked for decades on the assembly line. Economically the world of "Time Out" is a cut even above the white-collar world of "Human Resources." And although this director finds a rich seam of despairing poetry in this world, that poetry is a moan of futility by a character who feels deep in his soul that what he does is just a scam. Together these two films establish Mr. Cantet as France's foremost cinematic poet of the workplace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); FAMILY (76%); CHILDREN (74%); DISMISSALS (71%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (62%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



741 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: A Political Neophyte in Newark Challenges a Shrewd Incumbent 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW JACOBS 

DATELINE: NEWARK, March 28 

 BODY:
The incumbent is a feisty, street-smart veteran of the civil rights era who shepherded this city through its darkest days. The challenger, a political neophyte half his age, boasts an Ivy League pedigree, Wall Street backing and the kind of polished good looks that make voters and talk show hosts swoon. Both men have raised more money than anyone has ever seen in Newark, a place still mired in stunning poverty.
 It is the most fiercely contested mayoral race here in a generation. It is also quickly becoming the nastiest. 
 Six weeks from now, residents of New Jersey's largest city will choose between Sharpe James, who has been a City Hall mainstay for 32 years, and Cory Booker, a Yale Law School graduate and Rhodes scholar who won a seat on the City Council soon after moving here in 1996. Since then, Mr. Booker has charmed the national news media by camping out on crime-infested street corners and railing against what he calls an entrenched machine. More recently, he has courted financial support from marquee names like Bill Bradley, Jack Kemp and Barbra Streisand. 
Mr. James, who formally kicked off his re-election campaign today, enters the race as the heavy favorite. He is, after all, both mayor and state senator, a shrewd rainmaker who enjoys the support of municipal workers -- who serve at his pleasure -- and elected officials like Senator Jon S. Corzine and Gov. James E. McGreevey, who appreciate the value of a dependable voting bloc.
Without Mr. James at the helm, his supporters say, Newark would still be the nation's urban basket case. Without him, there would be no Starbucks on Broad Street, no multiplex in the Central Ward and no comeback story on the evening news.
But most political observers concede that Mr. James, 66, who has never lost a race, is facing the fight of his political life. Past opponents were poorly financed and ill prepared for the ferocity of his campaigns. And after 16 years as mayor (and another 16 on the council), Mr. James is facing a question few have dared to raise: Has Newark's ballyhooed rebirth failed to improve the life of the average Newarker? 
To Mr. Booker, 32, and his supporters, the renaissance is mostly a mirage, a revival confined to a few chunks of downtown real estate.
"This race is clearly a referendum on Sharpe James," said Clifford Zukin, a professor of political science at Rutgers University. 
At the very least, the race pits two enormously different Democrats from different generations. But on another level, it is exposing a growing rift between the city's old guard -- the people who stayed put in the 1960's, 70's and 80's when a quarter of the population fled -- and those who arrived in recent years, many of them young professionals and academics lured by a resurgent city. The newcomers see the promise and the obstacles. The veterans see outsiders with no appreciation for hard-fought achievements.
"There is an enormous clash of cultures going on," said Dennis Gale, director of the Joseph C. Cornwall Center for Metropolitan Studies at Rutgers University, and a recent arrival. "As a result, there's a siege mentality, a sort of defensiveness." 
That clash may partly explain why the mayoral race has become increasingly uncivil. Anonymous literature crudely attacking both men has been distributed through the mail or taped to lampposts. Last weekend, one or more intruders vandalized a Booker campaign office, taking computer discs with voter lists. A week earlier, someone threw a hammer through the window of Mayor James's Bergen Street headquarters. Both campaigns have denied involvement in the incidents.
"It will probably get a lot uglier," said the Rev. M. William Howard Jr., pastor of Bethany Baptist Church, one of the city's most prominent congregations. "In a city that is so undercapitalized, where there are so few career opportunities, it's just a sign of how much is at stake."
Surrounded by a fresh crop of town houses, their miniature front lawns newly planted with sod, the mayor reminded a cheering crowd today of what had stood there before: rows of red brick housing projects with boarded-up windows. "What a difference we have made," he said, standing beside the governor and a legion of elected officials. "Well look around this neighborhood and see the real progress we have made. Real progress duplicated in every ward neighborhood in this city."
Newark has undoubtedly made huge strides since 1967, when riots charred the Central Ward and pushed the city into a downward spiral of disinvestment, crime and despair. In 1986, when Mr. James challenged Kenneth Gibson, among the nation's first big-city black mayors, he convinced voters that they had been denied measurable progress. With a mix of pride and bitterness, Mr. James still recalls a Johnny Carson joke that came to symbolize the city's stigma: "First prize is one week in Newark," Mr. Carson had said. "Second prize is two weeks."
In the last decade, Mr. James helped build a glimmering performing arts center and a minor league baseball stadium while drumming up the notion, now widely accepted, that Newark is a city on the rise; empty office towers have been refurbished and acres of empty lots sprout neo-Georgian town houses. This month's Travel & Leisure magazine mentions Newark as a worthy destination, and people here are holding their breath, hoping the governor will deliver a long-promised downtown arena for the New Jersey Nets and the Devils. 
Even his detractors acknowledge that Mr. James, dogged and well-connected in both Trenton and Washington, has been a ceaseless cheerleader for the city, overhauling the prevailing sentiment that nothing good ever happens in Newark. "For the first time I can remember, there is hope," said Stephen N. Adubato, a North Ward power broker who runs one of the city's largest social service agencies. "Newark hasn't been turned around, but it's turning and Sharpe is one of the reasons things are changing."
But in the outlying neighborhoods, life is less cheery. This city of 274,000 still has some of the nation's highest rates of infant mortality, lead poisoning and AIDS. Only 40 percent of its students graduate from high school, the unemployment rate is double the state average, and the number of murders, while fewer than in years past, inexplicably jumped to 96 last year from 59 in 2000. "It still strikes me as a profoundly underdeveloped city with some features that resemble what I've seen in third world counties," Mr. Howard said.
Raymond Codey, the director of development for New Community Corporation, a nonprofit group that has built 3,000 housing units here, said the Newark renaissance had yet to seep beyond the downtown. "It's like a Hollywood set, a facade of a renaissance with nothing behind it," he said. "You need a good school system, otherwise young families move out as soon as their kids reach school age."
He pointed to Central Ward triumphs like Society Hill, a middle-class development that opened in the early 1990's, which has suffered from high turnover as the original tenants rent out their homes and then move to the suburbs. "That's bad for the city," he said. 
Whether the glass is half full or half empty will be the defining issue on Election Day, May 14. On television commercials and in public appearances, Mr. Booker has been hammering away at the idea that Newark is doing fine. His tag line, a subversion of the Sharpe James cheer, is "It's time for a renaissance for the rest of us." 
Both campaigns have raised more than $1.5 million and plan to push that to $3 million by Election Day, which would make this the most expensive race in Newark history. Television commercials for both men flood local cable channels, and Mr. Booker seems to have cornered the market on bus shelter ads. For the first time in his political career, Mr. James has hired outside campaign consultants.
While nearly two-thirds of the mayor's contributors are from Newark, many of them city workers, Mr. Booker has been passing the hat in places like New York, Washington and California, often tapping people he knows from his days at Yale; Stanford, where he got his bachelor's degree; and Oxford. Mr. Booker says the donations are an affirmation of his probity and promise.
Mr. James says it shows that his opponent, who grew up in suburban Bergen County, is a carpetbagger controlled by outside forces.
Mr. Booker countered that none of his contributors had a financial interest in the city, unlike many of the mayor's, "a large portion of whom are doing business with City Hall," he said. "People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones."
Although they talk about the new jobs and housing, the mayor's boosters invariably meander to the notion that Mr. Booker is an inauthentic, overeducated interloper. Many seem to take offense at his decision to move into Brick Towers, one of Newark's most famously chaotic housing projects. 
But as much as they discount his chances for victory, the mayor's supporters are clearly worried about the possibility that Mr. Booker could upend the status quo.
"We've worked too hard for too long to allow folks to come here with a basket of money and buy this city," said Representative Donald Payne of Newark, the state's first black congressman. "We've earned this place and we're not going to give this up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Sharpe James, above center, announcing his intention to run for another term, with Representative Donald Payne, far left, and Gov. James. E. McGreevey, second left. Cory Booker, below, greeting students from a group called Do Something Now, whom he asked to join his campaign. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B5); Newark's mayor, Sharpe James, left, is being challenged by Cory Booker. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LAWYERS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); REFERENDUMS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%) ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ENDORSEMENTS; FINANCES; MAYORS 

PERSON: JON CORZINE (57%); DONALD M PAYNE (57%) JACOBS, ANDREW; BOOKER, CORY (COUNCILMAN); JAMES, SHARPE (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



742 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: A Survey Reveals Sentiment For Keeping Shafts of Light 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
Having gingerly and gratefully grown reaccustomed to the nightly sight of two brilliant columns over Lower Manhattan -- a compass point on which so many lives have turned -- some New Yorkers seem reluctant to lose them again.
 Since March 11, 88 searchlights mounted at Battery Park City, just west of the World Trade Center site, have cast parallel shafts into the sky every evening after dusk, as a temporary "Tribute in Light," scheduled to last two more weeks. Sometimes they ascend endlessly. Sometimes they merely tickle the bottom of low clouds. 
 But they have definitely struck a chord.
"It's a clear path to heaven," said the architect Ralph Mancini of Mancini Duffy, whose office was in the trade center's south tower. "It made me feel as if we were still there. It made me feel connected to a lot of people. It was a way for me to guide them to God. It was magnificent."
"I wish the lights could stay on until the first person moves into the new design of the trade center," he said, "as a symbol we're all together."
Mr. Mancini, it turns out, is not alone.
"At least for the time being -- and maybe for all time -- New Yorkers want those twin beams of light to soar," said Maurice Carroll, director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. He released a poll yesterday showing that 39 percent of 1,038 registered voters in the city feel the lights should stay on until a permanent memorial is built and that 36 percent feel the lights themselves should be permanent.
Twenty percent feel the lights should be turned off April 13, as planned. And that is what will happen, said Kent L. Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society, the chief sponsor of the project, in part because it was approved by various community groups, government agencies and victims' family members as a brief, finite gesture.
"Having made a set of commitments," Mr. Barwick said, "they ought to be honored." There are practical considerations, too. "This was conceived using rented equipment, borrowed materials and temporary structures on land that doesn't belong to us," he said.
The city is deferring to the Municipal Art Society on whether it would be feasible to resume the installation, said Jennifer E. Falk, deputy press secretary to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Only then would there be a fuller discussion and public review of whether it should be continued.
Besides design, financing and engineering, such a review would have to account for the impact of searchlights on neighbors and on the birds that fly around them.
The New York City Audubon Society is strongly opposed to prolonging the installation, said a board member, Peter Rhoades Mott. Observers have not found any dead or injured birds around the site since March 11, he said, but have noticed that most change their flight patterns.
"Extending the 'Tribute' would substantially increase the likelihood of catastrophe for migrants," Mr. Mott said. Based on a five-year tally around the World Trade Center, some species most at risk would be the American woodcock, hermit thrush, gray catbird and black-throated blue warbler.
The project has won over some who were initially opposed. Anne Pasternak, executive director of Creative Time, a public arts group involved in coordinating the "Tribute in Light," said she had heard praise from someone who once feared the lights would make ground zero look like a used-car lot.
But Ms. Pasternak says she expects a debate if there is a move to make the memorial permanent, perhaps along the lines of whether twin light towers commemorate American economic dominance rather than lost lives.
Even some of the project's earliest supporters question how well it would work permanently.
"Everyone I know felt the thing that made it so strong was its impermanence," said Agnes Gund, president of the Museum of Modern Art. She said the beacons are "very spiritual now, but after a while it would feel like either they should be substantial or not be there."
For some New Yorkers, however, losing even a spectral representation of the trade center might be painful.
"As comforted as people are by seeing this anchor, they are very unsettled by the fact that it's temporary, " said Gustavo Bonevardi, who worked on the design with John Bennett, Julian LaVerdiere, Paul Myoda, Richard Nash Gould and Paul Marantz.
"Everyone is questioning why it has to go," Mr. Bonevardi said. "Now that it's done, we feel that it belongs to the city. If that's what the people want to do, we're excited, willing and eager to help in having them come back."
It is clear that even an ephemeral "Tribute in Light" has left an indelible mark.
Richard A. Kahan, co-founder of Take the Field, a nonprofit group devoted to rebuilding athletic fields at public high schools, was on the US Airways shuttle from Washington the night after the lights were first turned on.
"The pilot was announcing it to everyone 50 miles away from New York: 'Those of you on the left side of the plane in 10 minutes will have a spectacular view of the memorial lights,' " Mr. Kahan said. "All of a sudden it struck me that for the pilot, this was part of the American landscape in the same way as other great national monuments." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HIJACKING (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MAYORS (74%); ENGINEERING (72%); TERRORISM (72%); AIRLINES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); APPROVALS (62%) TERRORISM; PUBLIC OPINION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS 

COMPANY: MANCINI DUFFY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: QUINNIPIAC UNIVERSITY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541410 INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



743 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Fuzzy Data on Race 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
New York State's new data that show school test scores by race and income give a useful picture of the yawning achievement gap between black and white pupils. But the data are too crude to accomplish a larger goal: identifying problem schools as a step toward improving them.
 Compiling separate test results for different races and income groups, part of a new federal education law, is intended to serve two purposes. First, because learning occurs in families as well as schools, test data for race and income groups permit fairer comparisons. For example, children whose families can afford housing with quiet space, for study, or who have many books at home, will often have higher scores than low-income students, even if their schools are equally good. 
 The second purpose of breaking down scores demographically is to throw a spotlight on schools that systematically leave some children behind. A school can have good average scores if its white pupils score higher than similar pupils elsewhere, even if its minority pupils score lower than similar pupils elsewhere. The new data should help identify schools like these, schools that ignore disadvantaged children by hiding behind scores of those who are better off.
Such reporting is part of President Bush's education plan, and New York is carrying it out. But its reach is farther than its grasp. The new data are too imprecise to permit pure comparisons of school quality. To avoid comparing schools that are only superficially similar, policy makers will have to supplement the data with more expensive and nuanced observations.
Consider the family income breakdown. New York's data separate students who participate in the federal lunch program from those who do not. But the program's cutoff -- family income equal to 185 percent of the poverty line -- is so high that it cannot distinguish severely disadvantaged students from those without great hardship.
In New York, roughly 20 percent of children are from poor families, whose incomes are below about $18,000 for a family of four. Such children, many of whom are ill-housed, malnourished and from troubled homes, must overcome much greater obstacles to learning than those experienced by children at the top of the low-income range, with incomes of about $33,000.
Policy makers would err if they concluded that a school filled with working-class children outperformed one with poor children simply because it had higher scores, even though pupils in both places got subsidized lunches.
Another problem with using lunch data to assess disadvantage is its inaccuracy, particularly for whites. Poor white families are more likely to be temporarily poor, from a spate of bad luck. Poor black families are more likely to have been poor for a long time.
Because schools are not able to monitor families' movements in and out of poverty, white children who were previously poor often continue to receive lunch subsidies. This happens less often with black children whose poverty is longer-term. So whites are more likely to be economically secure than blacks, even when lunch eligibility is the same.
Even with better income data, racial breakdowns can be misleading. Most people think black and white children should perform similarly if their family incomes are similar. Educators are puzzled by the fact that on average, whites score higher than blacks even if their family incomes are the same.
But income alone is a poor proxy for social class. Black middle-income parents have lower socioeconomic status on average than white middle-income parents, and this affects children's achievement.
Because blacks are, over all, poorer than whites, middle-class blacks are more likely to have poor siblings and parents than whites earning the same income. More often, middle-class blacks help to support struggling relatives, and this leaves less income to devote to children for summer camp, better housing or other spending that aids achievement.
Black professionals are also more likely to be first in their families to achieve middle-class status. For young white adults, home ownership is often spurred by parents who help with down payments. First-generation middle-class families cannot get such help. So it is not surprising that black home ownership is lower than whites', even at the same income levels. This leaves many black middle-class children living in more distressed neighborhoods than whites whose parents earn the same.
Family structure also affects learning. In patterns that originated in the forced breakup of families during slavery, black children are less likely to be raised in traditional nuclear families than whites. Consider a black child raised, in part, by a grandparent. Even if the child's mother graduated from high school or college, the grandmother is less likely to have done so than a white child's grandmother.
While grandparents may provide nurturing support, children partly raised by less-educated grandparents will be exposed to less complex grammar and vocabulary than children raised only by college-educated parents. This also leads to more difficulty in school for black than for white children, even when both sets of parents are educated and have middle-class incomes.
In many schools, black children's poor performance may have nothing to do with these demographic confoundings, but result from unfocused school leadership, less adequate teachers, less access to challenging curriculum, poor disciplinary climate or placement in separate classes that warehouse low achievers. Data alone can't tell where failure results from such school practices that are amenable to reform.
So New York's new data can only be a warning, and may be misleading. To judge schools accurately, officials would have to send teams of knowledgeable outsiders to observe teachers, examine student work and determine if a school's instruction and disciplinary climate are likely to stimulate the highest possible learning in each group, regardless of home advantage.
Analyzing test data is a first step, but only a first step, toward making such determinations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); EDUCATION LAW (73%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; BLACKS 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



744 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
After a Push and a Pull, Stocks End the First Quarter Mostly Flat

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
During the stock market's first quarter, which ended yesterday, interest rates and corporate earnings fought each other to a draw on Wall Street.
But as the economy continues to strengthen while inflation remains quiescent, market strategists say stocks could be poised for a rally over the next several months.
 "Eventually the stronger influence on the market is going to be economic recovery and profit recovery," said Gail Seneca, chief investment officer at Seneca Capital Management, which oversees $15.5 billion. "Then we'll have a chance to really make some headway." 
 Plenty of doubters contend that stocks are already expensive relative to their earnings and that corporate profits may not recover as quickly as the bulls hope. With each new bit of stronger-than-expected economic news, however, the bulls are growing more confident. 
For the first quarter, greed and fear were almost perfectly balanced. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 major American companies fell fractionally, despite a small gain yesterday. The Dow Jones industrial average has risen 3.8 percent since Jan. 1, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index is down 5.4 percent.
Despite the year's less-than-impressive beginning, much of Wall Street expects deliverance soon. Corporate earnings are poised to rebound from their slide in 2001, analysts predict, and the economy's resilience after Sept. 11 has surprised even the most optimistic economists.
Industry analysts now expect earnings to rise 16.5 percent this year after falling 17.3 percent in 2001, according to Thomson Financial/First Call, which tracks analysts' forecasts. Some of that gain will come from an accounting change, but it is still a remarkable turnaround.
In addition, many companies have had their estimates for first-quarter earnings raised recently, said Charles Hill, research director for First Call. That is unusual: analysts are typically overly optimistic about the prospects of the companies they follow, and usually must cut their estimates in the waning weeks of a quarter. Moreover, the number of corporate earnings warnings has fallen sharply over the last three months.
In another sign of strength, the Commerce Department reported yesterday that the United States economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate during the fourth quarter of last year, a modest upward revision from the department's previous estimate of 1.4 percent.
Stocks were caught in the first quarter between the upward push of higher earnings and the downward pull of rising interest rates, Ms. Seneca said. Higher interest rates are bad for stocks, both because they hurt corporate earnings and because they make bonds more attractive to investors compared with stocks.
But Ms. Seneca said she thought that the threat of rising rates had been overstated. Inflation is moderate and under control, so the Federal Reserve, which lowered short-term interest rates 11 times last year, probably will not need to raise them in the near future, she said. Pressure on long-term rates, which have risen more than a percentage point since November, should remain modest.
As investors realize that the threat of higher interest rates has been exaggerated, Ms. Seneca said, they will begin to focus on the strength in corporate profits.
Ms. Seneca said she expected the S.& P. 500 to finish the year at 1,250 to 1,275. The index closed yesterday at 1,147.39, up 2.81, or 0.25 percent. The Nasdaq ended the day at 1,845.35, up 18.60, or 1.02 percent, while the Dow Jones industrial average finished at 10,403.94, down 22.97, or 0.22 percent.
Jeff Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, is even more optimistic. He predicts that the S.& P. 500 will end 2002 at 1,350, a gain of 18 percent from its close yesterday.
"Core inflation tends to fall two to three quarters after the recession ends," Mr. Applegate said. As a result, the Federal Reserve should be able to keep interest rates steady even as the economy strengthens.
"All other things being equal, I think we ought to have a better second quarter than first quarter," he said.
More bearish analysts worry that even though the S.& P. has fallen 25 percent from its peak in 2000 and the Nasdaq has slumped more than 60 percent, stocks remain expensive relative to their earnings, giving the market little room for error. With the S.& P. 500 trading at 22 times its expected earnings for this year, either higher inflation or an unexpected economic slowdown could punish stocks, said Donald H. Straszheim, founder of Straszheim Global Advisors and a former chief economist at Merrill Lynch.
Rising energy prices and investor concerns about the quality of corporate accounting could also torpedo a rally.
"P.E.'s here are really quite rich relative to a lot of places around the world," Mr. Straszheim said of price-to-earnings ratios. "They are quite rich relative to history."
Investors, he added, "shouldn't let the wish be father to the thought."
Mr. Straszheim said the market might remain in a trading range for several years as it worked toward a price-to-earnings ratio closer to its historical average of 15. "This is going to be for some time a trader's market," he said.
Even so, the strength of the economy's rally has surprised Mr. Straszheim. "I am much more optimistic about the economy and the markets than I was two months ago," he said. "It has been just a remarkable turnaround."
Subodh Kumar, chief investment strategist at CIBC World Markets, said Mr. Straszheim's view was overly pessimistic. "Because inflation is in check, there's no reason for us to go back to a 15 P.E.," he said. Mr. Kumar, an unbridled bull, said he expected corporate earnings to rise more than 35 percent this year and an additional 15 percent in 2003.
But Mr. Hill of First Call warned against overly optimistic projections of profit growth. Analysts are now predicting 30 percent year-over-year profit growth for the third quarter of this year, followed by 42 percent growth for the fourth.
Those predictions are improbable, especially because the recession last year now appears to have been relatively mild, making a strong recovery less likely, Mr. Hill said.
"We're plowing new ground here in how a recovery from this kind of recession looks," Mr. Hill said. "You're going to get some good gains over the next two or three months. Enjoy it, but don't enjoy it too much until we know what the second half is going to look like." --------------------

Treasuries Move Lower
By Reuters
Treasuries finished the first quarter of the year sharply lower yesterday as strong economic reports stirred investor fears of higher interest rates.
Robust reports on regional manufacturing and consumer sentiment helped knock prices lower in a shortened trading session after a two-day run-up in prices.
"The market hasn't had a very good quarter," said Bill Tedford, director of fixed income at Stephens Capital Management, which manages a $450 million government and agency bond fund. "Obviously, the market is fixated on the economic recovery."
By late in the day, the 10-year note fell 14/32 , to 96 2/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.39 percent from 5.34 percent on Wednesday.
The 30-year bond dropped 17/32 , to 94 4/32 . Its yield rose to 5.80 percent from 5.76 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since Dec. 2001. (Source: The Bond Buyer) Graph: "Leaders and Laggards in the Quarter"Securities with the largest gains and declines in percentage terms in the first quarter of 2002, as calculated by The Associated Press. Preferred shares are excluded as are securities that began the quarter at less than $5 a share. No more than one class of a security is listed. Graphs show closing price change Dec. 31 March 28 in Dollars and Percent.(pg. C7) Leading UnderwritersManaging underwriters of corporate securities, ranked by dollar amount raised through new issues in the United States for the first quarter of 2002. For this ranking, the lead manager is given credit for the entire issue. Manager: CitigroupDollar volume (millions): $109,482.5Number of issues: 318Share of market: 13.6%Rank in 1st qtr. 2001: 2 Manager: Merrill LynchDollar volume (millions): 92,048.2Number of issues: 368Share of market: 11.4Rank in 1st qtr. 2001: 1 Manager: Credit Suisse First BostonDollar volume (millions): 75,404.9Number of issues: 245Share of market: 9.4Rank in 1st qtr. 2001: 3 Manager: J. P. Morgan ChaseDollar volume (millions): 73,692.4Number of issues: 226Share of market: 9.2Rank in 1st qtr. 2001: 4 Manager: Lehman BrothersDollar volume (millions): 65,807.5Number of issues: 180Share of market: 8.2Rank in 1st qtr. 2001: 6 Manager: Goldman, SachsDollar volume (millions): 61,962.4Number of issues: 146Share of market: 7.7Rank in 1st qtr. 2001: 7 Manager: Morgan Stanley Dean WitterDollar volume (millions): 61,912.3Number of issues: 201Share of market: 7.7Rank in 1st qtr. 2001: 5 Manager: UBS WarburgDollar volume (millions): 53,607.7Number of issues: 175Share of market: 6.7Rank in 1st qtr. 2001: 10 Manager: Banc of America SecuritiesDollar volume (millions): 48,613.2Number of issues: 232Share of market: 6.0Rank in 1st qtr. 2001: 8 Manager: Deutsche BankDollar volume (millions): 37,419.7Number of issues: 113Share of market: 4.7Rank in 1st qtr. 2001: 11 (Source:Thomson Financial Securities Data)(pg. C7) Chart: "Standing StillThe market made little gain during the first quarter, but many investors were heartened after the losses of the last two years. Dow Industrials: + 3.81% Standard & Poor's 500: 0.06%Nasdaq Composite: 5.39% Wall Street is counting on a projected -- but still uncertain -- surge in corporate profits to propel the stock market higher. (Source: Thomson Financial/First Call The New York Times)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%)

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



745 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Walter Hewlett Files Suit To Block Compaq Merger
Walter Hewlett, who has fought bitterly to keep the company his father helped create from merging with Compaq, took his fight to court in an effort to block the $24 billion deal that Hewlett-Packard says it has won.
 The lawsuit is the latest chapter in an unusual and sometimes harsh campaign by a dissident director to quash a friendly merger. Though the final results of an official count are not expected for several weeks, Hewlett-Packard and Compaq have stepped up their integration efforts. Page C2. 

Defaults Seen at Latin Phone Units
BellSouth and Verizon Communications signaled that their Latin American operations were preparing to default on hundreds of millions of dollars of debt because of economic problems in Brazil and Argentina. C4.

Verizon is beginning a brand image campaign that asserts it helps its customers "make progress every day." Advertising. C2.

Digeo Plans to Acquire Moxi Digital
Ending more than a month of speculation about its fate, Moxi Digital, a prominent Silicon Valley start-up, announced that it was being acquired by Digeo, the interactive television company founded by Paul Allen, a co-founder of Microsoft. C6.

Ex-Global Worker Faces One Charge
A federal magistrate judge in New Hampshire dismissed a charge of identity fraud against Steven W. Sutcliffe, a former employee of Global Crossing, who was accused of posting the Social Security numbers of employees on the Internet. But the magistrate let stand a charge of threatening executives. C6.

Growth Revised Up at a 1.7% Pace
The economy grew at a faster pace in the fourth quarter than previously estimated, the Commerce Department said. The economy expanded at a 1.7 percent annual pace in the quarter, a turnaround from a 1.3 percent contraction in the third quarter. C11.

Prescription Drug Spending Climbs
Spurred by heavy advertising for a handful of blockbuster products and a jump in prices, consumer spending on prescription drugs rose more than 17 percent last year, to $154.5 billion in pharmacies and discount stores, according to a new study. Mail-order drug sales also rose sharply, to $20.7 billion. A24.

Bigger Supply of Smallpox Vaccine
Federal officials said they might now have access to much more smallpox vaccine than had been thought, a finding that many said changed their options in responding to a terrorist attack with smallpox. The 15.4 million doses in a government stockpile can be diluted with confidence fivefold without losing potency. Richard J. Markham, above, chief executive for the American operations of Aventis Pharma, said the company told the government years ago that its vaccine unit, Aventis Pasteur, had a stockpile of 70 million to 90 million doses of the vaccine. A1.

Aventis Pasteur has been quietly testing the effectiveness of tens of millions of doses of smallpox vaccine, which had been made in one of its factories more than 40 years ago and then stored in freezers. A19.

Quest to Keep Film Jobs at Home
Are movies physical objects or intangible services? The answer could help determine whether American film industry workers succeed in a quest to discourage Hollywood studios from shooting movies on foreign soil. World Business, Section W.

Markets Closed for Good Friday
Financial markets in the United States and many other countries will be closed today in observance of Good Friday. They will reopen on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,403.94 down 22.97Nasdaq composite -- 1,845.35 up 18.6010-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.39% 0.05The euro -- $0.8708 down 0.0019The dollar -- 132.68 yen down 0.01 Graph: "TODAY" shows personal income figures from August 2001-January 2002.February figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Graph shows Hewlett-Packard figures for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); VACCINES (89%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); MAGISTRATES (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (88%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); SMALLPOX (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (86%); STOCK INDEXES (85%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); JUDGES (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); STARTUPS (69%); BRANDING (68%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (68%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (68%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (68%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); PRICE CHANGES (65%); IDENTITY THEFT (65%); PHARMACIES (62%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (60%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (82%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (82%); SANF (BIT) (82%); SAN (PAR) (82%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (82%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); LATIN AMERICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



746 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Ex-Employee of Global Has Mixed Day in Court

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
A federal magistrate judge in New Hampshire dismissed a charge of identity fraud yesterday against a former employee of Global Crossing accused of posting the Social Security numbers of thousands of employees on the Internet but the magistrate let stand a separate charge of threatening executives.
 Magistrate James R. Muirhead also said at a hearing yesterday morning in Concord, N.H., that Steven W. Sutcliffe, a former technical support worker at the company's offices in Beverly Hills, Calif., should be held without bail. 
 According to a criminal complaint by the F.B.I., Mr. Sutcliffe used his Web site to threaten to hurt or kill Global Crossing executives after he was fired by the company last September. He could face up to five years in prison if convicted of the charge: interstate transmission of threats. 
Mr. Sutcliffe, 40, is to be taken by United States marshals from New Hampshire, where he was arrested by the F.B.I. on Wednesday, to Los Angeles to stand trial in federal court, said Thom Mrozek, a public affairs officer for the United States attorney's office in Los Angeles.
That office, which pursued Mr. Sutcliffe through its computer crimes section, could still decide to charge him with identity fraud at his indictment scheduled to take place in 10 days, Mr. Mrozek said. 
Mr. Sutcliffe has been living in New Hampshire since January, according to the F.B.I., which conducted a five-month investigation of his activities. He moved there to be close to his brother, who lives in Auburn, N.H., said Jonathan Saxe, a public defender representing Mr. Sutcliffe.
Mr. Sutcliffe's Web site was still functioning yesterday, though some of the files related to the F.B.I.'s charges against him had been removed. A spokeswoman for Global Crossing said the company was pleased to learn of his arrest.
Global Crossing has eliminated about 8,000 jobs since last year as it approached a financial collapse that resulted in a bankruptcy filing in late January. Mr. Sutcliffe said in an interview last week that he was dismissed by the company for not agreeing to supply a Social Security number.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Sutcliffe, a former technical support employee at Global Crossing, picketed the company's Beverly Hills offices in 2001. He is accused of using his Web site to threaten company executives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); MAGISTRATES (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); IDENTITY THEFT (90%); JUDGES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); COMPUTER CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); BAIL (75%); MARSHALS (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); INTERVIEWS (61%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); IDENTITY FRAUD; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BAIL; THREATS AND THREATENING MESSAGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%) GLOBAL CROSSING; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; MUIRHEAD, JAMES R; SUTCLIFFE, STEVEN WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CONCORD, NH, USA (90%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



747 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Growth Revised Upward, to 1.7% Last Quarter 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 28 

 BODY:
The United States economy grew at a faster pace in the fourth quarter than previously estimated, the Commerce Department said today.
 The economy expanded at a 1.7 percent annual pace from October through December, the fastest in a year and a turnaround from a 1.3 percent contraction in the third quarter. 
 The size of the gross domestic product -- the value of all goods and services produced -- increased in the final quarter of 2001 because of a surge in consumer and military spending in the months after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11. Growth was stronger than the 1.4 percent reported by the Commerce Department last month and the fastest since a 1.9 percent increase in the final three months of 2000. 
"The recession is over," said William Sullivan, senior economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in Jersey City. "This is paving the way for the economic rebound that's taking place this quarter."
Still, the weak economy has hurt corporate profits, which tumbled 10.6 percent in the fourth quarter, on an after-tax basis, the report showed. This was the biggest quarterly drop since the first quarter of 1998.
For all of 2001, the Commerce Department said, corporate profits fell 15.9 percent, the largest full-year decline since 1982.
Another report today showed that Chicago-area manufacturing expanded in March for a second consecutive month. The index of manufacturing climbed to 55.7 in March after rising to 53.1 in February, according to the National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago. These were the first consecutive increases since June and July 2000, when manufacturing started to slow in advance of the broader economic slump ahead.
"I'm pretty optimistic and confident that we have turned around and the economy is going to be expanding," Robert Parry, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said.
Confident consumers, whose purchases account for two-thirds of the economy, may still lead the economy. The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index rose to a 15-month high of 95.7 in March from 90.7 in February.
Consumer spending grew at a 6.1 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter, the fastest since the second quarter of 1998, today's report on the gross domestic product showed.
But the rebound has not led to any notable increases in jobs, a report from the Labor Department showed. The number of workers filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits rose 18,000 last week, to 394,000, the highest since mid-January, the report said.
Government spending increased at a 10.2 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter, the strongest since an 11.1 percent rise in the second quarter of 1978. Military spending rose at a 9 percent pace, the fastest in a year. Nonmilitary federal spending increased 16 percent, the fastest in a year and a half.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph shows initial jobless claims from October 2001-March 2002.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "Real Economic Growth"Annual rate of change in gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasons and inflation. 4th Qtr. Final To: +1.7%From: +1.4 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (92%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (84%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); TERRORISM (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LABOR; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (64%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (59%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CHICAGO (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



748 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Cut Chief's Pay to $21.9 Million in '01 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
J. P. Morgan Chase paid its chief executive, William B. Harrison Jr., $21.9 million in 2001, 61 percent less than a year earlier, after the bank posted its first quarterly loss in five years, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 J. P. Morgan Chase cut Mr. Harrison's stock options and long-term incentive pay in a year in which investment-banking revenue fell, losses from loans and venture-capital investing mounted and customers like Enron failed or stopped paying back debt. The bank paid Mr. Harrison $56.5 million in 2000, including salary, bonus and options. 
 Mr. Harrison was the latest Wall Street chief executive to have his compensation cut as profit in the industry fell by more than half in 2001. The falling stock market and slowing economy damped initial public offerings and mergers last year, cutting the fees investment banks make from advising companies.
J. P. Morgan faces $2.06 billion of potential losses from its dealings with Enron, which filed for bankruptcy protection in December.
Mr. Harrison received stock options valued at $4.8 million at the time they were granted, compared with $46.2 million in 2000, though the awards booked that year covered two years of options grants, according to the regulatory filing.
The bank did not pay Mr. Harrison restricted stock in 2001, while the previous year he received $3.1 million in such stock.
Mr. Harrison received $10 million for engineering Chase Manhattan's purchase of J. P. Morgan in 2000. Half of the award was in cash, with the remainder in restricted stock that will be worthless if J. P. Morgan shares do not reach $52 in the four years before Jan. 25, 2007.
That would be a 46 percent gain from current levels. J. P. Morgan Chase shares were last that high in February of last year.
Mr. Harrison will receive a similar package of merger compensation this year, the filing said.
The bank, a conglomerate of New York-based financial institutions, will hold its annual meeting of shareholders in Tampa, Fla., on May 21.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); BONUS PAY (70%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (68%) WAGES AND SALARIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: HARRISON, WILLIAM B JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (76%); FLORIDA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



749 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: The Netherlands: Strike At Philips 

BYLINE:  By Edmund L. Andrews (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Six thousand workers went on a one-day strike at Royal Philips Electronics N.V. in the Netherlands yesterday and threatened to stop work again next week if the company does not agree to larger wage increases. Philips, which suffered heavy losses last year, has been restructuring. The unions want a 3.5 percent increase in pay to keep pace with inflation, which is running at about 4 percent, but Philips management is offering only 2 percent. Separately, Philips became the latest large European company to announce that it will adopt the generally accepted accounting standards that are used in the United States.
 Edmund L. Andrews (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STRIKES (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (84%) ELECTRONICS; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (94%)

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS 

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (94%); PHIA (AMS) (94%); PHG (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS (90%); EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%) NETHERLANDS

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



750 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: The Old Downtown Economy Won't Return 

BYLINE:  By Kathryn S. Wylde; Kathryn S. Wylde is chief executive of the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce.

 BODY:
The public debate over the World Trade Center site has focused on what may happen above ground -- an appropriate memorial, a visionary streetscape. But there has been far too little discussion of what it will take to restore Lower Manhattan as an economic engine.
 Sept. 11 created a $54 billion hole in the economy of Lower Manhattan, displacing more than 100,000 jobs and destroying 15 million square feet of commercial property. Half the jobs lost were in financial services, which represented 49 percent of the jobs downtown and 77 percent of Lower Manhattan's economy. 
 The unprecedented scale of the economic damage is so vast that traditional business retention strategies are not going to restore what was the nation's third largest business district. Such strategies -- abatements of taxes on real estate and sales, discounts on energy -- were already outmatched by other trends: new technologies have enabled financial companies to move to where space and talent were cheaper than in New York, and Wall Street firms were already migrating to Midtown to be closer to their customers and to ease employee commutes.
Before September, CIBC Oppenheimer had decided to move to Midtown, while J.P. Morgan had already relocated to Park Avenue as part of its consolidation with Chase. Since September, major companies whose space was damaged or destroyed -- Lehman Brothers, Cantor Fitzgerald, Fiduciary Trust -- have relocated to Midtown, while others like Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and Citigroup have consolidated operations in Midtown and elsewhere.
Restoring Lower Manhattan will require an aggressive program to lure new knowledge-based industries that can drive economic growth. New York's government and business leaders can accomplish this, but only if they understand the needs of businesses that depend on intellectual capital.
Wall Street's outsized contribution to the city's output and tax base -- at least 14 percent of all city tax revenue -- overshadowed some of the software, information services and consulting companies that had put down roots in Lower Manhattan in the last decade. Even after the dot-com bubble burst, Lower Manhattan was home to hundreds of technology companies. As tech-based businesses bounce back, their presence downtown should grow.
Biotechnology is one example of an industry that New York has failed to nurture. New York's major medical research institutions have long excelled at producing medical breakthroughs. But when it is time to create the companies to commercialize these advances, entrepreneurs look to Boston or the San Francisco Bay Area, where there are customized laboratories and a critical mass of entrepreneurs, partly because real estate is so expensive here. That is less true now. The vacancy rate has been rising, saddling the city with 11 million square feet of vacant office space since about the middle of 2001.
The terrorist attack has also forced New York businesses to rethink how their operations are clustered, and many companies are taking steps to avoid concentrating operations in one place. This is one reason why Lower Manhattan may not be able to win back all of the work force that was there. Even as City Hall and Albany work to improve conditions in Lower Manhattan, they should not miss this chance to channel more jobs to Long Island City in Queens, downtown Brooklyn, Harlem and other areas.
A drop in tax revenues downtown needn't be disastrous if it is compensated for by development elsewhere in the five boroughs. Indeed, spreading corporate growth around the city would do a great deal of good and would open up Lower Manhattan to a wider range of uses like housing and cultural institutions as well as providing space for a fitting memorial.
The truth is that the downtown we knew last autumn will not be coming back. The vitality that the World Trade Center symbolized can, however, be brought back, but in new ways and not only in Lower Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); TERRORISM (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); HIJACKING (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; TAXATION; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); CIBC OPPENHEIMER (55%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%)

PERSON: WYLDE, KATHRYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



751 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Memphis Journal; 
Title Bout Promises the Sweet Sound of Money

BYLINE:  By JOHN W. FOUNTAIN

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, March 28 

 BODY:
Down on legendary Beale Street, in the heart of this southern metropolis, there is music in the streets. 
 But what Harry Chapman, 49, hears these days is not just the sound of twanging blues or the sawing, electric guitar licks of rock 'n' roll that made the home of Elvis Presley famous. It is the sweet sound of money, to the tune of millions of dollars that the June 8 heavyweight bout between Mike Tyson and Lennox Lewis is expected to generate for this city, and the potential for Mr. Chapman to earn a small share in some way that he has yet to figure out. 
 "I just want to know how I can get a legal dollar off this. I'm too pretty to be in jail," Mr. Chapman joked, standing outside the Blues City Cafe on the corner of Beale and Second Streets. He waved menus at passers-by, trying to draw them into the restaurant, where he works.
Mr. Chapman, who has lived in Memphis nearly all his life, is among the many residents in this city of 650,000 who embraced the announcement this week that Memphis had won its bid to play host to the title fight that has finally found a home. Other cities, especially Washington, coveted the bout after the Nevada State Athletic Commission voted 4 to 1 in January to deny Mr. Tyson a license to fight after he got into a brawl at a news conference with Mr. Lewis. 
Still, not everyone around here is rejoicing over the idea that the Tyson-Lewis fight, being called the Rumble on the River and expected to be one of the most lucrative in boxing history, will be held at the 20,000-seat Pyramid Arena. Opposition, though muted, has centered on concerns about Mr. Tyson that have led officials in other states to bar him from fighting -- that he was convicted of rape, bit off an opponent's ear, went berserk at a recent weigh-in and had years of other troubles in and out of the ring.
But nothing has quelled the zeal of many here to be the site of the bout, which the Memphis Convention and Visitors Bureau estimates will bring in at least $10 million for hotels, restaurants and nightclubs alone. Mayor Willie W. Herenton, 61, sees the fight as a priceless opportunity to showcase his city to the world.
"As a mayor, I've got to look at a big picture," Mr. Herenton said. "The big picture that this event presents is international visibility for my city and economic benefit. Are there critics within Memphis and across the United States concerning this event? Of course."
Sitting in his City Hall office, with a view of the Pyramid Arena, Mr. Herenton, a former Golden Gloves boxer, pointed to a letter from a political supporter who vehemently opposes having the fight in Memphis. Mr. Herenton counters that "Mr. Tyson received his license to fight in Tennessee. 
"He has a right to make a living," Mr. Herenton said. "Do I approve of his behavior in every respect? Of course not. This event will be one of the biggest sporting events in the history of boxing. And my city has the opportunity to host this event."
For others, the reason for welcoming the fight is simple.
"Take their money," said Mr. Chapman. Of Mr. Tyson's woes outside the ring, he said, "What that man does in his own time is his business."
Memphis is, by most measures, not your usual venue for a heavyweight championship fight. This is not Las Vegas or Atlantic City. This is the home of Graceland, where hundreds of thousands sojourn each year to glimpse the mansion where the king of rock 'n' roll lived, the city where the image of Presley and B. B. King are enshrined in bronze, the place where Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was felled by an assassin's bullet, home of the smoked barbecue ribs with finger licking sauce, not a fight town. 
Nor does it have the lure of Nashville, the country music capital of the world, or Atlanta, the hub of the South. But there is some allure here. Memphis is a riverside city high on southern hospitality and piping with some of the frills of the big city, with nearby casinos in Tunica, Miss., and even an N.B.A. team. A lot of people around here say the city is up and coming. With all eyes in the boxing world now turned toward Memphis, many contend it will have arrived.
"A fight like this draws attention to the city and gives us a chance to show people who and what we really are," said Denise DuBois Taylor, spokeswoman for the Memphis Convention and Visitors Bureau. "We are blues and barbecue and rock 'n' roll. A lot of people think we're a sleepy little river town, just a lot of misperceptions. Or if you say Memphis, it's a blank page. 
"Obviously we're excited. And we invite all 22,000 attendees of the Pyramid to leave as much money as possible," Ms. Taylor said.
Even at the National Civil Rights Museum in the old Lorraine Motel, where a red and white wreath on a second floor terrace marks the spot where Dr. King was killed, the director, Beverly Robertson, said she also looked forward to the fight and its residual benefits. That one of the fighters is Mike Tyson does not matter, Ms. Robertson said.
"I think that Memphis is sort of a forgiving market," she said. "We're still trying to make up for the fact that Dr. King got killed here. So I think Memphians tend to be a little more forgiving than some people in some other places."
Ms. Robertson also suspects that while fight fans are in Memphis, they will eventually get around to visiting the National Civil Rights Museum. At least, she hopes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry Chapman of Blues City Cafe on Beale Street in Memphis has heard many opinions from passers-by about the Tyson-Lewis fight coming to Memphis as he hands out menus to attract new customers. (Troy Glasgow for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); BOXING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (87%); CITIES (78%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (74%); POP & ROCK (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (64%); SEX OFFENSES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (55%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



752 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Drug Spending Rises Sharply At Pharmacies and by Mail 

BYLINE:  By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Spurred by heavy advertising for a handful of blockbuster products and a jump in prices, consumer spending on prescription drugs at pharmacies rose more than 17 percent last year, to $154.5 billion, according to a new study. Mail-order drug sales rose 27 percent, to $20.7 billion.
 Price increases generated 37 percent of the $22.5 billion increase in drug sales, the study said, and the rising number of new prescriptions accounted for 39 percent. The rest of the increase was attributed to a shift to costlier drugs, it said. 
 The sales increases were led by two cholesterol treatments, Lipitor, the nation's largest-selling drug last year, with sales of $4.5 billion, and Zocor, with $2.7 billion. Lipitor is made by Pfizer, and Zocor by Merck.
Other products propelling the sales increases included Vioxx, a Merck drug for arthritis; OxyContin, a painkiller made by Purdue Pharma; Zyprexa, an Eli Lilly drug for schizophrenia; and Celexa, a Forest Laboratories drug for depression.
Sales of the 50 drugs that had the biggest price increases rose 34 percent, on average, in 2001. The average increase in sales was 9 percent for 9,400 other drugs tracked by the study.
Spending on drugs, long the fastest-growing component of health care, have been rising 17 percent or more a year since 1998, according to the National Institute for Health Management, the nonprofit research group behind the study.
The rising number of prescriptions, reflecting drug industry marketing to doctors and consumers, was still the main ingredient in increased spending on drugs, the study said, but price increases played a larger role last year.
Price increases, which had averaged 3.6 percent a year since 1993, jumped to 5.97 percent in December 2001, more than triple the inflation rate of 1.6 percent reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Stephen W. Schondelmeyer, a professor of pharmaceutical economics at the University of Minnesota, said drug companies had announced price increases on several products since January.
Among the reasons, Dr. Schondelmeyer said, were efforts by drug makers to raise prices ahead of possible government restrictions and before blockbuster drugs lost patent protection.
As patents expire on several best sellers, including the cholesterol drugs and the allergy drugs like Claritin, they face competition from cheaper generics and nonprescription versions.
Schering-Plough, which makes Claritin, has raised that drug's price eight times in the last two years, Dr. Schondelmeyer said.
Nancy Chockley, president of the institute, which is financed by Blue Cross and Blue Shield health plans, said the relative economic importance of a few dozen drugs offered opportunities for states and other large buyers to control their spending.
"They can concentrate on finding cost strategies for just those drugs," Ms. Chockley said.
Drug costs play a big part in the rising costs of Medicaid and state employees' health benefits, which are straining many state budgets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); INFLATION (78%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (78%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); STATISTICS (73%); CHOLESTEROL (70%); MEDICAID (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); PATENTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (93%); ELI LILLY & CO (91%); PFIZER INC (90%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (61%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (93%); MRK (NYSE) (93%); LLY (SWX) (91%); LLY (NYSE) (91%); LEL (LSE) (91%); PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFEB (BRU) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



753 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-16
Israel Moves on Arafat
As Arabs Approve Offer
Israel declared Yasir Arafat an "enemy" and sent tanks and armored personnel carriers to fully isolate him in his Ramallah headquarters and to launch an "extended operation" in the Palestinian territories. Bulldozers breached a wall of Mr. Arafat's compound amid heavy gunfire, Palestinian officials said. A1

The Arab nations committed themselves to accepting Israel as a neighbor if it met a set of conditions leading to creation of a Palestinian state. The Saudi proposal, adopted at a summit in Beirut, departs from previous Arab attempts by assuring Israel that the Arabs would forge "normal relations" with Israel. A1

Saddam Hussein secured broad Arab support in opposing any American military action against Iraq. A1

Polish Bishop Resigns
Pope John Paul II accepted the resignation of a high-ranking Polish prelate, Archbishop Juliusz Paetz of Poznan, left, who had been accused of molesting young seminarians. A12

World Briefing A16

NATION CHALLENGED A18-20
Report on Towers' Fall
Finds Fire Systems Failed
Fireproofing, sprinkler systems and the water supply for hoses largely failed in the twin towers on Sept. 11 in the face of a fire that drove temperatures up to 2,000 degrees and generated heat equal to the energy output of three or more nuclear power plants, a draft of a federal report said. Still, the report says, the towers showed surprising and life-saving resiliency. A1

Big Cache of Smallpox Vaccine
Federal officials said they might have access to much more smallpox vaccine than thought, disclosing that Aventis Pasteur of France has long had up to 90 million doses in cold storage. The finding alters options for responding to a smallpox attack. A1

The vaccine has significant risks and the likelihood of terrorists' using smallpox is considered low, federal health officials said. A19

The Pentagon's Confidence
The Defense Department's top civilian and military leaders said the armed forces were able to expand the war on terror despite the tempo of operations in Afghanistan and concerns from some commanders that troops were being stretched thin. A18

A Navy Seal was killed while training near Kandahar, Afghanistan. A18

Rumsfeld Defends Detentions
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said that preventing Afghan war prisoners from returning to the battlefield was justification for a plan to hold some prisoners even if they were acquitted in military tribunals. A18

U.S. Affirms Death Penalty Plan
Attorney General John Ashcroft said prosecutors would seek the death penalty for Zacarias Moussaoui, who faces trial on conspiracy charges in the Sept. 11 terror attacks. A20

NATIONAL A22-25
G.O.P. Tensions Exposed
In Round of Finger-Pointing
Leading Republicans in Congress complain that the White House is not sufficiently energetic in helping them in the November elections. President Bush's advisers respond that members of Congress have not appreciated his help and should be far more aggressive in defending him. A24

President Bush said the Senate's rejection of Charles W. Pickering Sr. as an appellate court nominee would not dissuade him from pushing for "good, conservative judges." A24

Vehicles May Return to Dunes
Federal officials want to reopen land in the Imperial Sand Dunes Recreation Area in California that was put off limits to dune buggies and other off-road vehicles in late 2000. A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH
Study Links TV and Violence
Teenagers and young adults who watch more than an hour of television daily are more likely to commit violent crimes and engage in other forms of aggressive behavior later. A25

Prescription Use Soars
Consumer spending on prescription drugs rose more than 17 percent last year, to $154.5 billion in pharmacies; mail-order sales rose 27 percent, to $20.7 billion, a study found. A24

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
Firefighters' Financial Firm
Has a Troubled Past
Families of city firefighters killed on Sept. 11 who seek financial guidance are being steered by the firefighters' union to a Long Island firm, Goldis Financial Group, whose record is tarnished by questionable and in some cases illegal conduct by employees and business associates, some of whom had mob ties, officials say. A1

U.S. Indicts City Councilman
Angel Rodriguez, a Brooklyn Democrat who recently sought the speakership, was charged with demanding a $1.5 million break on a real estate deal from a developer in exchange for supporting renovation of a waterfront warehouse in his district. B1

Mr. Rodriguez resigned his committee positions but retains his council seat and its $90,000 annual salary. B4

EDUCATION
Inquiry Finds Favoritism
SUNY officials repeatedly violated university rules and twisted the process of selecting consultants so that they could award contracts to an architect who is Governor Pataki's neighbor and a relative by marriage, the state inspector general said. B1

OBITUARIES A26-27
Billy Wilder
The caustic writer and director who won six Academy Awards and wide acclaim but who spent his last two decades begging Hollywood to let him make another movie was 95. A1

WEEKEND E1-32; E33-42

SPORTS D1-8
Male Coaches Feel Threatened
A number of the men who coach women's college basketball teams believe that they are being squeezed out because, as Geno Auriemma of Connecticut said, "it's not politically correct anymore" to hire men. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12
Enron and Qwest Had a Deal
Enron and the telecommunications giant Qwest Communications struck a deal last fall to swap fiber optic network capacity and services at exaggerated prices in an effort to improve each company's financial picture, executives said. C1

Arthur Andersen said it would proceed with a plan proposed by Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, to split its auditing and consulting work into separate businesses. The Justice Department signaled its intention to proceed with prosecution of the firm on obstruction-of-justice charges in the Enron case. C1

Good Quarter for Blue Chips
The Dow ended the first quarter up 3.8 percent, but the S.& P. 500 fell fractionally and the Nasdaq finished 5.4 percent lower. Market strategists say stocks may be poised for a rally as the economy continues to strengthen and inflation remains quiescent. Markets are closed today. C1

Bid to Block Compaq Deal
Walter B. Hewlett, son of a co-founder of Hewlett-Packard, asked a Delaware court to block the company's $24 billion merger with Compaq, citing actions by managers that he said were improper. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: Mideast peace, Mideast carnage; college hoops and academics; vindication on clean air; Mr. Television.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VACCINES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SMALLPOX (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (88%); TERRORISM (87%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (84%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); NAVIES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); MILITARY COURTS (74%); WAR ON TERROR (74%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); RELIGION (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); CONSPIRACY (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); POWER PLANTS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); CAPITAL CRIMES (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); ACQUITTAL (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (54%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (54%); SANF (BIT) (54%); SAN (PAR) (54%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (72%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



754 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine's Leader Struggles to Go Quietly 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine, March 27 

 BODY:
Nearing the end of his political career, President Leonid D. Kuchma is fighting for a safe exit from public life in parliamentary elections this coming Sunday.
 Nationwide balloting for the 450-seat Supreme Rada, or parliament, will determine whether Mr. Kuchma can galvanize a new majority that would enable him to pick his own successor to run in the 2004 presidential elections, and thereby stave off a raft of criminal proceedings that are expected to follow him out of office. 
 A strong sense of disillusionment with Mr. Kuchma hangs over the contest. His approval ratings have sunk to record lows, while the public perceives that the United States is no longer the champion of Ukraine it was in the aftermath of independence. Early on, Washington established itself as the largest foreign aid donor here to ensure the country would be cleared of nuclear weapons. It supported Mr. Kuchma in his struggle to appease millions of pensioners impoverished by the Soviet collapse. 
More recently the United States has distanced itself from Mr. Kuchma while supporting the development of democratic institutions. Mr. Kuchma's sagging fortunes have driven him toward a more confrontational approach with Washington and greater reliance on the pro-Russian industrial barons from whom he draws support.
The tension has been evident as the Bush administration, along with NATO, has tried to stop the flow of weapons from Ukraine to Macedonia, Africa and perhaps Iraq, and American officials have pressed for a full investigation into the deaths of journalists in Ukraine.
Days after the election, a team of agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation will arrive here, invited to assess the long-stalled inquiry into the death of Georgy Gongadze, a Ukrainian journalist whose decapitated body was found six weeks after he disappeared in September 2000. Mr. Kuchma was later revealed in secret recordings to be conspiring with top aides to abduct and terrorize Mr. Gongadze.
"Kuchma and his circle have two paths," said Oleksandr V. Turchinov, a top opposition strategist. "Either they gain a controlling majority that will ensure Kuchma's security, or the democratic forces will form a majority, and Kuchma and many of the people around him will go to jail. Therefore he is struggling for his life."
The F.B.I. team was due here last Sept. 13, but the trip was postponed due to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States. It is now scheduled to arrive in early April to review all aspects of the Ukrainian investigation into Mr. Gongadze's death. 
If Mr. Kuchma's forces succeed in building a new parliamentary majority, experts here say that he will begin the search for a prime minister and successor who will do for him what Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, has done for former President Boris N. Yeltsin: allow him a peaceful retirement free from prosecution on corruption allegations that have dogged him. 
"The president is concerned to avoid a situation where the deputies who would impeach him would have a majority," Ukraine's first president, Leonid Kravchuk, said in an interview. He is also running for Parliament, promoting a democratic-socialist model for Ukraine.
Ukraine's Constitution prohibits Mr. Kuchma from seeking a third term, and even a highly successful outcome this weekend would leave his factional forces well short of the two-thirds majority required to amend the constitution. 
The parliamentary contest pits "Our Ukraine," a bloc of center-right parties led by former Prime Minister Viktor Yushchenko, against "For a United Ukraine," a bloc of pro-Kuchma parties led by the chief of the presidential administration, Volodymyr Litvin. Mr. Litvin's organization has been accused of pressuring and intimidating public sector workers to get out the vote on behalf of Mr. Kuchma. 
A memo leaked this month that appeared to be from the presidential administration indicated that Mr. Kuchma's forces have plans "to secure technological breakdown of the electronic vote count system for at least two hours for detailed specification of results" on election night. Officials of the administration denounced it as false. 
With Mr. Kuchma's coalition trailing both Mr. Yushchenko's bloc and the Communists, concern that his forces will try to tamper with the vote results has prompted Europe's Organization of Security and Cooperation to mobilize 1,000 election observers to monitor many of the 33,000 polling stations on Sunday. 
Opinion polls have shown Mr. Yushchenko's coalition leading with about 25 percent of the vote, followed by the Communists under Petro Simonenko at about 15 percent and the pro-Kuchma parties at from 7 to 15 percent.
Some Ukrainians have cast this election as a battle between Russia and the United States for influence in Ukraine, a nation the size of France that is still struggling to put down the foundations of statehood 11 years after it declared independence.
Mr. Yushchenko is a popular reformer whose wife is American and once worked at the White House as a national security aide. The pro-Kuchma bloc commands the support of former Soviet industrialists in the southern and eastern regions of the country where Russian is still the predominant language.
Mr. Kuchma himself is a former Soviet rocket factory boss who has successfully played off both constituencies since coming to power in 1994, seeking closer ties to Europe and NATO while maintaining close relations with Moscow. 
But Western investors continue to shun Ukraine because of corruption and scandals surrounding Mr. Kuchma. So the 64-year-old leader has bolstered political and economic ties with Russia, seeking to rebuild parts of the Soviet-era military industrial complex that are able to compete with the United States and NATO countries in space technologies and arms sales abroad.
Though Mr. Yushchenko is hoping to succeed Mr. Kuchma, he has refused to declare open opposition to the president he once called "father," even though Mr. Kuchma played a prominent role in orchestrating a no-confidence vote last year that ended Mr. Yushchenko's tenure as prime minister. 
Mr. Yushchenko's bloc includes many regional candidates loyal to Mr. Kuchma. Some opposition leaders have accused Mr. Yushchenko of building a Trojan Horse that will do more to strengthen Mr. Kuchma than weaken him when the new Parliament is seated. 
Throughout the campaign, Mr. Yushchenko has refused to align himself with the popular opposition figure Yulia Tymoshenko, whom Mr. Kuchma fired as deputy prime minister and has repeatedly tried to jail. 
Ms. Tymoshenko's faction, along with the Socialists under Oleksandr Moroz and the Progressive Socialists under Natalya Vitrenko are trailing, but Ms. Tymoshenko's ratings were said to be surging in recent weeks. 
However, a resolution passed by the United States House of Representatives on March 21 urging the government of Ukraine to ensure a free and fair election process on Sunday drew immediate and harsh criticism across the political spectrum.
"We will either be a nation and a state, or we will be a football field where strategic partners play," Mr. Kuchma said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Leonid D. Kuchma of Ukraine cannot seek another term.; A homeless Ukrainian woman, with her dog in a cart, read election posters in Kiev this week. Voters will choose a new parliament on Sunday, and opposition parties are leading in public opinion polls. (Photographs by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ETHICS (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); CORRUPTION (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; ETHICS; PUBLIC OPINION; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS; ARMS SALES ABROAD; PUBLIC OPINION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) ;NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) TYLER, PATRICK E; KUCHMA, LEONID D (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%) UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) UKRAINE; MACEDONIA (FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC); AFRICA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



755 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Mideast Turmoil: THE OUTLOOK; 
Two-Edged Diplomacy

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, March 28 

 BODY:
In offering Israel terms for eventual peace with Arab states today, Arab leaders encouraged Palestinians, in the meantime, to keep fighting. 
 "It's not a question of terrorism," said Amr Moussa, the secretary general of the Arab League. "It's a question of occupation of Arab land, which necessarily leads to legitimate resistance." 
 This mixed message suggests why Yasir Arafat will have great difficulty enforcing the cease-fire he said tonight he was prepared to accept. The fact is that an increasingly muscular and effective Palestinian uprising enjoys overwhelming support in the Arab world, while any peace still seems far away. 
In endorsing a Saudi Arabian peace initiative today, Arab nations held out the prospect of normal relations with Israel, provided Israel withdraws from all the territory it occupied in the 1967 war and allows for a Palestinian state with its capital in Jerusalem and the return of refugees. The offer was at once new in its directness and familiar in its insistence on conditions Israel has long rejected.
The implication -- made explicit by many leaders here -- is that at least until Israel agrees to that proposal and begins to put it into effect, the fight should, and will, go on.
Recent American diplomacy in the region appears to have done little to bring a lasting peace closer. The quest for Arab support for a potential strike against Iraq has only drawn Arab states together in rejection of such a move and in the conviction that the Palestinian struggle is the overriding issue.
At the same time, the administration's rhetorical vision of a Palestinian state, delivered without an accompanying road map to get there, appears to have reinforced Palestinians' conviction that they are justified in fighting for such a state, some diplomats here say.
George W. Bush is the first American president to speak of a state of Palestine, and his administration has succeeded in embedding the idea in a United Nations resolution for the first time. The Bush administration's evident intent is to encourage Palestinians to lay down arms by holding out statehood as a reward.
But the effect, said one diplomat here, is to raise Palestinians' expectations and deepen their frustration by endorsing their demands for a national home without speeding their way to establishing it peacefully. 
"If they think it's going to buy off the militancy of the Palestinians, it's mistaken," this diplomat said. "It's going to increase it, because it gives it legitimacy."
As it talks of statehood, the Bush administration is demanding that Palestinians accept and put in place a cease-fire plan before embarking on substantive political negotiations. Mr. Arafat said tonight that he was ready to accept the plan, but with the details still in contention that assurance may not amount to much. 
To the Palestinians, this proposed truce is a mincing, miserly affair. Why, Palestinian officials have wondered in recent days, should they agree to a truce if it does not address demands for statehood that even the Bush administration has endorsed? 
In general, American credibility with Palestinians is at a low ebb, and it is suffering among Arab states generally. One reason is that many Arab and Palestinian officials think that the United States has taken an interest in the conflict only to strengthen its hand against Iraq.
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel has said that he will not negotiate over Palestinians' national grievances under fire, because to do so would be to reward terrorism. Palestinian officials argue that he is simply trying to avoid facing up to their demands for an Israeli withdrawal.
Farouk Kaddoumi, a senior Palestinian official who spoke here for Yasir Arafat, pointed to an imbalance between American means and ends. "The United States still hesitates to take a strict decision to stop the Israeli aggression, though it declared its vision for a Palestinian state and reaffirmed its decision in the United Nations resolution," he told the assembled leaders.
Calling the proposed cease-fire "deceptive," Mr. Kaddoumi said, "The United States is ignoring the Israeli actions, and claiming it is self-defense. This means that the Israeli-Arab conflict will be prolonged."
The Bush administration had sought approval of the Saudi initiative, and in giving it unanimously, the Arab states clearly expected something in return: American forbearance on Iraq. 
Israel has reacted warily to the Arab peace initiative, a fact that could pose problems of its own for President Bush. Although they may be seeking compensation from the Americans for supporting the Saudi proposal, Arab leaders clearly regarded it as in their own interest. It could aid their long quest to shift the onus in international opinion of the conflict from Palestinian violence to Israeli occupation.
Repeatedly, Arab leaders today sought to put Israel on the diplomatic defensive, saying that lasting peace depended on Israel's reaction.
President Bashir al-Assad of Syria, a bitter opponent of Israel, predicted that the initiative "will certainly confirm the desire of the Arabs to make peace and prove to the world that the Israelis are the ones who do not want peace."
Indeed, no one here seemed to expect the Israelis to embrace the initiative. Mr. Kaddoumi's speech amounted to an appeal for increased Arab support for a continuing Palestinian uprising, which he boasted had managed to "terrify the Israeli society" and suggested would not end until the occupation did.
"The Palestinian people are launching the war of Arab destiny to end the occupation," he said.
Precisely which means are acceptable in this war is less clear. On Wednesday, speaking before a Palestinian suicide bomber killed 20 Israelis in Netanya, President Assad suggested that all Israelis were fair targets. "The issue here is not an issue of who is civilian and who is military," he said. "In the case of Israel everyone is armed."
Mr. Arafat condemned the suicide bombing. He recently suggested that attacks within pre-1967 Israel were out of bounds. But many Palestinian leaders, including the top officials of Mr. Arafat's Fatah faction and even his security chiefs, have said that Palestinians should continue attacking Israeli settlers and soldiers as long as the Israelis remain in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
This is legal resistance to occupation, they argue, no more sinister than the struggle of American minutemen against British redcoats.
At the summit meeting today, Mr. Kaddoumi said that because of Palestinian fighting, Israel "lost stability and security; psychological problems spread, and unemployment and emigration rose." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); TERRORISM (72%); REFUGEES (69%) PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (84%) ARAB LEAGUE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) BENNET, JAMES; ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



756 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Defaults Seem Near for Latin Units of BellSouth and Verizon 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
The BellSouth Corporation and Verizon Communications, two of the largest telephone companies, signaled yesterday that their Latin American operations were preparing to default on hundreds of millions of dollars of debt because of economic problems in Brazil and Argentina.
 The defaults would be further evidence of a shift in the business climate in South America. Foreign utilities that leapt into the region's economies in the 1990's when they opened their markets to competition have had problems after policy changes and less generous international borrowing markets limited chances for profitability. 
 BellSouth's subsidiary in Brazil, the mobile phone carrier BCP, which primarily provides service in the city of Sao Paulo, missed a $375 million debt payment yesterday, people close to the company said. BellSouth and its Brazilian partner, the Safra Group, have been unable to reach a definitive solution for BCP's debt situation with its creditors, a group of large banks.
Brazil's abrupt currency devaluation in 1999 and subsequent economic slowdown are at the heart of BellSouth's problems in that country. Its unit's revenue is almost entirely in local currency, while its debt is mostly in dollars. That means it has fewer resources with which to honor its obligations abroad.
The default by the BellSouth unit would be one of the largest by a subsidiary of an American company in Brazil, and it is expected to lead to greater caution by banks that are considering lending to large Brazilian companies. While the default is not expected to alter the parent company's debt rating in the United States, BellSouth may need to take a charge against earnings because of its unit's difficulties in Brazil.
Jeff Battcher, a spokesman for BellSouth, declined to comment on the problems in Brazil. BellSouth is seeking to renegotiate a $1.7 billion loan it got from a group of banks in 1998.
In neighboring Argentina, a country with more severe economic problems than Brazil, Verizon sought to distance itself from the problems of its wireless communications company there by transferring a 17 percent stake in the company, CTI Holdings, to a newly created trust for its Argentine employees. Verizon will reduce its stake in the company to 48 percent from 65 percent as a result of the transfer.
The move will allow Verizon to shift CTI off its balance sheet, limiting the parent company's exposure to its losses, said Peter Thonis, a spokesman for Verizon. Problems at the Argentine company are not expected to affect Verizon's debt rating in the United States or have a large negative effect on earnings.
Verizon's unit in Argentina is seeking to renegotiate debt of about $1 billion, the company said in a regulatory filing last week. So far, CTI has missed a coupon payment of about $15 million to creditors, people close to the company said.
Verizon's Argentine unit would not be the first subsidiary of a foreign company to default on its debt in the country. MetroGas, a gas distributor controlled by the BG Group of Britain and Repson of Spain, has signaled plans to default on its debt as a result of Argentina's economic crisis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); TRENDS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CREDIT; FINANCES 

COMPANY: AT&T SOUTHEAST (96%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BELLSOUTH CORP; VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS; BCP TELECOMUNICACOES SA; SAFRA GROUP; CTI HOLDINGS 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (96%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (96%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%) BRAZIL (97%); ARGENTINA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%) LATIN AMERICA; BRAZIL; ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



757 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: The Smoke Machine 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In a way, it's a shame that so much of David Brock's "Blinded by the Right: The conscience of an ex-conservative" is about the private lives of our self-appointed moral guardians. Those tales will sell books, but they may obscure the important message: that the "vast right-wing conspiracy" is not an overheated metaphor but a straightforward reality, and that it works a lot like a special-interest lobby. 
 Modern political economy teaches us that small, well-organized groups often prevail over the broader public interest. The steel industry got the tariff it wanted, even though the losses to consumers will greatly exceed the gains of producers, because the typical steel consumer doesn't understand what's happening. 
 "Blinded by the Right" shows that the same logic applies to non-economic issues. The scandal machine that employed Mr. Brock was, in effect, a special-interest group financed by a handful of wealthy fanatics -- men like the Rev. Sun Myung Moon, whose cultlike Unification Church owns The Washington Times, and Richard Mellon Scaife, who bankrolled the scandalmongering American Spectator and many other right-wing enterprises. It was effective because the typical news consumer didn't realize what was going on. 
The group's efforts managed to turn Whitewater -- a $200,000 money-losing investment -- into a byword for scandal, even though an eight-year, $73 million investigation never did find any evidence of wrongdoing by the Clintons. Just imagine what the scandal machine could have done with more promising raw material -- such as the decidedly unusual business transactions of the young George W. Bush. 
But there is, of course, no comparable scandal machine on the left. Why not? 
One answer is that for some reason there is a level of anger and hatred on the right that has at best a faint echo in the anti-globalization left, and none at all in mainstream liberalism. Indeed, the liberals I know generally seem unwilling to face up to the nastiness of contemporary politics. 
It's also true that in the nature of things, billionaires are more likely to be right-wing than left-wing fanatics. When billionaires do support more or less liberal causes, they usually try to help the world, not take over the U.S. political system. Not to put too fine a point on it: While George Soros was spending lavishly to promote democracy abroad, Mr. Scaife was spending lavishly to undermine it at home.
And his achievement is impressive; key figures from the Scaife empire are now senior officials in the Bush administration. (And Mr. Moon's newspaper is now in effect the administration's house organ.) Clearly, scandalmongering works: the public and, less excusably, the legitimate media all too readily assume that where there's smoke there must be fire -- when in reality it's just some angry rich guys who have bought themselves a smoke machine. 
And the media are still amazingly easy to sucker. Just look at the way the press fell for the fraudulent tale of vandalism by departing Clinton staffers, or the more recent spread of the bogus story that Ken Lay stayed at the Clinton White House. 
Regular readers of this column know that not long ago I found myself the target of a minor-league smear campaign. The pattern was typical: right-wing sources insisting that a normal business transaction (in my case consulting for Enron, back when I was a college professor, not an Op-Ed columnist, and in no position to do the company any favors) was somehow corrupt; then legitimate media picking up on the story, assuming that given all the fuss there must be something to the allegations; and no doubt a lingering impression, even though no favors were given or received, that the target must have done something wrong ("Isn't it hypocritical for him to criticize crony capitalism when he himself was on the take?"). Now that I've read Mr. Brock's book I understand what happened.
Slate's Tim Noah, whom I normally agree with, says that Mr. Brock tells us nothing new: "We know . . . that an appallingly well-financed hard right was obsessed with smearing Clinton." But who are "we"? Most people don't know that -- and anyway, he shouldn't speak in the past tense; an appallingly well-financed hard right is still in the business of smearing anyone who disagrees with its agenda, and too many journalists still allow themselves to be used. 
I found "Blinded by the Right" distasteful, but revelatory. So, I suspect, will many others. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); SCANDALS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); ETHICS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%); LOBBYING (75%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); LITERATURE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS); ETHICS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON TIMES; ENRON CORP 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GEORGE SOROS (75%); PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BROCK, DAVID; MOON, SUN MYUNG (REV); SCAIFE, RICHARD MELLON; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: BLINDED BY THE RIGHT (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



758 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Pakistani Group Offers Bleak View of Pakistan's Rights Record 

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, March 28 

 BODY:
A report by a Pakistani human rights organization paints a bleak picture of respect for human dignity here, particularly for women and children. 
 Every day, on average, two women are victims of so-called honor killings, slain by a male relative for having "dishonored" the family name, usually by marrying without permission. The killers are rarely punished, the report by the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan notes. 
 Over all, the report says, women have "almost no rights" and are "bound to follow the wishes of male family members."
Nearly half the country's children are malnourished, physical and sexual abuse of children is "rampant" and young boys are smuggled to the Middle East to serve as jockeys in camel races, the report says.
"There is a lack of governance, and a gap between the rhetoric and actual practices," Asma Jehangir, a lawyer and a member of the executive council of the organization, said today, summarizing the report. Government officials have made repeated promises to improve the plight of women, but they have failed to act, Ms. Jehangir said.
"When so many things are happening in this region, important things like human rights are not put in their proper perspective," she said.
The organization does commend the government of President Pervez Musharraf for getting tougher on Islamic militants who carry out acts of violence.
In the past, these militant groups have had the support of Pakistan's intelligence services. General Musharraf has banned several militant groups and detained hundreds of men suspected of terrorist acts.
But the rights group said the measures "appeared to be motivated by a need to appease powerful forces abroad, rather than a commitment to serve the interests of people within the country." 
Political activity has been restricted by the government of General Musharraf, who seized power in 1999.
The organization's 369-page report, "State of Human Rights in 2001," was issued on Wednesday. Founded in 1986, the group now has offices throughout the country and a Web site, www.hrcp-web.org. 
Expanding the conventional definition of human rights beyond issues like press and religious freedom, elections, and torture and killings by the police, the report looks at social and economic conditions, including health and education.
The mortality rate for mothers is 700 per 100,000 live births, one of the highest in the world. The infant mortality rate is 91 per 100,000 live births, the highest in South Asia. 
The government spends less than 1 percent of the gross national product on health, a smaller percentage than in Haiti, Bangladesh or Ethiopia, according to the report.
Earlier this month, the United States State Department, in its annual human rights report, had a similarly critical assessment of Pakistan. 
The State Department said the judiciary was marked by corruption and inefficiency and was subject to government pressure; the police committed murder, rape and other abuses; "debt slavery persisted"; and women "were subjected to violence, abuse, rape and other forms of degradation."
On the positive side, the State Department concluded that the Pakistani press was able to publish "relatively freely," although there was some self-censorship on important intelligence and military matters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); WOMEN (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); TRENDS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TORTURE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); MALNUTRITION (75%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (75%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); TERRORISM (72%); NUTRITION (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); SMUGGLING (69%); RELIGION (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (64%); INFANT MORTALITY (60%); MURDER (57%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; WOMEN; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; SEX CRIMES; FOOD; DIET AND NUTRITION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

ORGANIZATION: ;STATE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (78%) BONNER, RAYMOND 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BANGLADESH (79%); HAITI (79%); ASIA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (72%) PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



759 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: The True Arab Leaders 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
India's national tumult produced Gandhi and Nehru. America's nurtured Jefferson and Madison.
 So why does the decades-long Arab crisis spawn the likes of Yasir Arafat and Saddam Hussein? 
 At a time when Arab countries face far-reaching choices -- about economics, democracy, Israel, religion -- the region needs most what it lacks most: great leaders. Most of those in power seem to "lead" by staying in the crowd, distracting it when possible, and running around in front of it when necessary. 
The sad reality is that real moral and political leadership -- an effort to articulate a vision and take risks to persuade people to share it -- comes mostly from Osama bin Laden and other Islamists. Their vision may be harmful, frightening and deceitful, but they have one, and struggle to persuade people to follow them. 
I've just returned from Yemen, where a militant Islamist, Abdelmeguid al-Zindani, started his own university (where John Walker Lindh studied). Cassette tapes of his fiery sermons suggest that President Bush conspired with Jews to destroy the World Trade Center.
The government of Yemen has clamped down on Mr. Zindani lately. But Yemen's president and other prominent pro-Western figures have mostly avoided publicly denouncing him for distorting Islam.
In the last few years, one of the few public figures with the courage to take on Mr. Zindani publicly is another crackpot, Sheik Muqbel bin Hadi al-Wadie. Until his death last year, Sheik Muqbel spewed fury at the West and ran what Western spooks said was a training camp for holy warriors.
But Sheik Muqbel also believed that religious figures should stay out of politics. And so he blasted Mr. Zindani for accumulating political influence -- with the result that the public battle of ideas here was between two backyard bullies.
Likewise, terrorist leaders like Mr. bin Laden gain legitimacy by their commitment to a cause, their willingness even to die for it. In contrast, what are most Arab presidents, ensconced in their palaces and limousines, committed to besides power for themselves?
Some Arab thinkers, like Naguib Mahfouz, the Nobel-Prize-winning writer and conscience of Egypt, have had the courage to stand up for their beliefs and against the militants. But Mr. Mahfouz was stabbed for his troubles, and so the educated often seethe in their salons rather than over the airwaves.
I began my career by learning Arabic in Cairo and thought I would focus on the Arab world. Instead, happenstance (a.k.a. editors) diverted me to East Asia, where I worked for most of the last 15 years. In retrospect, I feel lucky: the Arab world remains in the political and economic stasis in which I left it, while Asia has become one of the most vibrant places in the world.
In 1957 Sir Isaiah Berlin wrote a brilliant critique (the only kind he ever wrote) of the Soviet Union, titled: "The Silence in Russian Culture." It is striking how much of what he wrote applies to the Arab world as well, how much of the Middle East's problem arises from a "silence in Arab culture."
The problem is not Islam, for other Muslim nations (like Bangladesh, Pakistan, Malaysia and Indonesia) have vigorous debates and genuine leaders. Part of the responsibility is the West's, for backing its own pet rulers. But ultimately it is Arabs themselves who must break their silence. 
One evening, while chewing qat with a handful of Western-educated Yemenis gathered in a lovely private home in the capital, Sana, I asked them why they did not speak out against crazies like Mr. Zindani.
There was a long silence. Then one man, whom I admire for his intelligence and open-mindedness, spoke with resignation.
"My word against Zindani," he said, "is hopeless."
That defeatism hangs like a pall over the best and brightest of the Arab world. There are hints in the Arab press that 9/11 is beginning to prompt a greater reflectiveness, and it was encouraging that this week's Arab summit meeting included a parallel meeting of nongovernmental organizations. 
As the Iraqi-born scholar Kanan Makiya writes in his book "Cruelty and Silence": "Change for the better will only come in the Arab world when a new generation of young Arabs become incensed at the unacceptably cruel state of their world." 
Let's hope they get incensed soon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); AL-QAEDA (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); HIJACKING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); WRITERS (65%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ISLAM 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; MAKIYA, KANAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); YEMEN (93%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EGYPT (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) MIDDLE EAST; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002 



760 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Argentines Feel Misled By U.S. Banks in Crisis

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, March 27 

 BODY:
As the Argentine economy lurched toward collapse late last year, Maria Carmen de los Santos was worried for her country but felt secure about her own prospects. After all, she had $225,000 in the bank -- not in some fly-by-night local bank, but in dollar accounts in a rock-solid symbol of American capitalism, Citibank.
 Over the last four months, though, Dr. de los Santos, 45, has watched helplessly as all four of her accounts were first frozen and then converted into pesos. They have lost more than two-thirds of their value, standing at less than $75,000. She still cannot withdraw her money, and for that she blames Citibank as much as the Argentine government. 
 "I feel that they deceived, betrayed and lied to me," Dr. de los Santos, an anesthesiologist, said in an interview. "Citibank made all kinds of promises to get me to deposit my money with them, but when the crisis hit, they didn't keep their word. And their promises turned out to be false."
Now she has become a leader of a group of more than 500 Citibank account holders who demonstrate regularly outside the bank's headquarters here. They maintain that Citibank, which has operated in Argentina since 1914, lured them into a financial trap through false advertising and deceptive practices. They are threatening legal action to get their dollars back.
With this nation of 37 million mired in the worst economic crisis in its history, feelings are running especially strong against United States banks and other foreign banks that aggressively expanded operations in the 1990's, promoting their links to home offices in an effort to increase their share of what was then one of the world's most lucrative and least regulated markets.
"Anytime you'd talk to them about not renewing a time deposit, they would always say, 'You can't compare Citibank to some small bank, because you have real security here,' " said Jose Baraschi, 53, whose deposits have fallen in value to less than $60,000 from $180,000. "I thought I had the same security as an American citizen in New York."
Mr. Baraschi's case is typical. He built up his nest egg in 25 years at I.B.M. but was laid off six months ago. He and his wife and their two daughters, 18 and 20, had been living off the interest on the various Citibank accounts, "but now every cent we had is frozen," he said.
Many depositors here, some of whom are United States citizens, also have accounts at Citibank branches in the United States but said Citibank officials had discouraged them from shifting money there, saying they would earn higher interest rates here. To their surprise and exasperation, they now find that the new restrictions here also prevent them from transferring funds between accounts.
The Argentine government also has complaints about foreign banks. Citibank was already under attack as a result of a United States government report accusing it of participating in a money-laundering scheme involving associates of Carlos Saul Menem, a former president of Argentina. Then, earlier this month, a judge here ordered senior executives from five banks, including Citibank and BankBoston, not to leave the country while he investigates accusations of illegal capital flight.
Citibank officials here declined to discuss any aspect of its activities and policies in Argentina. An official at the New York headquarters referred comment to the Latin American office in Miami, where a spokeswoman, Lula Rodriguez, said the privacy rights of depositors precluded any comment on the accusations of account holders here.
Lawyers and bankers here, however, argue that foreign banks, which account for 7 of Argentina's 10 largest banks, are hamstrung by the same restrictions that apply to domestically owned banks. They point out that it was the government, not the banks, that froze accounts and ordered the conversion of dollar deposits into pesos.
Argentine depositors say foreign banks could easily recapitalize their operations here if they wanted to. But local analysts say that with the banking sector facing combined losses of more than $20 billion, such a step is extremely unlikely.
With no signs of a solution, the depositors say they are willing to file suit in the United States to recover their money. But legal experts say their chances are slim, given the way United States banking laws have been rewritten, precisely to avoid such suits.
After Communist governments took power in Cuba and Vietnam, some foreign depositors were able to recover their money after filing suit in the United States. But the banks involved were branches of United States banks and not wholly owned subsidiaries, as is the case for both Citibank N.A. and BankBoston N.A.
In addition, a bank is not required to repay a deposit originally made in a foreign branch if that branch is unable to do so because of a government action, which is what happened in Argentina.
"This statute was specifically designed to protect American banks from claims of this type," Rodgin Cohen, a banking law specialist at the New York law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell, said in a telephone interview.
But depositors here say they intend to argue their case on other grounds. Citibank and other United States banks, they maintain, made guarantees that they knew were impossible to keep, and that constitutes fraud.
"We were led to believe that depositing our money here was the same thing as having it there in the United States," said Marta Cortelezzi, 50, a biochemist and owner of a medical laboratory. "I even closed my account in New York and put all my money in accounts here because I trusted in the assurances I was given and thought it would be easier to have the money here."
If they hope to win, the depositors must cite more than the verbal assurances they say they received from local bank managers. But they say the banks are destroying the written evidence.
"All the documents that can be used as proof of deceit have suddenly been withdrawn from circulation," said Claudio Laborda, leader of a BankBoston depositors' group. "The brochures and pamphlets, posters and billboards, every bit of advertising promising that in a case of crisis the branch here would be backed by the home office -- all of that has been taken away."
A spokeswoman for BankBoston here, Mariela Martinez, said that "for the moment, we are not making any comments" on any aspect of the bank's activities or policies. Phone calls seeking comment from the bank's parent in the United States, FleetBoston Financial Services, were not returned.
The accountholders say they know the odds are against them. But they say they intend to pursue the case as far as possible, if only as a warning to other depositors here and in other countries.
"Depositors need to know that if a bank doesn't keep its word in one part of the world, then its word doesn't mean anything anywhere else," Ms. Cortelezzi said. "Who is to say that the same thing that has happened to us here won't happen someday to depositors in Uruguay, Mexico or Brazil?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators banging pans last month outside a Citibank branch in the financial district of Buenos Aires. They say the bank lured them into a financial trap through false advertising and deceptive practices. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK FAILURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); TRENDS (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNTS; CURRENCY; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; MISLEADING AND DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING; BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); CITIBANK AS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIBANK 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%) ARGENTINA; BUENOS AIRES (ARGENTINA)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



761 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Beverly Sills And the Future Of City Opera 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
It is one of those New York City fairy tales that are all the better for being true: the story of a girl called Bubbles who rose from her middle-class Brooklyn neighborhood, lisp and all, to become an internationally acclaimed coloratura and the reigning queen of the New York City Opera. 
 The blue-blooded Metropolitan Opera across the way at Lincoln Center may have had its Tebaldis and Callases over the years, but there was always a special love affair between New York and Beverly Sills -- and between Ms. Sills and the company that she starred in and later directed, the one that Mayor Fiorello La Guardia called "the people's opera company." 
 But these days, as Ms. Sills, now 72, winds down her tenure as chairwoman of Lincoln Center itself, she can be seen more often at the Met than at the City Opera, entertaining guests in the Lincoln Center box. The opera company board she serves on is the Met's, not City Opera's. And over the last few months, as the center has struggled to make progress on its $1.2 billion redevelopment plan, she has expressed skepticism, and sometimes antipathy, to the plans and dreams of her beloved alma mater -- at times taking the same position as the Met. 
Ms. Sills has opposed a new home for City Opera on the Lincoln Center campus. She has questioned the economic viability of a new home anywhere else -- including the World Trade Center site that City Opera, most significantly, is now investigating. She has even raised doubts about the severity of the long-standing acoustical problems at the New York State Theater that have prompted the company's desire to invest hundreds of millions of dollars in a move.
And Ms. Sills's positions carry weight. When she sided with the Met in opposing a new house at the center, it helped doom the idea. By questioning the maintenance of a house elsewhere, Ms. Sills, a consummate fund-raiser who is widely respected by many wealthy arts patrons, is not making any future fund-raising campaign easier for an endeavor estimated to cost $240 million or more.
Ms. Sills says she has acted on the merits and with real concern for a company she still holds dear. 
"The company means a great deal to me," she said in a recent interview. "I love it. I always will." 
But the divergence between her and City Opera is nonetheless striking, prompting confusion among company proponents and no small degree of private speculation about her motivations. People in the arts who disagree with Ms. Sills's positions search for reasons that might have caused her to distance herself from the company. 
"Her bitterness and hostility towards a new house is baffling," said Robert Wilson, who, aside from being the former chairman of City Opera and its largest benefactor, has pledged $50 million toward a new City Opera house at ground zero or anywhere else outside Lincoln Center that is deemed to make financial sense.
Her friends say there is nothing to be read into Ms. Sills's positions other than dollars-and-cents analysis. "My feeling is, when Beverly says something, she believes it," said Linda LeRoy Janklow, chairwoman of the Lincoln Center Theater. "This is a woman who stays home and makes hamburgers for her family. She doesn't have an identity problem." 
Ms. Sills has said in several interviews that she believed the company's departure from the State Theater would present grave financial risks, not only to it but also to other Lincoln Center constituents.
Along with the cost of building a new house, she said, the company would be saddled with the daunting task of operating one, and booking it for the half-year or more when City Opera is not in season. With union provisions and the general cost of upkeep, a dark theater can cost at least $100,000 a week simply to sit idle. 
And by deserting the State Theater at Lincoln Center, City Opera would leave a similar dilemma for its longtime co-tenant, the New York City Ballet. If City Ballet filled the gap by renting the State Theater to American Ballet Theater, it would pass the problem to the Met, which books the company for eight weeks now. And if City Opera left the center, the common charges apportioned to the other constituents for upkeep of the shared public areas would rise. As chairwoman, Ms. Sills says she has the interests of all the constitutents of Lincoln Center to consider.
"If I appear to be worried about them, I am," Ms. Sills said of City Opera. "The last thing I want them to have is financial difficulty." 
If Ms. Sills's love is still strong, it is expressed quietly. When she stops in at City Opera on the spur of the moment, she said, most people do not know of her presence because she sits in the back row.
She said she consciously scaled down her involvement so she would not upstage her successors. "Because I have a high profile, I thought maybe it would be better if I kept my distance," she said, adding that Christopher Keene, who took over for her as general director of City Opera in 1989, requested that she step down from the board so that he would not operate in her shadow. 
The Met was glad to have her. And the gap with City Opera seems to have grown.
If there is one cardinal grievance that has gnawed at the company for 35 years, it has been the acoustics at the State Theater, which were designed to muffle the footfalls of the City Ballet dancers. Nobody expressed the consternation better than Ms. Sills long ago. 
In 1982, when the first of several sound adjustments were made at the theater, she told The New York Times: "I can remember singing 'Lucia di Lammermoor' on this stage. The orchestra sound was so inaudible in certain places that I begged people in the wings to hum a few notes to me to make sure I was in the right key."
In her 1987 autobiography, "Beverly," she wrote: "The New York State Theater's most serious problem was its acoustics, which were just plain lousy compared to any of the world's great opera houses. From the day I started running the company, my first priority was to survive; my second was to improve the theater's acoustics."
Ms. Sills's opinion has changed markedly. In recent interviews, she has repeatedly described the State Theater as perfectly adequate for opera singers and said attempts to fix the acoustics were what mucked them up in the first place. Amplification, for one, angered some opera buffs, at least at first.
"Carreras did debut with me on that stage and Placido and I sang God knows how many operas together there," she said, speaking of Jose Carreras and Placido Domingo. "I don't have any problem hearing Lauren Flanigan," she added, referring to one of the company's reigning sopranos.
But if her view of the acoustics has changed, it is not nearly as striking as the change in her relationship with the Met.
When Ms. Sills was performing with City Opera, she -- like all opera singers -- wanted to sing at the Met. But Sir Rudolf Bing, then general director, had a predilection for Europeans and looked down on City Opera. 
"After 'Manon,' I expected Rudolf Bing to invite me to sing next door at the Met, but that didn't happen," Ms. Sills wrote in her autobiography, speaking of her lead performance in Puccini's "Manon Lescaut" in 1968. 
She added later: "I was continually approached by reporters who wanted to do interviews on the subject of 'poor little Bubbles' from Brooklyn being blackballed by an Austrian-born autocrat. I declined scores of such requests."
When Ms. Sills finally did make her Met debut in 1972 -- after Mr. Bing had retired and at the invitation of his successor, Goeran Gentele -- she was 46. "I think the audience and I felt that a longstanding wrong had been righted," she wrote in her book. "When the final curtain came down, the audience gave me an 18-minute solo ovation. It was as if they and I had both showed the Met something."
She added later: "The Met debut was exciting only because the kid from Brooklyn had finally made good. Every dog has its day and I'd had mine."
But in her autobiography, Ms. Sills hints at another reason it may have been exciting. She described a club based on a common need that was made up of her and her friend Arlene Francis: "We shared the same terrible personality trait: neither of us could stand it if everybody didn't love us."
In a recent interview, though, Ms. Sills said she was over the lengthy snub and that she did not need the Met to give her a sense of importance or belonging. "Glamour and glitz I really don't need," she said. "I did that already."
She joined the Met's board, Ms. Sills said, because she missed being affiliated with an opera house. She more obviously shows up at the Met, she said, because she uses the Lincoln Center box there to entertain special patrons and potential contributors. Though her opposition to a new City Opera house at Lincoln Center supported a position first taken forcefully by the Met, she said: "I don't side with anybody; I don't have to. Every single opinion I've offered has been an honest one."
Ms. Sills, who said she would retire as chairwoman after the new president of Lincoln Center steps into the job, described herself as very satisfied with the tenure of Paul Kellogg, City Opera's general and artistic director. "He's done incredible things," she said. "Nobody wants him to have what he wants more than I do."
With one exception.
She says she believes the State Theater is where the company belongs. "I'd prefer to have them stay on campus," she said. "It would please me to know they have a home here forever."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about Beverly Sills's disagreement with the New York City Opera about a new home for the company misidentified the opera in which she expected her lead performance in 1968 to result in an invitation to sing with the Metropolitan Opera. It was "Manon" by Massenet, not "Manon Lescaut" by Puccini. (Her Met debut did not occur until 1972.)
An article on Saturday about Beverly Sills's disagreement with the New York City Opera on a new home for the company misidentified the opera in which she expected her lead performance in 1968 to result in an invitation to sing with the Metropolitan Opera. It was "Manon" by Massenet, not "Manon Lescaut" by Puccini. A correction in this space yesterday misstated the year of Ms. Sills's Metropolitan debut. It was 1975, not 1972.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Beverly Sills, who opposes opening a new home for City Opera at Lincoln Center and questions a move to another site. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CELEBRITIES (70%) OPERA 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%) NEW YORK CITY OPERA; METROPOLITAN OPERA; LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN; SILLS, BEVERLY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



762 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Plastic Recycling Is a Work in Progress 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
At first glance, plastics recycling looks like an economic and environmental success story.
 Consider, for example, that about 25 percent of the polyethylene fiber in Tyvek -- a DuPont product used in envelopes, disposable medical suits and insulation -- comes from jugs that once held milk or water. Fleece garments are increasingly made of old soda bottles. "Plastic lumber," made in part from milk jugs, increasingly substitutes for wood in decking and outdoor furniture, and the Plastic Lumber Trade Association is testing the product for rot-resistant bridges. 
 EvCo Research, an Atlanta company, is using recycled beverage bottles to make water-repellent coatings on boxes for shipping fruits and meats. The TEWA Technology Corporation of Albuquerque is using shredded plastic in asphalt. 
Yet few companies have achieved the economies of scale that could make recycling pay.
Manufacturers say they cannot get a stream of high-quality material at a reasonable price. Recycling companies say they cannot guarantee such a stream until sales grow robust enough to drive down costs.
"It's a chicken-and-egg situation," said Gil Friend, president of Natural Logic, an environmental consulting firm in Berkeley, Calif.
Two years ago, environmentalists, manufacturers and recyclers founded Business and Environmentalists in an Alliance for Recycling -- known as BEAR -- to jump-start plastics recycling. So far, it has only compiled data.
"We had a high objective, finding a way to recycle 80 percent of plastics," said the manager of the alliance, Edward T. Boisson, an environmental consultant in Pittsboro, N.C. "We didn't get there."
The results of the impasse are easy to spot. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, nearly 95 percent of the 24.2 million tons of plastic waste generated each year goes unreclaimed. Plastics already take up a disproportionate amount of landfill space, and the glut is likely to worsen: studies show that as many as 500 million computers will be discarded over the next five years.
"Billions of pounds of plastics will not be dealt with in an environmentally benign way," said Ted Smith, executive director of the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition, an environmental group in San Jose, Calif.
Manufacturers acknowledge the problem. Beverage companies, although opposed to the spread of bills mandating return deposits on bottles beyond the 10 states that have such laws, are setting up their own retrieval programs. On Jan. 8, carpet manufacturers, environmental advocates and regulators signed the National Carpet Recycling Agreement, to promote carpet recycling.
Electronics companies have started "take back" programs to collect discarded computers, printers and such. Similar programs are mandatory in much of Europe. Many companies are designing products to be easily disassembled, and stamping components with codes signifying their chemical composition.
But so far, few manufacturers are funneling all of their used plastics back into their products. PepsiCo experimented with a recycled bottle in the early 1990's, but "the economics were just not there," a spokesman recalled. Honeywell International tried making new fibers from old carpets; it "didn't pan out," a spokesman said, and Honeywell sold the business last year.
DuPont has reclaimed 72 million pounds of carpet in the last 10 years -- enough to win it awards, but a tiny fraction of the four billion pounds of carpet that Mark C. Ryan, manager of environmental initiatives for Dupont Commercial Flooring, said wound up in landfills each year.
"Carpet recycling hasn't grown as fast as people expected, because the economics are fragile," he said.
Economics are not the only problem. The customers of Collins & Aikman Floor Coverings, a carpet manufacturer in Dalton, Ga., provide an inexpensive stream of used recyclable carpets. Still, some 40 percent of the fibers in Collins carpets are virgin plastic -- and will be, until Collins is certain that its suppliers have perfected their recycling processes. Collins is a unit of Quad-C.
"We can't take a chance of defects affecting quality," Lee H. Schilling, a senior vice president, said.
That concern is even more prevalent in the electronics industry. Each month, Hewlett-Packard ships 200,000 pounds of plastics from discarded computers and printers to recyclers. But it is turned into carpet backing and fuel pellets. Hewlett says the old plastics are a melange unsuitable for new products.
"It would only make sense if we could make all of our products out of one uniform batch of recycled plastics," said Renee St. Denis, who, as Hewlett's end-of-life process manager, grapples with such issues.
To make matters worse, even recycling's most ardent supporters often squabble among themselves. Beverage companies detest bottle bills; other users of recycled plastics want them passed. Environmental advocates want beverage companies to recycle old bottles into new ones, while carpet companies want the old bottles for themselves.
Industry truces would not solve recycling's volatile economics. Virgin plastics are made from oil, recycled plastics from trash, so logic would suggest that recycled materials would be cheaper. But it is costly to collect, transport, sort and clean discarded plastics. And every time oil prices fall -- and they fell by more than one-third last year -- recycled plastic loses value.
"Recycled plastics are a commodity, and commodity prices are low," said Richard McCombs, chief operating officer of MBA Polymers, a company in Richmond, Calif., with a patented technology for separating plastics from electronics devices.
Moreover, items made of recycled plastics, while more durable, are expensive. EvCo's plastic coating runs about $2.50 a pound, compared with about 50 cents a pound for wax. The upfront cost of plastic decking can be twice that of wood. TEWA's asphalt is more expensive than asphalt made of rock and sand.
The manufacturers of these products say that less of their product is required by weight, and that their products perform better. But customers are not easy to convince.
"We're bottlenecked by end users who are resistant to change," said Len Cox, who handles TEWA's marketing. Alan E. Robbins, president of the plastic lumber association, echoed that complaint. "The folks who make wood are good at parrying our claims," he said.
Recyclers who do win customers over may still be stymied by the problem of getting waste plastic.
Most bottles are made of "pure" plastics -- polyethylene terephthalate, or PET, for soda bottles, and high-density polyethylene for milk bottles -- that are easily turned into carpets, plastic lumber or bottles.
Some 75 percent of the bottles the Coca-Cola Company uses in North America have 10 percent recycled content, and the company said it planned for all of its bottles to have recycled content by 2005. And Pepsi, despite its past disappointments with recycling, said last month that it, too, aimed to have 10 percent recylced content in all bottles by 2005.
But beverage companies have easy access to their old bottles. Coca-Cola collected discarded bottles at a Nascar event in Atlanta in November and at the Winter Olympic Games in Salt Lake City. Coke sent the Nascar plastic to a recycler; it will use the Olympics plastic itself.
But experts say that only bottle bills can give small companies access to the four billion PET bottles that end up on roadsides or in landfills each year. "The bottles are there, but getting them is a problem," said John G. Kokoszka, EvCo's vice president for operations.
The problems are even greater for those who want to reuse plastics from durable goods like computers. They contain blends of plastics, metals, glues and additives that are hard to separate. And, discarded bottles are usually a few months old. Discarded durables vary in age by decades, and can include plastics that are no longer used.
Some companies anticipated that problem. In the 1990's, I.B.M. began using the same plastic in several products, making them easier to recycle. Three years ago I.B.M. introduced the IntelliStation E Pro, a computer with plastic parts made almost entirely of recycled resins.
"We wanted to demonstrate that using recycled plastics was viable," said Wayne Balta, I.B.M.'s vice president for corporate environmental affairs. Mr. Balta said that I.B.M.'s goal was to eventually use recycled resins in most products.
Those goals may yet be attainable. Recycling companies are already experimenting with optical recognition technology and electric charges to separate plastics, and with solvents that remove glues and labels.
"Technology is no longer the major barrier to recycling," said Michael M. Fisher, director of technology for the American Plastics Council. "People have to figure a way around the collection problems."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An old carpet is separated at the DuPont Carpet Reclamation Center in Calhoun, Ga. DuPont has reclaimed 72 million pounds of carpet in the last 10 years, only a tiny fraction of what winds up in landfills. (DuPont); Javier Arbarca checks on plastic being recycled at MBA Polymers in Richmond, Calif. "Recycled plastics are a commodity, and commodity prices are low," said Richard McCombs, MBA's chief operating officer. (Thor Swift for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (95%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS MFG (90%); PLASTICS (90%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (90%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); RENEWABLE PLASTICS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRONICS RECYCLING (78%); LANDFILLS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLYETHYLENE (78%); CARPET & RUG MILLS (78%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); BEVERAGE MFG (76%); ELECTRONICS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (75%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); FLOORING (60%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; PLASTICS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LANDFILL 

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (78%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



763 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Promotion of Legal Crops Fails to Stem Colombia's Coca 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 29 

 BODY:
The State Department has concluded that its strategy to persuade peasant farmers in Colombia to replace their coca fields with legal crops is failing, administration officials said today.
 The alternative development strategy, for which Congress has allocated more than $50 million, has suffered from a lack of security in the coca-growing regions, a lack of follow-up by the Colombian government, and the difficulty of finding crops that can thrive in areas with poor soil, the officials said. 
 The United States has invested nearly $2 billion since 2000 to support the country's armed forces, fumigate drug crops and provide economic options to farmers in Colombia and its neighbors. The American ambassador to Colombia, Anne Patterson, ordered a review of the program late last year. 
"They have concluded that we need to do stuff differently," said a senior State Department official. Asked if that meant rethinking the entire approach, the official replied, "Absolutely."
The State Department review of the program, which was first reported Friday in The Los Angeles Times, concluded that many farmers had no intention of destroying their crops. The federal government estimated this month that coca cultivation in Colombia surged by nearly 25 percent last year, to 419,000 acres, despite fumigation, new military aid and the crop substitution campaign.
The crop substitution effort has been focused in the hardscrabble southern provinces of Putumayo and Caqueta, where about 40,000 peasant growers signed an eradication pact in return for government aid.
Under the program, Colombia is to provide seed for alternative crops or other immediate aid, and farmers are obliged to eradicate their coca fields by July. The United States Agency for International Development has pledged to provide incentives, training and money for infrastructure projects.
The General Accounting Office reported last month that the strategy "faces serious obstacles." Among them, it cited a weak Colombian development agency with uncertain financing and the lack of a mechanism to ensure farmers' compliance.
Mark Schneider, the development agency's chief for Latin America in the Clinton administration, said the strategy was doomed unless the Colombian government could establish a credible presence and provide security in a region that is overrun by leftist rebels and drug traffickers.
Karen Hasbert, the development agency's deputy assistant administrator for Latin America, said it was too early to judge whether the alternative development strategy had failed. The program has only been in effect since last May, she said, and "it's impossible to create an alternative economy" in that time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); COCAINE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



764 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Economy's Rock: Homes, Homes, Homes 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
Amid the shaky economy of the last couple of years, housing has emerged as the central pillar of support. The market for housing has become less volatile and less prone to oversupply than before; it has also become the Federal Reserve's main lever for reviving the economy.
 "Housing has been a key stabilizer," said Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Salomon Smith Barney. 
 From the very beginning of the downturn last year, the housing market has been strong. And that remains true today. In February, sales of new homes grew 5.3 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 875,000, thanks to good weather and low mortgage rates. Sales of existing homes in February fell only slightly from the record annual pace in January of 6.05 million. 
Housing prices have been increasing faster than general inflation for several years, and they have accelerated in recent months to their fastest real rate of gain in decades.
All this has bolstered consumer spending and helped salve the wounds that the falling stock market inflicted on households.
In trying to explain the resilience of the housing market in the face of rising unemployment, shrinking stock portfolios and a soft economy, economists start with the Federal Reserve. The Fed's sharp cuts in short-term interest rates supported the demand for housing by helping to push mortgage rates down further.
Mortgage rates had already started to fall in late 2000. "The Fed began cutting interest rates aggressively back in January of 2001," said S. Lawrence Yun, a senior economist at the National Association of Realtors in Washington. "The long-term rates pretty much anticipated that move. By that time, mortgage rates had already hit 7 percent."
With help from the Fed all through 2001, rates moved even lower for a time. "Last year mortgage rates were the second lowest on record," Dr. Yun said. According to his calculations, the additional drop in mortgage rates meant that three million more households could afford to pay a mortgage on a new home.
"That's a big cushion" for the housing market, he said, enough to largely allay the effects of more than a million job losses last year.
At the Fed, top officials were clearly aware of the importance of the housing market in countering Wall Street's fall. Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, told monetary policy experts at a forum in Jackson Hole, Wyo., last summer: "Movements in the prices of some other assets in the economy -- changes in house prices, for example -- have been steadier, less dramatic, but perhaps no less significant."
The strong housing sector supported the economy in two ways. First, it added $2 trillion to $3 trillion to homeowners' wealth, according to calculations by Karl E. Case, a professor of economics at Wellesley College and a co-author of "Comparing Wealth Effects: The Stock Market Versus the Housing Market," with John M. Quigley of the University of California at Berkeley and Robert J. Shiller of Yale University. This greater wealth from their real estate holdings encouraged consumers to spend more, Professor Case said.
Second, the rise in housing wealth -- combined with low interest rates -- made last year an especially tempting time to refinance a mortgage and arrange for home-equity loans and lines of credit, which are often priced these days as low as the prime rate.
"People took advantage of the lower rates not just to lower their debt service but to take out equity to support a lifestyle," Mr. DiClemente said.
Was taking on more debt dangerous in the midst of record levels of outstanding consumer credit? Not according to Mr. DiClemente. The debt that is reflected in home equity loans, he said, "is pitted against the most durable type of asset that people have."
As it turned out, the housing market responded so well to the lower rates that it became the main area of the economy where the Fed's actions really gained traction last year. By contrast, business investment continued to shrink despite the decline in interest rates because companies found themselves with so much excess capacity that it made little sense to try to expand.
"The only place where the Fed seems to have had a major impact is in the housing sector," said Robert E. Litan, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution. And other traditional channels for the effects of monetary policy, like exports and the stock market, did not work much at all. 
In the past, the housing market's strong reaction to changes in interest rates sometimes led to nasty surprises, usually a glut followed by a crash after rates increased or credit dried up. That happened as recently as the late 1980's and the early 1990's. But despite its healthy response to the Fed's rate cuts, the housing market is not as volatile as it once was, economists now say.
"Go back to the 1980's and you can see a case study of excess in real estate," Mr. DiClemente said. "In that case we had major adjustments that held consumers and business back for years."
This time appears to be different, said Dennis R. Capozza, a professor of real estate finance at the University of Michigan. "The experience of the late 80's and early 90's was not wasted on people," he said. "Builders have not responded as aggressively as they have in the past. There hasn't been the oversupply that is typical in this kind of cycle."
Dr. Yun agreed. "The market is much better at anticipating whether or not they are supplying too much," he said.
In addition to lessons of the past, changes in regulations and real estate finance have helped the housing market to achieve greater stability. Among those were the easing of restrictions on the rates banks could pay on deposits and the introduction of flexible mortgage rates to fit consumers' needs.
The securitization of mortgages through the last few decades, which led to bundles of mortgages being traded on financial markets, also made credit for housing easier to attain. These changes have "gradually taken away a major element of cyclicality," in the economy, Mr. DiClemente said.
Even before these changes, the housing market was not like other markets when it came to handling transitory drops in demand.
"The housing market behaves a little differently from other markets on the downside," Professor Case said. "When most markets feel a fall in demand, price falls. The housing market doesn't behave that way, in the short run anyway, because sellers hold out. People won't sell."
Professor Case added that surveys of homeowners show that those who are selling their houses believe they can ride out troubled times in the economy. "If people view it as temporary," he explained, "they're not going to cut their asking prices."
A long-term trend has also been supporting the demand for housing: the growing number of households.
"Average household size has been falling for some time," Professor Capozza said. "The kids move out and get their own apartments. Young college students and new workers, instead of joining up with other similar people and sharing a house, will just get their own when their incomes will support it."
That is contrary to recent anecdotal evidence of hordes of laid-off technology workers moving back in with their parents rather than buying their own homes.
"You can infer what's going on in household formation by the fact that people keep buying the darn things," said Edward F. McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs. 
Most economists expect the housing market to stay strong in the coming year, though not as buoyant as in the last five years. Professor Rosen said that rising interest rates, in expectation of credit-tightening by the Fed, could slow the pace of increase in home prices. He expects the level of housing construction and new-home sales to drop about 15 percent by the end of the year and annual gains in house prices to moderate from about 7 percent to roughly 4 percent.
Virtually no one, however, calls the current housing market a bubble, in part because there is very little of the excess supply of unsold homes so common in past economic recessions.
"The rise in housing prices," Mr. DiClemente said, "just pales in terms of what a real housing bubble looks like."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mimi Weisinger, the listing broker for Friedberg Properties in Cresskill, N.J., at a house in Tenafly, N.J., listed at $1.8 million. Housing prices accelerated in recent months to their fastest real rate of gain in decades. (Don Standing for The New York Times)(pg. C5); The housing market has remained strong and resilient. Arthur Tassaro of Friedberg Properties shows a client and her daughter a house for sale in Haworth, N.J., listed for $635,000. (Don Standing for The New York Times)(pg. C1) ChartInterest Rates Have Fallen . . .Graph tracks average 30-year mortgage interest rate from 1999-2001 Raising Home Prices . . .Graph tracks median existing home price from 1999-2001 At a More Rapid RateGraph tracks year-over-year change in home prices; 3-month moving average from 1999-2001.(Source: National Association of Realtors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); EXISTING HOME SALES (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) HOUSING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; MORTGAGES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



765 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Patching New Jersey's Budget 

 BODY:
Much like New York's governor, George Pataki, whose proposed budget this year was for a "monsoon," not a mere rainy day, Gov. James McGreevey of New Jersey has used every trick in the book to make his first statewide budget balance. In particular, both governors are using one-time windfalls to fill their financial gaps. In general, it is very bad budgeting to use one-time revenues to pay for expenses that occur every year. But both governors are arguing that because last year was no ordinary year, it required extraordinary remedies. 
 Mr. McGreevey's budget attempts to cope with the bad hand he was dealt on taking over in January. A state that depends heavily on Wall Street was hit not only with the recession but with the devastation on Sept. 11 as well. Moreover, the previous governors and the former legislature went on a last-minute spending spree before they departed their offices. Governor McGreevey's $23.6 billion budget should cut back considerably and ward off what he says is a $5 billion shortfall. 
 Perhaps the most promising aspect of the McGreevey budget is its effort to close loopholes for corporations in the state. He makes the point that 30 of the state's top 50 corporations paid $200 or less in state taxes last year while a few adjustments in the corporate tax code could add $500 million a year to the state's revenues. Some industry leaders in New Jersey howled that jobs would move out of the state as a result of such changes, but it would be hard to find a place nearby where corporations can exist tax-free.
Mr. McGreevey also deferred a plan to increase property tax rebates and canceled those rebates for families with incomes over $200,000, sensible moves that could save the state millions. And he added 50 cents in cigarette taxes, which could increase the state's income by $200 million.
There are still reasons for concern about Mr. McGreevey's budget proposal. He would add $1.1 billion to the state's debt, borrowing against New Jersey's share of the tobacco settlement. And his cutting of state aid to localities would shift more of the tax burden to property owners, even though the state already has the highest property taxes per capita in the nation. But reasonable people will accept his argument that this is an emergency budget, and that the state should allow some financial shortcuts that would be unacceptable in ordinary times. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TAX RELIEF (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (66%); CORPORATE TAX (65%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (62%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



766 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Worst Drivers In New York Will Pay More 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
New York state insurance regulators yesterday approved a 19.5 percent rise in auto insurance premiums for people with the worst driving records, but insurance executives said the increase was far less than what was needed.
 The insurers had requested an increase of nearly 80 percent, saying their losses were soaring, mainly because of a steep increase in fraudulent claims. 
 The increase applies to about 350,000 of New York's estimated 8.6 million drivers. But several insurers had increased their rates for most of their customers in New York by an average of 10 to 15 percent around the end of last year, and industry experts said the insurers were likely to ask regulators for additional increases in the coming months. 
New York political leaders look with horror across the Hudson River at New Jersey, for years the most expensive state in the country for auto insurance. Now, industry experts say, New York is threatening to overtake its neighboring state, where premium costs have been a major political issue. Winning that dubious distinction alone would be a stigma for the administration of Gov. George E. Pataki.
Mr. Pataki is seeking re-election this year, and the rising auto insurance costs pose a significant political problem. His administration has to keep premium costs down so as not to offend millions of voters. But the auto insurers say they will either have to raise their prices or consider withdrawing from New York, as they are already doing in New Jersey. 
In New Jersey, several insurers, including State Farm, the biggest auto insurer in the state, say they are pulling out because political leaders will not permit them to raise prices enough to earn profits.
J. Robert Hunter, the director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America, said that while fraudulent claims had indeed become a serious problem in New York, the general premium increases seemed "slightly high." He said the request for an increase of 80 percent for drivers with poor records was "incredibly high." Mr. Hunter, a former insurance commissioner in Texas, said that a general increase of 8 to 10 percent was probably sufficient.
He said the administrators of state-organized programs around the country for drivers with poor records "tend to overreach" when requesting price increases. "They ask for 80 percent when 20 percent or 25 percent would do," he said.
The number of drivers in what is known as the assigned risk plan for those with poor records has doubled in two years to the present 350,000 drivers. They pay roughly 50 percent more for their coverage than most drivers, industry experts said. Most drivers in New York State pay about $1,000 a year, but coverage can be much more expensive in New York City. And drivers in the city and in other urban areas account for a disproportionate share of those in the assigned risk plan.
The number of drivers in the plan has been growing because insurers, unable to increase prices as much as they say is necessary, have been tightening their rules for coverage to include only the most profitable customers. Until recently, insurers were willing to sell policies to people with perhaps one or two small accidents. Now they are refusing them coverage, forcing those drivers into the assigned risk plan.
The insurers also want to see prices increased in the assigned risk plan because, under state law, they share the cost of the coverage among themselves. If the plan loses money, as it has for the last few years, the insurers lose money.
Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, said that insurers push customers into the assigned risk plan, expecting that its higher rates will cover higher losses from the more risky drivers.
But these days, the plan is paying out far more than it is collecting. So the insurers were hoping for more than the 19.5 percent increase approved by the superintendent of insurance, Gregory V. Serio.
Joseph Termini Jr., who is in charge of government affairs in New York for the National Association of Independent Insurers, said, "We're disappointed." But he added: "The alternative of not getting any rate increase would have been disastrous."
The growing number of drivers covered under the plan intensifies the political pressure on the Pataki administration. Hoping to reduce those numbers, the insurance superintendent is increasing the size of the plan's administrative board to 27 members from 15. Until now, insurers have had a one-vote majority over agents on the board. Now they will be equal in number and the swing vote will go to a consumer advocate, who is yet to be named. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); APPROVALS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); CITIES (61%) AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%)

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



767 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Home Insurers Frown on Many Dogs 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
The big Rottweiler was an awesome sight: glistening black fur, 135 pounds of muscle and nearly 6 feet tall when it rose up on its hind legs. Strangers scattered when they saw it coming.
 But Carleton Giles and his wife, Christina, always kept the dog, Cezanne, on a leash, and neighbors on their quiet street in Columbia, S.C., say their pet was invariably gentle and even cuddly. 
 "He's a big baby," said Woody Freeman, who lives next door to the Gileses. "The big joke was the worst he could do, as big as he was, would be to step on your foot while you were playing with him. He is a very friendly dog." 
But Nationwide, which for seven years has sold the Gileses insurance on their home and two cars, was taking no chances. It considers Rottweilers, Dobermans, pit bulls, Presa Canarios, chows and wolf hybrids dangerous, and simply refuses to insure homes where they are kept. Some other insurers also have blacklists of breeds, including Akitas and huskies, which they compile on the basis of both reputation and dog-attack statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Without the insurance, it is almost impossible to get or keep a mortgage.
The danger of big, powerful and often aggressive dogs has been underscored by the fatal mauling of a San Francisco woman in the doorway of her apartment by a neighboring couple's 120-pound Presa Canario. Just last week, one of the dog's owners was convicted of murder, the other of involuntary manslaughter. The day before, a Wisconsin couple were charged with homicide because their six Rottweilers had killed a 10-year-old girl who was playing in their home with their daughter.
But insurers began focusing on the problem of dangerous dogs long ago. Since the mid-1990's, with the growing popularity of aggressive breeds as a result of security concerns, dog attacks have become the biggest single cause of home policy claims, with costs running to more than $300 million a year, said Robert P. Hartwig, chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group.
State Farm, Allstate and many other insurers do not have blacklists. Instead, their agents make a judgment call on each dog, regardless of breed, as Nationwide and some other insurers do in cases of breeds that are not on their lists. 
"If the dog is growling or aggressive, that's pretty much a tip-off that you could have a problem dog," said Dan Hattaway, a specialist on home insurance at State Farm.
Mr. Hattaway said State Farm did not think blacklisting of breeds was an effective way to screen for danger. "Simply by naming a breed," he said, "people are screening out a fair percentage of good dogs. Just because someone is a Rottweiler fancier doesn't mean they have a dangerous or aggressive dog."
When Nationwide discovered the Gileses' Rottweiler, during a visit to check possible damage to their roof, it issued an ultimatum: get rid of the dog or give up coverage on the three-bedroom ranch-style home.
For the Gileses, the choice was heartbreaking. They considered Cezanne a part of the family, a big brother and playmate for their 4-year-old daughter, Courtney.
For Nationwide, it was a straightforward business decision.
"We believe these breeds are capable of inflicting damage or causing a loss that is far outside the norm," said Scott Mallasee, a specialist in home insurance at Nationwide.
J. Robert Hunter, director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America, said it made sense for insurance companies to deny coverage because of a dangerous dog. "If you had a dynamite factory in your basement, it would be silly for an insurance company to sell you coverage," Mr. Hunter said. "Likewise if you have a dog that is biting everybody or exhibiting menacing behavior."
But he and others said they objected to denial of coverage on the basis of breed alone. 
"Dogs, like people," Mr. Hunter said, "have a wide range of behavioral patterns and personalities."
Sometimes, veterinarians say, the most troublesome dogs are those that might be least suspected. 
"The most vicious dogs I see are Chihuahuas," said Dr. Kevin Blaes, chief of staff at Banfield, the Pet Hospital of Columbia. "They don't do a lot of damage, but some of them just keep gnawing and biting. And Dalmatians are becoming very aggressive. You don't expect that."
Unlikely though it may seem, tiny dogs sometimes kill. A little over a year ago, for example, a Pomeranian, one of the smallest breeds, jumped onto a bed and killed an infant in a home near Los Angeles. 
At Nationwide, Mr. Mallasee defended his company's policy of discriminating by breed.
"We just don't have the luxury of getting to know the dog to the point where we would believe that this dog does not pose the risk that the breed would indicate," he said.
Nationwide and some other companies also refuse to sell or renew coverage when a dog has attacked someone. But State Farm, the largest insurer of homes, and Allstate, the second-largest, say they will consider selling or continuing coverage even after a dog bite.
"We have to look at the situation," said Michael Trevino, a spokesman for Allstate. "Is the dog really vicious? Is he going to bite again? Or was it just an accident?"
Even at companies that do not blacklist, though, individual agents are often wary. Mr. Giles, a graphics designer, said he had tried to change insurance companies. But because of his big dog, he said, he could not find an agent who would sell him coverage. One who offered coverage, he said, wanted to triple his premium.
Finally he gave Cezanne to Sarah Elkin, a local dog groomer. She agreed that if the Gileses could ever find coverage that would include Cezanne, she would give him back. She lives out in the country in a home without a mortgage. She has no insurance on the house. So the views of the insurance companies are of no concern to her.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carleton and Christina Giles and their 4-year-old daughter, Courtney, pay a visit to Cezanne, a Rottweiler they had to give up at the insistence of their insurer, which blacklists certain breeds of dog. (Travis Bell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (94%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); BITES & STINGS (78%); MAMMALS (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (74%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (71%); MURDER (70%); HOMICIDE (69%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); MANSLAUGHTER (69%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (66%); INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (64%) DOGS; ROTTWEILERS (DOGS); ASSAULTS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; HOUSING; INSURANCE 

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (81%); ALLSTATE CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%) ;NATIONWIDE INSURANCE 

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (81%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; GILES, CARLETON; GILES, CHRISTINA; WHIPPLE, DIANE; HARTWIG, ROBERT P 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (72%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); WISCONSIN

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



768 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: February Computer Chip Sales Off 35% 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif., March 29 

 BODY:
Worldwide sales of computer chips fell 35 percent in February, declining at the slowest pace since June as chip makers outside Japan got more orders from makers of mobile phones and digital cameras, an industry group said. 
 Sales fell to $10.01 billion from $15.48 billion in February 2001 and were unchanged from the previous month, the group said. 
In January, computer chip sales fell 40 percent, to $10 billion. 
 Demand in the second quarter will be "slightly stronger," and the second half will see "accelerating growth," according to the group, the Semiconductor Industry Association of San Jose.
"Strong consumer spending for mobile phones, DVD's and digital cameras continued to move chip sales slightly upward," the association's president, George Scalise, said in the report. "Although business investment has yet to pick up, consumer confidence and inventory replenishing continue to rise, driving the early stages of the overall recovery." 
Revenue from dynamic random access memory chips, the main memory in personal computers, rose almost 24 percent in February from January because prices increased, Mr. Scalise said. 
Sales in North and South America rose 2 percent in February from January, while sales in Asia- Pacific excluding Japan increased 0.3 percent, the association said. Europe had a 1.5 percent month-on-month drop, and Japan's sales fell 1.2 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (95%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); ELECTRONICS (91%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); MEMORY CHIPS (78%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); SEMICONDUCTORS (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (67%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; SALES 

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (83%) SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (69%); ASIA (58%); SOUTH AMERICA (51%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



769 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Argentines Feel Misled By Foreign Banks in Crisis
With Argentina mired in the worst economic crisis in its history, feelings are running strong against United States banks and other foreign banks that aggressively expanded in the 1990's. Many residents said they had deposited money into the foreign banks, believing it would be safe from Argentina's economic unrest.
 Now those depositors -- saying they have been deceived, cheated and lied to -- are threatening legal action. Their accounts have been converted into pesos and have lost more than two-thirds of their value. For their part, bankers say they have been hamstrung by government regulations. Page C3. 

Personal Spending and Income Rise
Two government reports offered additional evidence that the economy was gathering momentum. Consumer spending increased 0.6 percent in February, the Commerce Department said. In addition, personal income rose at its fastest pace since December 2000, also increasing 0.6 percent in February. Both figures surpassed the expectations of analysts. C3.

Plastics Recycling Loses Steam
The plastics recycling industry is caught in a Catch-22. Manufacturers that want to use recycled plastics say they cannot get enough high-quality material at a reasonable price. But companies that recycle the plastic say they cannot guarantee such a stream until sales grow enough to drive down costs. C2.

Study Faults Oil Drilling in Refuge
A federal study said that drilling in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge could harm wildlife in the 19-million acre refuge. The study undercuts the Bush administration's efforts to allow drilling in the refuge; its release comes just days before the Senate is scheduled to begin debate on the matter. A12.

Car Insurance Rises in New York
New York state regulators have approved a 19.5 percent increase in premiums for auto insurance for people with the worst driving records. The increase affects about 350,000 of the state's 8.6 million drivers. B1.

Visa Ordered to Release Records
A federal judge has ordered Visa to turn over information on offshore accounts held by Americans suspected of tax evasion. The order is part of a federal investigation of Americans who hide their incomes in offshore banks and live off credit cards in the United States. C2.

Japanese Stocks Fall as Year Ends
Japanese stocks fell sharply on the last day of trading for Japan's fiscal year. The Nikkei index fell 308.17 points, to 11,024.94, and finished the fiscal year down 15.2 percent. Most markets around the world were closed and will reopen on Monday. C3.

Two large Japanese banks said they would cut the interest rate they pay on savings accounts to 0.001 percent, one-twentieth of the already tiny 0.02 percent they pay now. For the banks, taking in deposits has become less attractive; with the country in a recession, there is little demand for loans. C3.

Kmart's Sales Fell After Court Filing
Providing the first financial details since filing for bankruptcy in January, Kmart said that it had lost $753 million in the five weeks after it sought protection. While its sales dropped 11 percent in February, sales at a rival, Wal-Mart, increased 10 percent. C3.

Baker Hughes Faces Investigations
Baker Hughes, the oil field services company, said the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department were investigating accusations of a kickback involving a contract in Nigeria. C5.

Goldman Warned of Possible Charge
The Securities and Exchange Commission has told the Goldman Sachs Group that it may pursue a complaint against the firm stemming from the early disclosure of the Treasury Department's plans to retire the 30-year bond, a person close to the firm said. C5.

U.S. Takes Over LTV Pensions
The government's pension insurance program will take over three underfinanced retirement plans covering 82,000 workers and retirees of LTV, the troubled steel company. C5.

Chip Sales Fell in February
Computer-chip sales fell 35 percent in February, declining at the slowest pace since June, an industry group said. Sales fell to $10.01 billion, from $15.48 billion in February 2001. C2.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks personal income from Septmber 2001-February 2002. Graph tracks the Nikkei 225 weekly from April 2001-March 2002. Yesterday: 11,024.94. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RENEWABLE PLASTICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (86%); RECESSION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); TAX FRAUD (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); TAX LAW (69%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (68%); OIL EXTRACTION (65%); WILDLIFE (64%); APPROVALS (63%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARGENTINA (95%); JAPAN (92%); ARCTIC (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



770 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Between a City and Some Villages, a Proposed Mall, and So Much More 

BYLINE:  By LISA W. FODERARO 

DATELINE: PELHAM, N.Y., March 29 

 BODY:
On the surface, the dispute was over a sewer line and whether the Westchester County executive had the power to authorize its relocation without the County Legislature's approval.
 But when a state judge dismissed a lawsuit on Thursday that had been brought by seven county legislators, he may have removed one of the last obstacles to a fiercely contested $45 million mall proposal that has pitted the struggling city of Mount Vernon against the more genteel villages of Pelham and Pelham Manor. 
 Mount Vernon has sought for years to develop 15 acres straddling Sandford Boulevard, just a few blocks from the Pelham border, in an effort to inject some much-needed cash into the city's coffers. But Pelham protested, and the dispute has centered on the usual suspects of suburban development battles: traffic and sprawl. 
The struggle has revealed some of the perceived class frictions involved when a big city with a large minority population goes up against its upper-crust neighbors. Because the proposed shopping center is a mere football pass from the Pelham public schools and athletic fields, the tone of the dispute has risen to a virtual wail, with schoolchildren held out as Exhibit A.
"If this geographic boundary was moved a quarter mile down the road," said Terrence F. Martell, the Pelham school board president, "and Pelham High School was Mount Vernon High school instead, I can assure you they wouldn't be putting up a mall a couple of yards away in an area that is already heavily trafficked."
Mount Vernon's mayor, Ernest D. Davis, who calls Pelham a "closed community" because of its scarcity of affordable housing, accused the project's opponents of arrogance and insensitivity.
"How dare they be so arrogant as to try to dictate what another city, a major city, does with its property," he said, referring to a series of lawsuits that failed to stop the project.
"Mount Vernon is not a closed community," Mr. Davis said. "We have special needs here. We have people who can't afford to live in Pelham. We don't have a strong tax base by which to provide the services that our people sorely need."
Last year the Legislature delayed the 285,000-square-foot shopping center by holding up an approval that the developer, G & S Investors of Old Bethpage, N.Y., needed to move the sewer line, which crosses the site. But County Executive Andrew J. Spano secured a permit through the Board of Acquisition and Contracts, which he oversees.
Seven county legislators, complaining that Mr. Spano had done an end run, sued to avoid the permit. They were joined by the town of Pelham, the villages of Pelham and Pelham Manor and the Pelham school district. Judge W. Denis Donovan of State Supreme Court ruled this week that the entire 17-member Legislature would have to challenge the permit approval.
Mr. Davis said today that the city could now move forward, realizing its dream of creating $4 million in annual sales tax revenue and 400 jobs, as well as "establishing Mount Vernon as an economic hub for Westchester County."
But Thomas J. Abinanti, a Democratic county legislator, said he would urge his fellow lawmakers to appeal the ruling. He called the development, which is to include a Best Buy and a Target, "the wrong project in the wrong place," adding that it would lead to the "further deterioration of downtown Mount Vernon and the destruction of the good neighborhoods of the Pelhams."
Today Mr. Davis accused Mr. Abinanti of forming an "unholy alliance" with representatives of the Pelham area. Mr. Abinanti's district includes Greenburgh, which has been waging its own struggle against Yonkers over a big-box development on the Greenburgh border. 
"You have to ask why are they doing this," Mr. Davis said. "I think it's a mass design to try to stop Yonkers from developing and Mount Vernon from developing."
Art L. Scinta, the mayor of the village of Pelham, said the two villages, the town of Pelham and the Pelham Union Free School District, had spent "hundreds of thousands of dollars" trying to ease potential traffic problems from the future project.
Among other things, officials proposed changing the location of exits off the Hutchinson River Parkway, which runs by the site, to keep cars from whizzing past the Pelham schools. "Unfortunately if you don't have cooperation from the other side, none of these will go anywhere," Mr. Scinta said.
Opponents also object to the retail complex on grounds that part of the site is technically listed as parkland on city maps. And they point to the troubled projects G & S has undertaken in the past, like a Home Depot on Long Island that was abandoned because of structural flaws.
But by far the biggest concern is traffic. "We're talking about a project that will draw two million cars a year," Mr. Scinta said. "Most of those cars need to travel on Pelham roads to get to the project, and those Pelham roads go right past our middle school, high school, library and athletic fields."
Mr. Davis said he hoped the shopping center brought more traffic. ("If you don't have traffic, you've got a problem," he said.) But he insisted that the project would actually make the area around the schools safer. "It will compel us to have signals and crosswalks where the children can safely cross," he said.
For their part, Pelham officials seem to resent the mayor's many references to class divisions. "Energy could be better spent trying to work together to find a solution to this problem," Mr. Scinta said, "instead of exchanging words of warfare."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Art L. Scinta, left, the mayor of the village of Pelham, opposes a shopping center in Mount Vernon. Ernest D. Davis, the Mount Vernon mayor, says it would provide an economic boost. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); JUDGES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); RETAILERS (87%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); SUBURBS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); SCHOOL BOARDS (70%); CHILDREN (68%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W; DAVIS, ERNEST D (MAYOR); SCINTA, ART L (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) MOUNT VERNON (NY); PELHAM (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



771 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: The Wimps Of War 

BYLINE:  By FRANK RICH; E-mail: frankrich@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Here's how bad things are for the Democrats. During the last town meeting of liberals that still convenes on network television -- Hollywood's Oscar ceremony -- no one, not even the tag team of Barbra Streisand and Robert Redford, had so much as a mildly critical word to say about George W. Bush. But Nathan Lane scored one of the night's few laughs when he saluted movie animators for "creating the illusion of life -- something that was never achieved with Al Gore."
 Such is the torpor of the Democrats these days that Mr. Gore's shaving of his beard is what passes for a galvanizing party event worthy of national polls (62 percent were pro-shave) and desperate '04 prognostication on CNN. Even the Democrats' rare legislative victory, the passage of the campaign finance bill, was robbed of its glory when the party chairman, Terry McAuliffe, almost simultaneously announced a record soft-money donation of $7 million from the "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles" mogul, not to mention a spring Apollo Theater fund-raiser at which Bill Clinton will be paired with Michael Jackson, fresh from his photo op at Liza Minnelli's wedding. 
 If the Democrats stand for anything in a time of rapidly expanding war, it's not clear what it is. Hours before the Passover massacre in Netanya, President Bush could assert that the latest diplomatic foray by Gen. Anthony Zinni was "making very good progress" with little worry that any Democratic leader would challenge him. The incoherence and indolence of the Bush "policy" in the Middle East, which kept General Zinni out of the region for three months of violent meltdown and ultimately rendered Dick Cheney a supplicant to Yasir Arafat, has been more forcefully dissected by conservatives like George Will than anyone in the administration's opposition. At home, the Democrats can't even offer a serious alternative to the Bush budget for the simple reason that they helped give away the store by abetting the administration's mammoth tax cut last summer and made no legislative push for even partial rollbacks after the fiscal world changed on Sept. 11.
The explanations for this fecklessness start, of course, with the president's poll numbers. Democrats are so intimidated by them that a recent open memo co-written by James Carville found hope that Mr. Bush was "falling back to earth" in a survey showing that his approval rating had tumbled from 82 percent in December to a March low of . . . 75. Compounding the Democrats' fear of a popular president is the Republicans' calculated rollout of a strategy branding anyone who questions the administration as "giving aid and comfort to our enemies" (the phrase actually used by Tom Davis of Virginia, the head of the G.O.P.'s House campaign committee).
This strategy was codified by Karl Rove in a January speech to the Republican National Committee inviting his party to politicize the war in an election year because Americans "trust the Republicans to do a better job" of "protecting America." But the impugning of the opposition's patriotism began only two months after Sept. 11, when the Family Research Council ran ads in South Dakota likening Tom Daschle to Saddam Hussein because the Senate majority leader had opposed oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. In late February, when Mr. Daschle raised a few mild, common-sense cavils about the next stage of the war, Trent Lott fired back, "How dare Senator Daschle criticize President Bush while we are fighting our war on terrorism?" Since then, President Bush's image and voice have graced negative TV and radio ads in which firefighters and flags are used as props and incumbent Senate Democrats are demonized as partisans who will "put their interests ahead of national interests." 
Such tactics are sufficiently ugly that two Republican senators who, unlike Mr. Lott, didn't take deferments during Vietnam, John McCain and Chuck Hagel, were moved to defend Mr. Daschle's right to question war policy after the minority leader's attack. So was another Vietnam vet, Colin Powell. But except for a speech given in New Hampshire by John Kerry, a presidential candidate inoculated against charges of treason by his own Vietnam heroism, no Democrat has articulated a muscular alternative wartime political vision to the president's. As Nicholas Lemann reports this week in his compelling New Yorker account of the White House run-up to a planned removal of Saddam, the administration is now using Sept. 11 "as the occasion to launch a new, aggressive American foreign policy that would represent a broad change in direction rather than a specific war on terrorism." Where is the debate? 
It's an index of the general sheepishness of Democratic leaders that such sporadic tough talk as there is usually emanates by default from either the clownish Mr. McAuliffe or the cranky Senate octogenarians Robert Byrd and Ernest Hollings. It's a measure of how compromised leading Democrats are by their own ties to Enron, Global Crossing and the accounting industry that the heavy lifting in pursuing Mr. Cheney's secret energy task force and the dubious Enron dealings of the secretary of the Army, Thomas White, has often fallen to the House's Henry Waxman, who doesn't have the power to call his own hearings. 
As for Mr. Gore, America's "president in exile," in the hopeful formulation of the best-selling populist Michael Moore, his most pointed remarks are served up to rich paying customers at fund-raisers. Our country has seen more spirited political back-and-forth over the merger of Hewlett-Packard and Compaq and the factual verisimilitude of "A Beautiful Mind" than it has over a $48 billion defense-budget increase (itself larger than the entire defense budget of any other nation) or our uncertain policy for stabilizing Afghanistan so that the victory by Mr. Bush and our armed forces over the Taliban isn't usurped once more by Al-Qaeda-breeding chaos.
Trent Lott did nail his adversaries correctly on one score. "When you don't have anything substantive to talk about," he said, "you start talking about process or how you need more information." This fits the Democrats' one bold but almost substance-free stand of late -- the threat to subpoena Tom Ridge if he won't formally testify before Congress about what he's up to as director of homeland security. Would Mr. Ridge really have much to say even if he did testify? His biggest function seems to be to supply gags to late-night comics with his color-coded alert system. The man who has by far the most clout over domestic security (and much else) is John Ashcroft, who continues trying to grab authority from other agencies (from the Treasury Department to the Federal Trade Commission), not to mention extra-constitutional power, with even less resistance from Democrats than they mustered against his appointment in the first place. 
Last week, in a typical stroke of grandstanding designed to deflect us from his stalled anthrax investigation and other hapless efforts to find terrorists within our borders, the attorney general announced that he would haul in thousands more men for questioning. He hopes we'll forget that his previous dragnet produced no Sept. 11-related arrests and, according to officials consulted by USA Today, "little usable intelligence about terrorism." 
Mr. Ashcroft couldn't even find half of the nearly 5,000 subjects he intended to interview in that previous roundup, but not until there was universal outrage this month over the I.N.S.'s posthumous granting of visas to two of the Sept. 11 hijackers did he decide "to move up the timetable" for the agency's reform (as a Justice Department official delicately put it). This week Mr. Ashcroft made yet another move that puts his own political posturing ahead of the war on terrorism by seeking the death penalty for Zacarias Moussaoui. Few legal experts believe that the courts will uphold a death sentence for an indirect participant in the attacks (Mr. Moussaoui was already in jail on Sept. 11), but by overreaching anyway Mr. Ashcroft has given the French government grounds to withhold evidence needed to prosecute the case. 
It isn't treason for a party out of power in wartime to talk about these matters. If anything, it's the Democrats' patriotic responsibility not just to hold up their end of the national dialogue over the war's means and ends, but to say where they want to take the country in peace. Yet now that they've capitulated on issues ranging from fuel-economy standards to gun control, the sum of a Democratic social vision these days often seems to have dwindled down to a prescription drug program for Medicare patients. For the party itself, however, nothing short of a spine transplant may do.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FILM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); BUDGETS (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); ANIMATION (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); FUNDRAISING (68%); TERRORISM (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%) TERRORISM; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (73%); TOM DAVIS (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); FRANK RICH (50%) RICH, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



772 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1973 words

HEADLINE: 3 Months in Office, Bloomberg Has Set New Political Tone 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Three months is not long enough to judge a marriage, a new home or a mayoralty. But within that period, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who unexpectedly took the helm of New York City during one of its most difficult periods in modern history, has in many ways profoundly altered the tenor, if not the substance, of city government.
 He is a mayor who reads e-mail sent personally to him from the public, rides the subway to City Hall and loves nothing more than for a stranger to approach him in a restaurant requesting a photograph. Many days, he walks out to lunch with a security detail smaller than the former mayor still has, and as a result often goes unnoticed on the street. 
 Mr. Bloomberg is also a mayor who places a premium on his personal privacy, saving his few moments of public ire for those who ask him how he spent his weekend. He still speaks far more comfortably before business leaders than before police officers. And in spite of the broad consensus building he has insisted on, he has yet to articulate a wide range of initiatives or goals, preferring a razor focus on three areas: rebuilding Lower Manhattan, school governance and the budget. 
While he has managed to escape the shadow of his predecessor, Mr. Bloomberg is still far less known to New Yorkers than Rudolph W. Giuliani was at this point in his tenure, and in turn, parts of New York are still in many ways an enigma to the mayor. "He is not a blank slate, but there is still not much writing on the chalkboard," said Douglas Muzzio, a professor of public affairs at Baruch College. "He has been parsimonious in dealing out facts about his worldview and his general orientation. Both Dinkins and certainly Giuliani had a political agenda coming in. Bloomberg's agenda, if it is there, is much less clear and much less overtly political, and he is acting on it in a much less dramatic way."
At his first town hall meeting this month, Mr. Bloomberg listed two accomplishments: putting together "the greatest team that any mayor has ever had the privilege to work with" and "second, to set a tone."
Clearly, after eight years of Mr. Giuliani, who micromanaged the city with an ideologically charged vision for how to transform public policy, Mr. Bloomberg has altered the role that key subordinates play in government. Many create and promote their own programs and all feel free to voice their ideas. "The mayor lets commissioners run their agencies," said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the city's health commissioner, echoing several commissioners interviewed in the last few months.
And there is little doubt that there is a new civic vibe. Budget watchdogs, union leaders, civil rights activists, former mayors and others have roundly praised Mr. Bloomberg for fostering an inclusive atmosphere at City Hall, in which all are welcome to share opinions on policy. 
"We had zero contact with the previous administration," said Larry Horowitz, chairman of Community Board 7 on the Upper West Side, who was invited to Gracie Mansion this month for the first time since the Koch administration for a cocktail party. "It was really an encouraging sign." 
That open-door attitude appears to be paying off, at least for now, so much so that Mr. Bloomberg has not been confronted with the usual wrath from various corners of the city -- even after he proposed one of the most austere budgets in decades. 
"I think that myself and others are trying to capitalize on this moment of detente," said Mary Brosnahan Sullivan, executive director of the Coalition for the Homeless.
Instead of staging regular protests on the steps of City Hall, Ms. Sullivan's organization and others have tried to work directly with this administration. "We feel that there is receptivity on the other side of the door," said Ms. Sullivan, who spent years on the outside of City Hall. "So we are willing to forgo the theatrics for a while to see if there will be any substantial change."
But all the reaching out and hugging has had its downsides. Partly by soliciting so many opinions, and perhaps because of the autonomy he has given so many subordinates, who like any set of humans do not always think in synchronization, the mayor has seen his plan coalesce much more slowly than those of previous administrations.
The mayor or one of his aides will talk one day about setting sliding-scale tolls on bridges and tunnels based on a driver's residency, and then the next day, he will say that is all just a vague notion. His administration is exploring incinerators as an option to the city's colossal garbage problem, but Mr. Bloomberg has vacillated on whether that would ever be a viable alternative.
And his administration has yet to weigh in on one of the most controversial Giuliani policies, the welfare-to-work rules. The only significant clue wafted out of a recent City Council hearing, during which Verna Eggleston, the commissioner of human resources, said the administration would refuse a federal waiver that would allow unemployed, childless adults seeking work to receive food stamps. Even that position is one that Mr. Bloomberg has not talked about publicly, and some members of his administration oppose it and are working to upend it. 
Advocates for the poor and supporters of Mr. Giuliani's policies alike say they are eager for a strong message to emerge. "It is preferable to articulate a philosophy than have the whole administration wait," said Heather MacDonald, a fellow at the Manhattan Institute, an organization that frequently shared Mr. Giuliani's views. "I think he is trying to control his message now."
It is also clear that Mr. Bloomberg's honeymoon is ending. Protesters, particularly those clamoring for tax increases over budget cuts, have resurfaced as part of the foliage in Lower Manhattan. The mayor's recent remark that parents of minority children do not understand how bad the schools are drew fire, as did some of his statements about how to handle garbage. And board members of the Museum of the City of New York were not among those on Mr. Bloomberg's distribution list when he decided to pull their deal to move into the Tweed Courthouse out from under them; the museum's director quit in protest. 
"There is no longer the passion of a honeymoon, but there has not been a filing for divorce," said the Rev. Al Sharpton, whom Mr. Bloomberg met with early in his administration. "I am not disillusioned, but I am watching more carefully, especially on the schools and budget."
One reason there is not a policy-a-week initiative from Mr. Bloomberg's administration is that he has kept his attention almost exclusively on three issues: rebuilding Lower Manhattan, dealing with the budget and pushing to overtake the school system. He pursues rebuilding with vigor via his subordinates, although he is often overshadowed by Gov. George E. Pataki, who has exerted more control over the process and has made it his business to be on hand for almost every news conference related to ground zero.
And while mayoral control of the schools has become a central theme for his tenure, Mr. Bloomberg has become publicly passionate about it only in the last month. On Martin Luther King's Birthday, Mr. Bloomberg went on a show on a black radio station and said merely, "I don't think the Board of Ed does a good job at providing an education." Two months later, he was calling the board a "rinky-dink candy store" and saying that he would not be able to look himself in the mirror unless he could control of the board.
And it may be that Mr. Bloomberg's true ideological leanings and social policy agenda outside of education will emerge as part of the budget process. "It seems as if the budget will drive his policy agenda," Mr. Muzzio said. "Which is the exact opposite of Dinkins and Giuliani." 
In small but noticeable ways, Mr. Bloomberg's on-the-job training at City Hall provides him the chance to show off his new knowledge about, say, how power plants work. 
Left to his own devices, though, he can still display a novice's grasp of government. In a recent speech, he mentioned the city budget's PEG program, saying the acronym stood for "Plug the Economic Gap." (Government wonks be alert: it stands for Program to Eliminate the Gap.)
And asked last week whether he would want a garbage incinerator in his backyard on Park Avenue, Mr. Bloomberg pronounced that a bad idea because it would drive away business. The proper answer, a former city official volunteered, would have been to mention the marine transfer station at Gracie Mansion as a possible site for an incinerator. (The station, once used as a landing dock for waterborne mayors, is on an old list of possible incinerator sites, but Mr. Bloomberg may not know that since he does not live at Gracie Mansion.) 
In some ways, New York City has two mayors: the businessman, whom Mr. Bloomberg insisted after Sept. 11 was what the city desperately needed, and the new politician, who is most visible to average New Yorkers. This was starkly illustrated on Wednesday, when Mr. Bloomberg went from overseeing the graduation of new police officers in the morning to a lunch for construction trade professionals at the Regent hotel on Wall Street.
The graduation was fairly emotional -- the class was the first to join the force since Sept. 11, and a video of those who died in the terrorist attack opened the ceremony. But Mr. Bloomberg's speech began with an anecdote about fingerprinting technology, and his tone barely changed when he described the difficulties this class faced as junior officers on that horrible day last fall. "You are ready to hit the ground running," he said flatly. 
Less than an hour later, as he addressed the construction industry, Mr. Bloomberg was relaxed and jocular as he told one of his favorite standbys. ("People ask me the difference between government and the business world. The business world is a dog-eat-dog world. In government, it is exactly the opposite.") The mayor then outlined specific ideas about how the economy could recover and what the city was doing in the meantime, and gave blunt explanations of what he thought the business world needed to do. 
The mayor has given several such speeches at the Regent and to business leaders elsewhere in the city, leaving his audiences almost always enraptured. "It was a stellar performance," said Omar Javaid, chairman of Mobilocity, a technology consulting firm, who attended the New York Software Summit in early March, where Mr. Bloomberg was a keynote speaker. "His speech was warm and funny. Prior to that, I had only seen him give speeches on television and I didn't find those very engaging."
Some suggest that Mr. Bloomberg's business background has also made him a strong sell to Washington lawmakers who are otherwise cool to New York. "I think it helps to have a businessman and a Republican and someone who walks in in Paul Stuart clothing," one aide said.
To others, though, there is something striking about the juxtaposition of this mayor's style of living with the financial condition of the city. His city agencies are struggling with devastating budget cuts, and council members are beginning to plot strategies to distribute the pain in different ways. Meanwhile, on the weekends, Mr. Bloomberg can escape the week's travails in his private jet to estates in lovely locales. And many New Yorkers are still not accustomed to hearing his Boston twang when they turn on their televisions.
But slowly, this mayor is becoming familiar to his constituents, as he divulges just a few personal glimpses along the way. What does Mr. Bloomberg really care about? His daughters, he has said that much. Other random facts: He owned a dog named Candy growing up that he carried in his coat. He likes hats on women. He very much enjoys peanut butter. And being the mayor is the best job he has ever had, he said. So far.

GRAPHIC: Photos (pg. B2) Chart: "FACES: The Bloomberg Inner Circle"If power is proximity, then those who sit down for Mayor Bloomberg's daily 8 a.m. meeting have it. A commissioner is invited to attend each day. Michael R. Bloomberg Marc V. Shaw -- Deputy mayor for operationsRecent claim to fame: Oversees the budget; in charge when the mayor leaves town.Little-known fact: Loves cigars. Patricia E. Harris -- Deputy mayor for administrationRecent claim to fame: Coordinated the "Tribute in Light" project.Little-known fact: Deep-sea diver. Dennis M. Walcott -- Deputy mayor for policyRecent claim to fame: Mayoral speechwriter for testimony before City Council.Little-known fact: Avid Mets fan. Daniel Doctoroff -- Deputy mayor for economic developmentRecent claim to fame: Put together new ferry service in Lower Manhattan.Little-known fact: A competitive dieter. Carol Robles-Roman -- Deputy mayor for legal affairsRecent claim to fame: Oversaw transfer of the Twin Towers Fund to Giuliani Partners.Little-known fact: Works in stocking feet. Kevin Sheekey -- Special adviserRecent claim to fame: Handpicked the lawmakers in Washington visited by the mayor.Little-known fact: Shopaholic for his infant twins. Michael A. Cardozo -- Corporation counselRecent claim to fame: Managed the flap over the Giuliani archives.Little-known fact: a Sephardic Jew often mistaken for an Italian Catholic. Peter J. Madonia -- Chief of staffRecent claim to fame: Cut 20 percent from the mayor's office.Little-known fact: Bronx baker. William T. Cunningham -- Director of communicationsRecent claim to fame: Leans on editorial boards and columnists to promote the mayor's school plan.Little-known fact: Military history buff steeped in East Coast battles. Edward Skyler -- Press secretaryRecent claim to fame: Lets commissioners speak without a filter.Little-known fact: Hidden sense of humor. Vincent A. La Padula -- Senior adviserRecent claim to fame: Developing new 311 system.Little-known fact: Showed the mayor where he once washed dishes on Staten Island.(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BUDGETS (73%); HISTORY (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); POLITICS (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MAYORS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; STEINHAUER, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002 



773 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY; 
Deals and Discounts

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH SIANO 

 BODY:
 For those who cannot wait for summer, a few spring suggestions.

SHAMU IS YOUR NEIGHBOR: The Renaissance Orlando Resort, across the street from SeaWorld Orlando, has discounts for bookings for stays May 10 to 12. Rates are $109 per room per night. The 778-room resort has a pool, tennis courts, 24-hour health club and spa services. Availability is limited. Call (407) 351-5555 and ask for rate code LLRP; www.renaissancehotels.com. If you can't get away until summer, the same rates are available June 28 through July 5.

NORTH OF THE BORDER: Through April 30, the 294-room Sutton Place Hotel, on Bay Street in central Toronto, offers its Spring Break Escape Package starting at $109 a night, double (at $1.61 Canadian to the United States dollar), up to $174 for a suite. That includes self-parking, full breakfast for two in the hotel restaurant or in your room, and an in-room movie. Amenities include an indoor pool. Taxes are extra, availability is limited and some restrictions apply. For information: (800) 268-3790 or go to www.suttonplace.com.

IVY LEAGUE: The Inn at Harvard, with 113 rooms on Harvard Square in Cambridge, Mass., is celebrating its 10th anniversary with a Diamond Anniversary Rate. Overlook how they came up with a diamond anniversary out of 10 years, and you'll find a rate of $99 a night for a double room, plus tax, through April 30. There's also a Diamond Weekend Getaway for $250, double, for one night's accommodations, a four-course dinner for two, valet parking and all taxes and tips (alcoholic beverages extra). Call (617) 491-2222 or visit www.theinnatharvard.com.

MICRO ECONOMICS: Spring Fever Specials, available through May 24 at Microtel Inns and Suites nationwide, start at $32 a night single and $42 double. Rates do not include tax, and there may be blackout dates. There are 128 Microtel properties in 38 states participating in this offer, with most in the South and Southeast. For information: (888) 771-7171 or on the Web at www .microtelinn.com.

NANTUCKET FIX-UP: The Harbor House Village (formerly the Harbor House), a 130-year-old hotel near downtown Nantucket scheduled to reopen next month after a major renovation, is offering three nights for the price of two from April 25 to May 31. Rates start at $170 a night. From June 1 to Sept. 2, there are five nights for the price of four, at $325 a night and up. The 104 rooms have been redone with pine and wicker furniture. Amenities include a heated outdoor pool (open weather permitting). Accommodations are in the 35-room historic Harbor House and in separate town houses. Blackout dates apply; availability is limited. Call (866) 325-9300 or go to the Web at www.harborhousevillage.com. JOSEPH SIANO

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); HOTEL AMENITIES (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); MENU PRICES (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (64%); BUILDING RENOVATION (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; DISCOUNT SELLING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: SIANO, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



774 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 4485 words

HEADLINE: How Susie Bayer's T-Shirt Ended Up on Yusuf Mama's Back 

BYLINE:  By George Packer; George Packer is the author of "Blood of the Liberals." His last feature article for the magazine was on Schools Chancellor Harold Levy.

 BODY:
If you've ever left a bag of clothes outside the Salvation Army or given to a local church drive, chances are that you've dressed an African. All over Africa, people are wearing what Americans once wore and no longer want. Visit the continent and you'll find faded remnants of secondhand clothing in the strangest of places. The "Let's Help Make Philadelphia the Fashion Capital of the World" T-shirt on a Malawian laborer. The white bathrobe on a Liberian rebel boy with his wig and automatic rifle. And the muddy orange sweatshirt on the skeleton of a small child, lying on its side in a Rwandan classroom that has become a genocide memorial.
 A long chain of charity and commerce binds the world's richest and poorest people in accidental intimacy. It's a curious feature of the global age that hardly anyone on either end knows it. 
 A few years ago, Susie Bayer bought a T-shirt for her workouts with the personal trainer who comes regularly to her apartment on East 65th Street in Manhattan. It was a pale gray cotton shirt, size large, made in the U.S.A. by JanSport, with the red and black logo of the University of Pennsylvania on its front. Over time, it got a few stains on it, and Bayer, who is 72, needed more drawer space, so last fall she decided to get rid of the shirt. She sent it, along with a few other T-shirts and a couple of silk nightgowns, to the thrift shop that she has been donating her clothes to for the past 40 years.
Americans buy clothes in disposable quantities -- $165 billion worth last year. Then, like Susie Bayer, we run out of storage space, or we put on weight, or we get tired of the way we look in them, and so we pack the clothes in garbage bags and lug them off to thrift shops.
When I told Susie Bayer that I was hoping to follow her T-shirt to Africa, she cried, "I know exactly what you're doing!" As a girl, her favorite movie at the Loews on West 83rd was "Tales of Manhattan" -- the story of a coat that passes from Charles Boyer through a line of other people, including Charles Laughton and Edward G. Robinson, bringing tragedy or luck, before finally falling out of the sky with thousands of dollars in the pockets and landing on the dirt plot of a sharecropper played by Paul Robeson. 
Bayer writes off about $1,000 a year in donations, and the idea that some of it ends up on the backs of Africans delights her. "Maybe our clothes change the lives of these people," she said. "This is Susie Bayer's statement. No one would agree with me, but maybe some of the vibrations are left over in the clothing. Maybe some of the good things about us can carry through." She went on: "I'd like us to be less selfish. Because we have been very greedy. Very greedy. Americans think they can buy happiness. They can't. The happiness comes in the giving, and that's why I love the thrift shop."
Twenty-four blocks north, up First Avenue, the Call Again Thrift Shop is run by two blunt-spoken women named Virginia Edelman and Marilyn Balk. They sit in their depressing back office, surrounded by malfunctioning TV's and used blenders and a rising sea of black garbage bags. 
From a heap of clothing in front of her, Edelman extracts a baseball shirt that says "Yorkville" across its front. "Look at this. Who would want to buy something like this? It's just junk. Junky junky junk. This stuff bagged in a garbage bag, it's so wrinkled we don't even look at it. This is a Peter Pan costume or something -- I don't know what the hell it is."
Edelman and Balk have been toiling at Call Again for two decades. Their dank little basement, crammed with last year's mildewing clothes, has no more space. The storage shed out back looks ready to explode. The women inspect every item that comes in, searching for any reason to get rid of it. Their shop space is limited, and their customers are relentlessly picky. This being the Upper East Side, the store displays a size-4 Kenneth Cole leather woman's suit, worn once or not at all, that retails for $600 but is selling here for $200. 
Edelman and Balk sit neck-deep in the runoff of American prosperity, struggling to direct the flow and keep it from backing up and drowning them. "It's endless," Balk says. "Yesterday we got, I don't know, five donations. It's like seven maids and seven grooms trying to sweep the seas. Or Sisyphus, was it? Trying to roll the rock?" 
One day a few years ago, relief came to them in the form of a young man named Eric Stubin, who runs Trans-Americas Trading Company, a textile recycling factory in Brooklyn. He said that he was willing to send a truck every Tuesday to haul away what the women didn't want and that he would pay them three cents a pound for it. "You never heard two people happier to hear from someone in your life," Edelman says. Now every month 1,200 or 1,300 pounds of rejected donations are trucked to Brooklyn, and every three months Call Again gets a check for $100 or so, money that goes to charity. 
Edelman estimates that more than a third of the donations that Call Again receives ends up in Trans-Americas' recycling factory. Goodwill Industries, which handles more than a billion pounds a year in North America, puts its figure at 50 percent. Some sources estimate that of the 2.5 billion pounds of clothes that Americans donate each year, as much as 80 percent gets trucked off to places like Trans-Americas.
Though the proceeds go to charity programs, these numbers are not readily publicized. Susie Bayer isn't the typical donor. "Everybody who gives us things thinks that it's the best thing in the world," Edelman says. "They feel as if they're doing a wonderful thing for charity. And they do it for themselves -- for the tax write-off. Unfortunately, I don't think people know what charity is anymore. They would be horrified if they thought that they bought a suit at Barneys or Bergdorf's for $1,100 and we chucked it for three cents a pound because of a torn lining."
Susie Bayer's T-shirt goes straight into the reject pile. "We have a thousand of them," Virginia Edelman says. "Get it out of here."
This is where the trail grows tricky, for what had been charitable suddenly crosses a line that tax law and moral convention think inviolable -- it turns commercial, and no one likes to talk very much about what happens next. A whiff of secrecy and even shame still clings to the used- clothing trade, left over from the days of shtetl Jews and Lower East Side rag dealers. The used-clothing firms are mostly family-owned, and the general feeling seems to be that the less the public knows, the better. 
The owners of Trans-Americas, Edward and Eric Stubin, father and son, are more open than most in the industry, though they wouldn't share their annual sales figures with me. In 2001, used clothing was one of America's major exports to Africa, with $61.7 million in sales. Latin America and Asia have formidable trade barriers. Some African countries -- Nigeria, Eritrea, South Africa -- ban used clothing in order to protect their own domestic textile industries, which creates a thriving and quite open black market. For years, Africa has been Trans-Americas' leading overseas market for used clothing, absorbing two-thirds of its exports. 
"There'll always be demand for secondhand clothing," says Eric Stubin, who reads widely about Africa, "because unfortunately the world is becoming a poorer and poorer place. Used clothing is the only affordable means for these people to put quality clothing on their body."
Edward Stubin agrees. "I have a quote: 'We can deliver a garment to Africa for less than the cost of a stamp."'
Trans-Americas' five-story brick building stands a block from the East River wharves in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. Inside, 60,000 pounds of clothes a day pour down the slides from the top floor, hurry along conveyor belts where Hispanic women stand and fling pieces into this bin or down that chute, fall through openings from floor to floor and land in barrels and cages, where they are then pressure-packed into clear plastic four-foot-high bales and tied with metal strapping -- but never washed. Whatever charming idiosyncrasy a pair of trousers might have once possessed is annihilated in the mass and crush. Not only does the clothing cease to be personal, it ceases to be clothing. Watching the process of sorting and grading feels a little like a visit to the slaughterhouse. 
"We get the good, the bad and the ugly," Eric Stubin tells me as we tour the factory. "Ripped sweaters, the occasional sweater with something disgusting on it, the pair of underwear you don't want to talk about. We're getting what the thrifts can't sell." There are more than 300 export categories at the factory, but the four essential classifications are "Premium," "Africa A," "Africa B" and "Wiper Rag." "Premium" goes to Asia and Latin America. "Africa A" -- a garment that has lost its brightness -- goes to the better-off African countries like Kenya. "Africa B" -- a stain or small hole -- goes to the continent's disaster areas, its Congos and Angolas. By the time a shirt reaches Kisangani or Huambo, it has been discarded by its owner, rejected at the thrift shop and graded two steps down by the recycler.
Standing in Trans-Americas' office, with wooden airplane propellers hanging next to photographs from Africa, Eric Stubin casts a professional eye on Susie Bayer's T-shirt. In a week, a 54,000-pound container of used clothes will set sail on the steamship Claudia, destination Mombasa, Kenya. Stubin spots a pink stain on the belly of the T-shirt below the university logo and tosses the shirt aside. "Africa," he says. 
But there are many Africas, and used clothing carries a different meaning in each of them. Christianity tenderized most of the continent for the foreign knife, but the societies of Muslim West Africa and Somalia are bits of gristle that have proved more resistant to Western clothes. In warlord-ridden, destitute Somalia, used clothing is called, rather contemptuously, huudhaydh -- as in, "Who died?" A woman in Kenya who once sold used dresses told me that not long ago Kenyans assumed the clothing was removed from dead people and washed it carefully to avoid skin diseases. In Togo, it is called "dead white man's clothing." In Sierra Leone, it's called "junks" and highly prized. In Rwanda, used clothing is known by the word for "choose," and in Uganda, it used to be called "Rwanda," which is where it came from illegally until Uganda opened its doors to what is now called mivumba.
At the vast Owino market in downtown Kampala, Uganda's capital, you can find every imaginable garment, all of it secondhand. Boys sit on hills of shoes, shining them to near-newness, hawkers shout prices, shoppers break a sweat bargaining, porters barge through with fresh bales on their heads. When the wire is cut and the bale bursts open like a pinata, a mob of retailers descends in a ferocious rugby scrum to fight over first pick. Between the humanity and the clothes there is hardly room to move. The used-clothing market is the densest, most electric section of Owino -- the only place where ordinary Africans can join the frenetic international ranks of consumers. 
I knew what this thrice-rejected clothing had gone through to get here, but somehow "Africa" looks much better in Africa -- the colors brighter, the shapes shapelier. A dress that moved along a Brooklyn conveyor belt like a gutted chicken becomes a dress again when it has been charcoal-ironed and hangs sunlit in a Kampala vendor's stall, and a customer holds it to her chest with all the frowning interest of a Call Again donor shopping at Bergdorf-Goodman. Some of the stock looks so good that it gets passed off as new in the fashionable shops on Kampala Road. Government ministers, bodyguards in tow, are known to buy their suits at Owino. Once in Africa, the clothes undergo a transformation like inanimate objects coming to life in a fairy tale. Human effort and human desire work the necessary magic. 
My guide through Owino is a radio-talk-show host named Anne Kizza, a sophisticated woman who knows what she wants in dance wear from reading South African fashion magazines. She always goes to the same vendors, whose merchandise and prices are to her liking; while I am with her, she buys a slim lime-green dress for the equivalent of 60 cents and a black skirt for 30 cents. Price tags are still stapled to some items -- Thrift Store, $3.99, All Sales Final" -- but just as Americans don't know what happens beyond the thrift shop, Africans don't know the origin of the stuff. Most Ugandans assume that the clothes were sold by the American owner. When I explain to a retailer named Fred Tumushabe, who specializes in men's cotton shirts, that the process starts with a piece of clothing that has been given away, he finds the whole business a monstrous injustice. "Then why are they selling to us?" he asks.
The big importers have their shops on Nakivubo Road, which is a hairy 10-minute walk through traffic from Owino. Trans-Americas' buyer in Kampala is a Pakistani named Hussein Ali Merchant. He is 40, with a beard and a paunch and a sad, gentle manner. A diabetic cigarette smoker, he seems to expect to die any day and extends the same good-natured fatalism to his business. "It's a big chain," he says, and all the links beyond Merchant are forged on credit. "Sometimes the people disappear, sometimes they die. Each year I'm getting the loss of at least $30,000. Last year a customer died of yellow fever. His whole body was yellow. He died in Jinja. The money is gone. Forget about it, heh-heh-heh." 
We drink tea in his dark shop among unsold bales stacked 20 feet high. Five or six years ago, when there were only a few clothing shops on Nakivubo Road, his annual profit was about $75,000. Today, with more than 50 stores, his profits are much lower. Merchant is one of Africa's rootless Asian capitalists. Before coming to Uganda in 1995, he twice lost all his money to looting soldiers in Zaire. Between disasters he went to Australia and pumped gas for three months, but he fled back to Africa before his visa expired. "I've been sitting like this for 20 years here. In America you have to work hard, no money, things are very expensive. Here, it's easy. I want to do hard work in America? For what?" Merchant has a frightening vision of himself squeezing price tags onto convenience store stock at midnight in Kentucky. As for Karachi, it terrifies him, and he goes back only once a year to see his family, his doctor and his tailor. "I'm a prince here," he says. "I'm a king here in Africa." 
Merchant's warehouse -- my go down," he calls it in local slang -- is in an industrial quarter of Kampala. On a Saturday afternoon in December, the truck carrying the Trans-Americas shipping container with Susie Bayer's T-shirt pulls in after its long drive from the port of Mombasa on the Kenyan coast. Seven customers -- wholesalers from all over Uganda -- anxiously wait along with Merchant. Among them is a heavy woman in her 40's with a flapper's bob and a look of profound disgust on her fleshy face. Her name is Proscovia Batwaula, but everyone calls her Mama Prossy. As the bales start leaving the container on the heads of young porters, Mama Prossy literally throws her weight around to claim the ones she wants. Merchant, standing back from the flurry, murmurs that a week before, she bloodied another woman's nose in a scuffle over a bale of Canadian cotton skirts.
Eric Stubin has stenciled my initials on the bale containing Susie Bayer's T-shirt. But I never imagined 540 bales coming off the truck at a frantic clip, turned at all angles on young men's heads, amid the chaos of bellowing wholesalers in the glare of the afternoon sun. Finding the T-shirt suddenly seems impossible. When I try to explain my purpose to Mama Prossy, she answers without taking her eyes off the precious merchandise leaving the truck: "What gain will I have? Why should I accommodate you?" She scoffs at the idea of publicity benefits in New York, and as bales disappear into wholesalers' trucks, I start getting a bit desperate.
Then Mama Prossy learns that I teach in American universities. She badly wants her son to attend one; for the first time she takes an interest in me. Moments later, more good luck. Merchant spots my bale coming off the truck, the initials "GP" all of 3 inches high. 
Mama Prossy insists on the right to tear it open and have a look. The used-clothing trade in Africa is fraught with suspicion and rumor and fear of bad bales. Wholesalers bribe the importers' laborers to give them first crack at the most promising stock, based on the look of things through clear plastic. But what Mama Prossy extracts from the top of my bale makes her lip curl in ever-deepening disgust. It is a pink woman's T-shirt. Women's clothes are not supposed to be mixed in with men's. "I will lose money," she announces, and pulls out another piece. "Is this for a fat child? Where are they in Africa? We don't have fat children here in Uganda."
She is angling for a price cut from Merchant, who reminds her that she still owes him 50,000 Ugandan shillings ($30) from last week. She starts calling him "boss." After all, he is higher on the chain, and she needs him more than he needs her. They settle on the equivalent of $60 for the bale, a price that amounts to 19 cents a shirt. Merchant has paid Trans-Americas around 13 cents each, excluding freight charges; he will have little or no profit on the bale, which was graded "mixed," Africa A and B. 
Mama Prossy turns to me. "You say this bale is best quality, better than the others?" It wasn't what I'd said, but I keep my mouth shut. "I doubt," says Mama Prossy, looking me over with quite naked contempt. "We shall see." 
A Kampala journalist named Michael Wakabi told me that Kampala has become "a used culture." The cars are used -- they arrive from Japan with broken power windows and air-conditioners, so Ugandan drivers bake in the sun. Used furniture from Europe lines the streets in Kampala. The Ugandan Army occupies part of neighboring Congo with used tanks and aircraft from Ukraine. And the traditional Ugandan dress made from local cotton, called gomesi, is as rare as the mountain gorilla. To dress African, Ugandans have to have money. 
Twenty years ago, when I was a Peace Corps volunteer in Togo, all the village women wore printed cloth, and many of the men wore embroidered shirts of the same material. The village had at least half a dozen tailors. The mother of eight who lived next door dreamed of making clothes in her own market stall and asked me to help her buy a hand-cranked sewing machine. Used clothes were sold in limited and fairly expensive supply; a villager wore the same piece every day as it disintegrated on his body.
Then the floodgates opened. With the liberalization in Africa of the rules governing used-clothing imports in the past 10 years, Africans, who keep getting poorer, can now afford to wear better than rags. Many told me that without used clothes they would go naked, which, as one pointed out, is not in their traditional culture. And yet they know that something precious has been lost. 
"These secondhand clothes are a problem," a young driver named Robert Ssebunya told me. "Ugandan culture will be dead in 10 years, because we are all looking to these Western things. Ugandan culture is dying even now. It is dead. Dead and buried." The ocean of used clothes that now covers the continent plays its part in telling Africans that their own things are worthless, that Africans can do nothing for themselves. 
But the intensity of the used-clothing section in every market I entered suggests that if something called "Ugandan culture" is dying, something else is taking its place. The used clothes create a new culture here, one of furious commercial enterprise and local interpretation of foreign styles, cut-rate and imitative and vibrant. 
For all this, Uganda is quite capable of mass-producing its own clothes. On the banks of the White Nile, at its source in Jinja on Lake Victoria, a textile company called Southern Range Nyanza uses local cotton, considered the second-best in the world after Egyptian, to manufacture 13 million yards of fabric a year. With the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act of 2000 opening the American market, Southern Range has begun exporting men's cotton shirts to New York -- so shirts that begin in Uganda might make a double crossing of the ocean and end there as well. 
Viren Thakkar, Southern Range's Indian managing director, insists that he can sell the same shirts in Uganda for $3 -- less than twice the cost of a used shirt -- but the dumping of foreign clothes makes it impossible for him to break into the market. "The country has to decide what they want to do," he says, "whether they want to use secondhand clothes continually, or whether they want to bring industry and grow the economy." Globalization has helped to destroy Uganda's textile industry, but Ugandans simply don't believe that their own factory could make clothes as durable and stylish as the stuff that comes in bales from overseas. 
In Jinja's market, Mama Prossy sits like a queen on her wooden storage bin and watches the morning trade. At her feet, half a dozen retailers poke through the innards of the Trans-Americas bale. "You see how you are picking very, very old material," she scolds me. "And you are mixing ladies'. My friend, why are you mixing ladies'? And too much is white."
"I told you," I say, "I don't work for them." 
"But you put your initials on it."
She will lose money on my bale, Mama Prossy insists; she will never buy Trans-Americas again. But the entries she makes in her ledger book show a profit of $98 -- more than 150 percent.
Her retailers sort the T-shirts by their own three-tier grading system. Susie Bayer's is rated second-class and goes for 60 cents to a slender, grave young man in slightly tattered maroon trousers who seems intimidated by the queen on her throne. His name is Philip Nandala, and he is the next-to-last link in the chain. Philip is an itinerant peddler of used clothes, the closest thing in Uganda to the 19th-century rag dealer with his horse-drawn cart -- except that Philip transports his 50-pound bag from market to market by minibus or on his own head, five days a week on the road. "If I stay at home," he says, "I can die of poverty." 
His weekly odyssey begins in Kamu, a trading center on a plateau high above the plains that stretch north all the way to Sudan. I follow Philip and his bag of clothes through the market, watching him dive into one scrum after another as bales burst open. Out comes children's rummage, and Philip fights off several women for a handful of little T-shirts that go into his bag: "Ms. Y's Goofy Goof Troop," "2 BUSY + 2 SMART for TOBACCO 4H" and "Future Harvard Freshman." 
The sun beats down, and Scovia Kuloba, the woman who introduced Philip to the trade, sits under an umbrella among mounds of clothes. Her barker scolds at the market crowd: "People leave the clothes to buy fish! They let their children go naked! This white man brought the clothes with him -- don't you want to buy?"
When I explain to Scovia Kuloba that her goods come from American charities, she stares in disbelief. "Sure? I thought maybe we Africans are the only ones who suffer. The people from there -- I thought they were well off. I think they don't even work."
Her teenage daughter, Susan, whose braids and clothes look straight out of Brooklyn, adds: "I don't want to be poor, you just cry all the time. I hate the sun. I hate Africans." She'll only marry a mzungu, she says, because she knows from movies like "Titanic" and "Why Do Fools Fall in Love" that white men are always faithful, unlike Africans.
Slowly, I become aware of the sound of amplified American voices nearby, along with gunshots and screeching tires. Next to the used-clothing market, an action flick plays on video, with speakers hooked up outside to attract customers. In a dark little room, two dozen adults and children, who have paid 6 cents apiece, sit riveted to "Storm Catcher," starring Dolph Lundgren.
The end of the road is a small hilltop town, green and windswept, called Kapchorwa, about 110 miles northeast of Mama Prossy's stall in downtown Jinja. Clouds hide 14,000-foot Mt. Elgon and, beyond it, Kenya. Philip spreads his wares on a plastic sheet at the foot of a brick wall and works hard all day, a tape measure around his neck. Poor rural Ugandans, the chain's last links, crowd close, arguing and pleading, but Philip is now the one with power, and he barely stirs from his asking price. One young man comes back half a dozen times to try on the same gray hooded coat. It fits perfectly, and it has arrived just in time for the chilly season that is blowing in. But Philip wants $4.70, and the customer only has $1.75.
"This coat is as thick as fish soup," Philip says. "The material lasts 20 years."
"You are killing me," the customer says. "The money is killing me."
"I am not killing you. I bought it at a high price, I ask a high price." 
The customer finally walks away, and Philip returns the coat to his pile. The thrift shop's price tag is still stapled to the back: "$1." At the sight of it, I suddenly feel sad. I think of Virginia Edelman and Marilyn Balk back on the Upper East Side, tossing out truckloads of the stuff, desperate to get rid of it. I remember the torrent pouring down the chutes at Trans-Americas' factory in Brooklyn. On balance, in spite of its problems, I have become a convert to used clothing. Africans want it. It gives them dignity and choice. But now that I have seen them prize so highly, and with such profound effects, what we throw away without a thought, the trail of Susie Bayer's T-shirt only seems to tell one story, a very old one, about the unfairness of the world as it is. 
The T-shirt is buried deep in Philip's pile. My flight back to New York is leaving in four days, and I am concerned about missing it. So I reach into the pile, wanting to position the T-shirt more advantageously. As soon as I touch it, the shirt flies out of my hand. An old man in an embroidered Muslim cap and djellaba, who is missing his lower front teeth, holds it up for inspection. Tracing with his finger, he puzzles out the words printed in red and black around an academic insignia: "University Pennsylvania," he says. He dances away, brandishing the shirt in his fist. Ninety cents is his first offer, but Philip won't budge from $1.20. Eventually, the old man pays. Yusuf Mama, 71, husband of 4, father of 32, has found what he wants.
I ask him why, of all the shirts in the pile, he has chosen this one. "It can help me," he says vaguely. "I have only one shirt."
Later, when I tell the story to people back in Kampala, they shake their heads. Yusuf Mama wanted Susie Bayer's T-shirt, they say, because a mzungu had touched it. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Last fall, a New York woman gave this T-shirt to a local thrift shop, where it started its journey as part of the $61.7million worth of American used clothing sold to Africa last year.; 1. Susie Bayer, the T-shirt donor, at her home on East 65th Street in Manhattan. "Americans think they can buy happiness," she says. "They can't. The happiness comes in the giving."; 2. Virginia Edelman, right, and a volunteer at the Call Again Thrift Shop on First Avenue. Each month the shop sends more than 1,000 pounds of used clothing to a textile recycler.; 3. Eric Stubin at the Brooklyn factory of Trans-Americas, the textile recycler that exports secondhand clothing around the world. The T-shirt was sorted and baled here for its trip to Africa. (Arlene Gottfried for The New York Times); 4. Everyone from government ministers to laborers goes to the bustling Owino market in Kampala, Uganda, where vast quantities of used clothes are bought and sold.; 5. Hussein Ali Merchant outside his Kampala warehouse. Trans-Americas' shipment arrived here, Susie Bayer's T-shirt hidden deep within one of 540 bales of clothing.; 6. Mama Prossy loading her goods from Merchant's warehouse for transport to Jinja, a town on Lake Victoria. At the Jinja market, the T-shirt was bought by a traveling peddler.; 7. Susie Bayer's T-shirt ends its journey in Kapchorwa in eastern Uganda, where Yusuf Mama bought it for the equivalent of $1.20. (Marco Longari/Galbe.com, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: USED MERCHANDISE STORES (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BAYER AG (93%)

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

TICKER: BAYN (FRA) (93%); BAY (MCE) (93%); BAY (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KAMPALA, UGANDA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); LAKE VICTORIA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UGANDA (94%); AFRICA (94%); RWANDA (79%); MALAWI (79%); LIBERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



775 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 8413 words

HEADLINE: Power Steer 

BYLINE:  By Michael Pollan; Michael Pollan, the author of "The Botany of Desire," is a contributing writer for the magazine. His last cover article was about organic food.

 BODY:
Garden City, Kan., missed out on the suburban building boom of the postwar years. What it got instead were sprawling subdivisions of cattle. These feedlots -- the nation's first -- began rising on the high plains of western Kansas in the 50's, and by now developments catering to cows are far more common here than developments catering to people.
 You'll be speeding down one of Finney County's ramrod roads when the empty, dun-colored prairie suddenly turns black and geometric, an urban grid of steel-fenced rectangles as far as the eye can see -- which in Kansas is really far. I say "suddenly," but in fact a swiftly intensifying odor (an aroma whose Proustian echoes are more bus-station-men's-room than cow-in-the-country) heralds the approach of a feedlot for more than a mile. Then it's upon you: Poky Feeders, population 37,000. Cattle pens stretch to the horizon, each one home to 150 animals standing dully or lying around in a grayish mud that it eventually dawns on you isn't mud at all. The pens line a network of unpaved roads that loop around vast waste lagoons on their way to the feedlot's beating heart: a chugging, silvery feed mill that soars like an industrial cathedral over this teeming metropolis of meat. 
 I traveled to Poky early in January with the slightly improbable notion of visiting one particular resident: a young black steer that I'd met in the fall on a ranch in Vale, S.D. The steer, in fact, belonged to me. I'd purchased him as an 8-month-old calf from the Blair brothers, Ed and Rich, for $598. I was paying Poky Feeders $1.60 a day for his room, board and meds and hoped to sell him at a profit after he was fattened. 
My interest in the steer was not strictly financial, however, or even gustatory, though I plan to retrieve some steaks from the Kansas packing plant where No. 534, as he is known, has an appointment with the stunner in June. No, my primary interest in this animal was educational. I wanted to find out how a modern, industrial steak is produced in America these days, from insemination to slaughter.
Eating meat, something I have always enjoyed doing, has become problematic in recent years. Though beef consumption spiked upward during the flush 90's, the longer-term trend is down, and many people will tell you they no longer eat the stuff. Inevitably they'll bring up mad-cow disease (and the accompanying revelation that industrial agriculture has transformed these ruminants into carnivores -- indeed, into cannibals). They might mention their concerns about E. coli contamination or antibiotics in the feed. Then there are the many environmental problems, like groundwater pollution, associated with "Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations." (The word "farm" no longer applies.) And of course there are questions of animal welfare. How are we treating the animals we eat while they're alive, and then how humanely are we "dispatching" them, to borrow an industry euphemism?
Meat-eating has always been a messy business, shadowed by the shame of killing and, since Upton Sinclair's writing of "The Jungle," by questions about what we're really eating when we eat meat. Forgetting, or willed ignorance, is the preferred strategy of many beef eaters, a strategy abetted by the industry. (What grocery-store item is more silent about its origins than a shrink-wrapped steak?) Yet I recently began to feel that ignorance was no longer tenable. If I was going to continue to eat red meat, then I owed it to myself, as well as to the animals, to take more responsibility for the invisible but crucial transaction between ourselves and the animals we eat. I'd try to own it, in other words.
So this is the biography of my cow.
The Blair brothers ranch occupies 11,500 acres of short-grass prairie a few miles outside Sturgis, S.D., directly in the shadow of Bear Butte. In November, when I visited, the turf forms a luxuriant pelt of grass oscillating yellow and gold in the constant wind and sprinkled with perambulating black dots: Angus cows and calves grazing. 
Ed and Rich Blair run what's called a "cow-calf" operation, the first stage of beef production, and the stage least changed by the modern industrialization of meat. While the pork and chicken industries have consolidated the entire life cycles of those animals under a single roof, beef cattle are still born on thousands of independently owned ranches. Although four giant meatpacking companies (Tyson's subsidiary IBP, Monfort, Excel and National) now slaughter and market more than 80 percent of the beef cattle born in this country, that concentration represents the narrow end of a funnel that starts out as wide as the great plains.
The Blairs have been in the cattle business for four generations. Although there are new wrinkles to the process -- artificial insemination to improve genetics, for example -- producing beef calves goes pretty much as it always has, just faster. Calving season begins in late winter, a succession of subzero nights spent yanking breeched babies out of their bellowing mothers. In April comes the first spring roundup to work the newborn calves (branding, vaccination, castration); then more roundups in early summer to inseminate the cows ($15 mail-order straws of elite bull semen have pretty much put the resident stud out of work); and weaning in the fall. If all goes well, your herd of 850 cattle has increased to 1,600 by the end of the year. 
My steer spent his first six months in these lush pastures alongside his mother, No. 9,534. His father was a registered Angus named GAR Precision 1,680, a bull distinguished by the size and marbling of his offspring's rib-eye steaks. Born last March 13 in a birthing shed across the road, No. 534 was turned out on pasture with his mother as soon as the 80-pound calf stood up and began nursing. After a few weeks, the calf began supplementing his mother's milk by nibbling on a salad bar of mostly native grasses: western wheatgrass, little bluestem, green needlegrass.
Apart from the trauma of the April day when he was branded and castrated, you could easily imagine No. 534 looking back on those six months grazing at his mother's side as the good old days -- if, that is, cows do look back. ("They do not know what is meant by yesterday or today," Friedrich Nietzsche wrote, with a note of envy, of grazing cattle, "fettered to the moment and its pleasure or displeasure, and thus neither melancholy or bored." Nietzsche clearly had never seen a feedlot.) It may be foolish to presume to know what a cow experiences, yet we can say that a cow grazing on grass is at least doing what he has been splendidly molded by evolution to do. Which isn't a bad definition of animal happiness. Eating grass, however, is something that, after October, my steer would never do again.
Although the modern cattle industry all but ignores it, the reciprocal relationship between cows and grass is one of nature's underappreciated wonders. For the grasses, the cow maintains their habitat by preventing trees and shrubs from gaining a foothold; the animal also spreads grass seed, planting it with its hoofs and fertilizing it. In exchange for these services, the grasses offer the ruminants a plentiful, exclusive meal. For cows, sheep and other grazers have the unique ability to convert grass -- which single-stomached creatures like us can't digest -- into high-quality protein. They can do this because they possess a rumen, a 45-gallon fermentation tank in which a resident population of bacteria turns grass into metabolically useful organic acids and protein. 
This is an excellent system for all concerned: for the grasses, for the animals and for us. What's more, growing meat on grass can make superb ecological sense: so long as the rancher practices rotational grazing, it is a sustainable, solar-powered system for producing food on land too arid or hilly to grow anything else.
So if this system is so ideal, why is it that my cow hasn't tasted a blade of grass since October? Speed, in a word. Cows raised on grass simply take longer to reach slaughter weight than cows raised on a richer diet, and the modern meat industry has devoted itself to shortening a beef calf's allotted time on earth. "In my grandfather's day, steers were 4 or 5 years old at slaughter," explained Rich Blair, who, at 45, is the younger of the brothers by four years. "In the 50's, when my father was ranching, it was 2 or 3. Now we get there at 14 to 16 months." Fast food indeed. What gets a beef calf from 80 to 1,200 pounds in 14 months are enormous quantities of corn, protein supplements -- and drugs, including growth hormones. These "efficiencies," all of which come at a price, have transformed raising cattle into a high-volume, low-margin business. Not everybody is convinced that this is progress. "Hell," Ed Blair told me, "my dad made more money on 250 head than we do on 850."
Weaning marks the fateful moment when the natural, evolutionary logic represented by a ruminant grazing on grass bumps up against the industrial logic that, with stunning speed, turns that animal into a box of beef. This industrial logic is rational and even irresistible -- after all, it has succeeded in transforming beef from a luxury item into everyday fare for millions of people. And yet the further you follow it, the more likely you are to wonder if that rational logic might not also be completely insane.
In early October, a few weeks before I met him, No. 534 was weaned from his mother. Weaning is perhaps the most traumatic time on a ranch for animals and ranchers alike; cows separated from their calves will mope and bellow for days, and the calves themselves, stressed by the change in circumstance and diet, are prone to get sick. 
On many ranches, weaned calves go directly from the pasture to the sale barn, where they're sold at auction, by the pound, to feedlots. The Blairs prefer to own their steers straight through to slaughter and to keep them on the ranch for a couple of months of "backgrounding" before sending them on the 500-mile trip to Poky Feeders. Think of backgrounding as prep school for feedlot life: the animals are confined in a pen, "bunk broken" -- taught to eat from a trough -- and gradually accustomed to eating a new, unnatural diet of grain. (Grazing cows encounter only tiny amounts of grain, in the form of grass seeds.)
It was in the backgrounding pen that I first met No. 534 on an unseasonably warm afternoon in November. I'd told the Blairs I wanted to follow one of their steers through the life cycle; Ed, 49, suggested I might as well buy a steer, as a way to really understand the daunting economics of modern ranching. Ed and Rich told me what to look for: a broad, straight back and thick hindquarters. Basically, you want a strong frame on which to hang a lot of meat. I was also looking for a memorable face in this Black Angus sea, one that would stand out in the feedlot crowd. Almost as soon as I started surveying the 90 or so steers in the pen, No. 534 moseyed up to the railing and made eye contact. He had a wide, stout frame and was brockle- faced -- he had three distinctive white blazes. If not for those markings, Ed said, No. 534 might have been spared castration and sold as a bull; he was that good-looking. But the white blazes indicate the presence of Hereford blood, rendering him ineligible for life as an Angus stud. Tough break.
Rich said he would calculate the total amount I owed the next time No. 534 got weighed but that the price would be $98 a hundredweight for an animal of this quality. He would then bill me for all expenses (feed, shots, et cetera) and, beginning in January, start passing on the weekly "hotel charges" from Poky Feeders. In June we'd find out from the packing plant how well my investment had panned out: I would receive a payment for No. 534 based on his carcass weight, plus a premium if he earned a U.S.D.A. grade of choice or prime. "And if you're worried about the cattle market," Rich said jokingly, referring to its post-Sept. 11 slide, "I can sell you an option too." Option insurance has become increasingly popular among cattlemen in the wake of mad-cow and foot-and-mouth disease. 
Rich handles the marketing end of the business out of an office in Sturgis, where he also trades commodities. In fact you'd never guess from Rich's unlined, indoorsy face and golfish attire that he was a rancher. Ed, by contrast, spends his days on the ranch and better looks the part, with his well-creased visage, crinkly cowboy eyes and ever-present plug of tobacco. His cap carries the same prairie-flat slogan I'd spotted on the ranch's roadside sign: "Beef: It's What's for Dinner."
My second morning on the ranch, I helped Troy Hadrick, Ed's son-in-law and a ranch hand, feed the steers in the backgrounding pen. A thickly muscled post of a man, Hadrick is 25 and wears a tall black cowboy hat perpetually crowned by a pair of mirrored Oakley sunglasses. He studied animal science at South Dakota State and is up on the latest university thinking on cattle nutrition, reproduction and medicine. Hadrick seems to relish everything to do with ranching, from calving to wielding the artificial-insemination syringe. 
Hadrick and I squeezed into the heated cab of a huge swivel-hipped tractor hooked up to a feed mixer: basically, a dump truck with a giant screw through the middle to blend ingredients. First stop was a hopper filled with Rumensin, a powerful antibiotic that No. 534 will consume with his feed every day for the rest of his life. Calves have no need of regular medication while on grass, but as soon as they're placed in the backgrounding pen, they're apt to get sick. Why? The stress of weaning is a factor, but the main culprit is the feed. The shift to a "hot ration" of grain can so disturb the cow's digestive process -- its rumen, in particular -- that it can kill the animal if not managed carefully and accompanied by antibiotics. 
After we'd scooped the ingredients into the hopper and turned on the mixer, Hadrick deftly sidled the tractor alongside the pen and flipped a switch to release a dusty tan stream of feed in a long, even line. No. 534 was one of the first animals to belly up to the rail for breakfast. He was heftier than his pen mates and, I decided, sparkier too. That morning, Hadrick and I gave each calf six pounds of corn mixed with seven pounds of ground alfalfa hay and a quarter-pound of Rumensin. Soon after my visit, this ration would be cranked up to 14 pounds of corn and 6 pounds of hay -- and added two and a half pounds every day to No. 534.
While I was on the ranch, I didn't talk to No. 534, pet him or otherwise try to form a connection. I also decided not to give him a name, even though my son proposed a pretty good one after seeing a snapshot. ("Night.") My intention, after all, is to send this animal to slaughter and then eat some of him. No. 534 is not a pet, and I certainly don't want to end up with an ox in my backyard because I suddenly got sentimental.
As fall turned into winter, Hadrick sent me regular e-mail messages apprising me of my steer's progress. On Nov. 13 he weighed 650 pounds; by Christmas he was up to 798, making him the seventh-heaviest steer in his pen, an achievement in which I, idiotically, took a measure of pride. Between Nov. 13 and Jan. 4, the day he boarded the truck for Kansas, No. 534 put away 706 pounds of corn and 336 pounds of alfalfa hay, bringing his total living expenses for that period to $61.13. I was into this deal now for $659.
Hadrick's e-mail updates grew chattier as time went on, cracking a window on the rancher's life and outlook. I was especially struck by his relationship to the animals, how it manages to be at once intimate and unsentimental. One day Hadrick is tenderly nursing a newborn at 3 a.m., the next he's "having a big prairie oyster feed" after castrating a pen of bull calves. 
Hadrick wrote empathetically about weaning ("It's like packing up and leaving the house when you are 18 and knowing you will never see your parents again") and with restrained indignation about "animal activists and city people" who don't understand the first thing about a rancher's relationship to his cattle. Which, as Hadrick put it, is simply this: "If we don't take care of these animals, they won't take care of us." 
"Everyone hears about the bad stuff," Hadrick wrote, "but they don't ever see you give C.P.R. to a newborn calf that was born backward or bringing them into your house and trying to warm them up on your kitchen floor because they were born on a minus-20-degree night. Those are the kinds of things ranchers will do for their livestock. They take precedence over most everything in your life. Sorry for the sermon."
To travel from the ranch to the feedlot, as No. 534 and I both did (in separate vehicles) the first week in January, feels a lot like going from the country to the big city. Indeed, a cattle feedlot is a kind of city, populated by as many as 100,000 animals. It is very much a premodern city, however -- crowded, filthy and stinking, with open sewers, unpaved roads and choking air. 
The urbanization of the world's livestock is a fairly recent historical development, so it makes a certain sense that cow towns like Poky Feeders would recall human cities several centuries ago. As in 14th-century London, the metropolitan digestion remains vividly on display: the foodstuffs coming in, the waste streaming out. Similarly, there is the crowding together of recent arrivals from who knows where, combined with a lack of modern sanitation. This combination has always been a recipe for disease; the only reason contemporary animal cities aren't as plague-ridden as their medieval counterparts is a single historical anomaly: the modern antibiotic. 
I spent the better part of a day walking around Poky Feeders, trying to understand how its various parts fit together. In any city, it's easy to lose track of nature -- of the connections between various species and the land on which everything ultimately depends. The feedlot's ecosystem, I could see, revolves around corn. But its food chain doesn't end there, because the corn itself grows somewhere else, where it is implicated in a whole other set of ecological relationships. Growing the vast quantities of corn used to feed livestock in this country takes vast quantities of chemical fertilizer, which in turn takes vast quantities of oil -- 1.2 gallons for every bushel. So the modern feedlot is really a city floating on a sea of oil. 
I started my tour at the feed mill, the yard's thundering hub, where three meals a day for 37,000 animals are designed and mixed by computer. A million pounds of feed passes through the mill each day. Every hour of every day, a tractor-trailer pulls up to disgorge another 25 tons of corn. Around the other side of the mill, tanker trucks back up to silo-shaped tanks, into which they pump thousands of gallons of liquefied fat and protein supplement. In a shed attached to the mill sit vats of liquid vitamins and synthetic estrogen; next to these are pallets stacked with 50-pound sacks of Rumensin and tylosin, another antibiotic. Along with alfalfa hay and corn silage for roughage, all these ingredients are blended and then piped into the dump trucks that keep Poky's eight and a half miles of trough filled. 
The feed mill's great din is made by two giant steel rollers turning against each other 12 hours a day, crushing steamed corn kernels into flakes. This was the only feed ingredient I tasted, and it wasn't half bad; not as crisp as Kellogg's, but with a cornier flavor. I passed, however, on the protein supplement, a sticky brown goop consisting of molasses and urea.
Corn is a mainstay of livestock diets because there is no other feed quite as cheap or plentiful: thanks to federal subsidies and ever-growing surpluses, the price of corn ($2.25 a bushel) is 50 cents less than the cost of growing it. The rise of the modern factory farm is a direct result of these surpluses, which soared in the years following World War II, when petrochemical fertilizers came into widespread use. Ever since, the U.S.D.A.'s policy has been to help farmers dispose of surplus corn by passing as much of it as possible through the digestive tracts of food animals, converting it into protein. Compared with grass or hay, corn is a compact and portable foodstuff, making it possible to feed tens of thousands of animals on small plots of land. Without cheap corn, the modern urbanization of livestock would probably never have occurred.
We have come to think of "cornfed" as some kind of old-fashioned virtue; we shouldn't. Granted, a cornfed cow develops well-marbled flesh, giving it a taste and texture American consumers have learned to like. Yet this meat is demonstrably less healthy to eat, since it contains more saturated fat. A recent study in The European Journal of Clinical Nutrition found that the meat of grass-fed livestock not only had substantially less fat than grain-fed meat but that the type of fats found in grass-fed meat were much healthier. (Grass-fed meat has more omega 3 fatty acids and fewer omega 6, which is believed to promote heart disease; it also contains betacarotine and CLA, another "good" fat.) A growing body of research suggests that many of the health problems associated with eating beef are really problems with cornfed beef. In the same way ruminants have not evolved to eat grain, humans may not be well adapted to eating grain-fed animals. Yet the U.S.D.A.'s grading system continues to reward marbling -- that is, intermuscular fat -- and thus the feeding of corn to cows.
The economic logic behind corn is unassailable, and on a factory farm, there is no other kind. Calories are calories, and corn is the cheapest, most convenient source of calories. Of course the identical industrial logic -- protein is protein -- led to the feeding of rendered cow parts back to cows, a practice the F.D.A. banned in 1997 after scientists realized it was spreading mad-cow disease.
Make that mostly banned. The F.D.A.'s rules against feeding ruminant protein to ruminants make exceptions for "blood products" (even though they contain protein) and fat. Indeed, my steer has probably dined on beef tallow recycled from the very slaughterhouse he's heading to in June. "Fat is fat," the feedlot manager shrugged when I raised an eyebrow. 
F.D.A. rules still permit feedlots to feed nonruminant animal protein to cows. (Feather meal is an accepted cattle feed, as are pig and fish protein and chicken manure.) Some public-health advocates worry that since the bovine meat and bone meal that cows used to eat is now being fed to chickens, pigs and fish, infectious prions could find their way back into cattle when they eat the protein of the animals that have been eating them. To close this biological loophole, the F.D.A. is now considering tightening its feed rules.
Until mad-cow disease, remarkably few people in the cattle business, let alone the general public, comprehended the strange semicircular food chain that industrial agriculture had devised for cattle (and, in turn, for us). When I mentioned to Rich Blair that I'd been surprised to learn that cows were eating cows, he said, "To tell the truth, it was kind of a shock to me too." Yet even today, ranchers don't ask many questions about feedlot menus. Not that the answers are so easy to come by. When I asked Poky's feedlot manager what exactly was in the protein supplement, he couldn't say. "When we buy supplement, the supplier says it's 40 percent protein, but they don't specify beyond that." When I called the supplier, it wouldn't divulge all its "proprietary ingredients" but promised that animal parts weren't among them. Protein is pretty much still protein.
Compared with ground-up cow bones, corn seems positively wholesome. Yet it wreaks considerable havoc on bovine digestion. During my day at Poky, I spent an hour or two driving around the yard with Dr. Mel Metzen, the staff veterinarian. Metzen, a 1997 graduate of Kansas State's vet school, oversees a team of eight cowboys who spend their days riding the yard, spotting sick cows and bringing them in for treatment. A great many of their health problems can be traced to their diet. "They're made to eat forage," Metzen said, "and we're making them eat grain."
Perhaps the most serious thing that can go wrong with a ruminant on corn is feedlot bloat. The rumen is always producing copious amounts of gas, which is normally expelled by belching during rumination. But when the diet contains too much starch and too little roughage, rumination all but stops, and a layer of foamy slime that can trap gas forms in the rumen. The rumen inflates like a balloon, pressing against the animal's lungs. Unless action is promptly taken to relieve the pressure (usually by forcing a hose down the animal's esophagus), the cow suffocates. 
A corn diet can also give a cow acidosis. Unlike that in our own highly acidic stomachs, the normal pH of a rumen is neutral. Corn makes it unnaturally acidic, however, causing a kind of bovine heartburn, which in some cases can kill the animal but usually just makes it sick. Acidotic animals go off their feed, pant and salivate excessively, paw at their bellies and eat dirt. The condition can lead to diarrhea, ulcers, bloat, liver disease and a general weakening of the immune system that leaves the animal vulnerable to everything from pneumonia to feedlot polio. 
Cows rarely live on feedlot diets for more than six months, which might be about as much as their digestive systems can tolerate. "I don't know how long you could feed this ration before you'd see problems," Metzen said; another vet said that a sustained feedlot diet would eventually "blow out their livers" and kill them. As the acids eat away at the rumen wall, bacteria enter the bloodstream and collect in the liver. More than 13 percent of feedlot cattle are found at slaughter to have abscessed livers.
What keeps a feedlot animal healthy -- or healthy enough -- are antibiotics. Rumensin inhibits gas production in the rumen, helping to prevent bloat; tylosin reduces the incidence of liver infection. Most of the antibiotics sold in America end up in animal feed -- a practice that, it is now generally acknowledged, leads directly to the evolution of new antibiotic-resistant "superbugs." In the debate over the use of antibiotics in agriculture, a distinction is usually made between clinical and nonclinical uses. Public-health advocates don't object to treating sick animals with antibiotics; they just don't want to see the drugs lose their efficacy because factory farms are feeding them to healthy animals to promote growth. But the use of antibiotics in feedlot cattle confounds this distinction. Here the drugs are plainly being used to treat sick animals, yet the animals probably wouldn't be sick if not for what we feed them. 
I asked Metzen what would happen if antibiotics were banned from cattle feed. "We just couldn't feed them as hard," he said. "Or we'd have a higher death loss." (Less than 3 percent of cattle die on the feedlot.) The price of beef would rise, he said, since the whole system would have to slow down. 
"Hell, if you gave them lots of grass and space," he concluded dryly, "I wouldn't have a job."
Before heading over to Pen 43 for my reunion with No. 534, I stopped by the shed where recent arrivals receive their hormone implants. The calves are funneled into a chute, herded along by a ranch hand wielding an electric prod, then clutched in a restrainer just long enough for another hand to inject a slow-release pellet of Revlar, a synthetic estrogen, in the back of the ear. The Blairs' pen had not yet been implanted, and I was still struggling with the decision of whether to forgo what is virtually a universal practice in the cattle industry in the United States. (It has been banned in the European Union.) 
American regulators permit hormone implants on the grounds that no risk to human health has been proved, even though measurable hormone residues do turn up in the meat we eat. These contribute to the buildup of estrogenic compounds in the environment, which some scientists believe may explain falling sperm counts and premature maturation in girls. Recent studies have also found elevated levels of synthetic growth hormones in feedlot wastes; these persistent chemicals eventually wind up in the waterways downstream of feedlots, where scientists have found fish exhibiting abnormal sex characteristics. 
The F.D.A. is opening an inquiry into the problem, but for now, implanting hormones in beef cattle is legal and financially irresistible: an implant costs $1.50 and adds between 40 and 50 pounds to the weight of a steer at slaughter, for a return of at least $25. That could easily make the difference between profit and loss on my investment in No. 534. Thinking like a parent, I like the idea of feeding my son hamburgers free of synthetic hormones. But thinking like a cattleman, there was really no decision to make. 
I asked Rich Blair what he thought. "I'd love to give up hormones," he said. "If the consumer said, We don't want hormones, we'd stop in a second. The cattle could get along better without them. But the market signal's not there, and as long as my competitor's doing it, I've got to do it, too."
Around lunch time, Metzen and I finally arrived at No. 534's pen. My first impression was that my steer had landed himself a decent piece of real estate. The pen is far enough from the feed mill to be fairly quiet, and it has a water view -- of what I initially thought was a reservoir, until I noticed the brown scum. The pen itself is surprisingly spacious, slightly bigger than a basketball court, with a concrete feed bunk out front and a freshwater trough in the back. I climbed over the railing and joined the 90 steers, which, en masse, retreated a few steps, then paused. 
I had on the same carrot-colored sweater I'd worn to the ranch in South Dakota, hoping to jog my steer's memory. Way off in the back, I spotted him -- those three white blazes. As I gingerly stepped toward him, the quietly shuffling mass of black cowhide between us parted, and there No. 534 and I stood, staring dumbly at each other. Glint of recognition? None whatsoever. I told myself not to take it personally. No. 534 had been bred for his marbling, after all, not his intellect. 
I don't know enough about the emotional life of cows to say with any confidence if No. 534 was miserable, bored or melancholy, but I would not say he looked happy. I noticed that his eyes looked a little bloodshot. Some animals are irritated by the fecal dust that floats in the feedlot air; maybe that explained the sullen gaze with which he fixed me. Unhappy or not, though, No. 534 had clearly been eating well. My animal had put on a couple hundred pounds since we'd last met, and he looked it: thicker across the shoulders and round as a barrel through the middle. He carried himself more like a steer now than a calf, even though he was still less than a year old. Metzen complimented me on his size and conformation. "That's a handsome looking beef you've got there." (Aw, shucks.) 
Staring at No. 534, I could picture the white lines of the butcher's chart dissecting his black hide: rump roast, flank steak, standing rib, brisket. One way of looking at No. 534 -- the industrial way -- was as an efficient machine for turning feed corn into beef. Every day between now and his slaughter date in June, No. 534 will convert 32 pounds of feed (25 of them corn) into another three and a half pounds of flesh. Poky is indeed a factory, transforming cheap raw materials into a less-cheap finished product, as fast as bovinely possible.
Yet the factory metaphor obscures as much as it reveals about the creature that stood before me. For this steer was not a machine in a factory but an animal in a web of relationships that link him to certain other animals, plants and microbes, as well as to the earth. And one of those other animals is us. The unnaturally rich diet of corn that has compromised No. 534's health is fattening his flesh in a way that in turn may compromise the health of the humans who will eat him. The antibiotics he's consuming with his corn were at that very moment selecting, in his gut and wherever else in the environment they wind up, for bacteria that could someday infect us and resist the drugs we depend on. We inhabit the same microbial ecosystem as the animals we eat, and whatever happens to it also happens to us. 
I thought about the deep pile of manure that No. 534 and I were standing in. We don't know much about the hormones in it -- where they will end up or what they might do once they get there -- but we do know something about the bacteria. One particularly lethal bug most probably resided in the manure beneath my feet. Escherichia coli 0157 is a relatively new strain of a common intestinal bacteria (it was first isolated in the 1980's) that is common in feedlot cattle, more than half of whom carry it in their guts. Ingesting as few as 10 of these microbes can cause a fatal infection.
Most of the microbes that reside in the gut of a cow and find their way into our food get killed off by the acids in our stomachs, since they originally adapted to live in a neutral-pH environment. But the digestive tract of the modern feedlot cow is closer in acidity to our own, and in this new, manmade environment acid-resistant strains of E. coli have developed that can survive our stomach acids -- and go on to kill us. By acidifying a cow's gut with corn, we have broken down one of our food chain's barriers to infection. Yet this process can be reversed: James Russell, a U.S.D.A. microbiologist, has discovered that switching a cow's diet from corn to hay in the final days before slaughter reduces the population of E. coli 0157 in its manure by as much as 70 percent. Such a change, however, is considered wildly impractical by the cattle industry.
So much comes back to corn, this cheap feed that turns out in so many ways to be not cheap at all. While I stood in No. 534's pen, a dump truck pulled up alongside the feed bunk and released a golden stream of feed. The animals stepped up to the bunk for their lunch. The $1.60 a day I'm paying for three giant meals is a bargain only by the narrowest of calculations. It doesn't take into account, for example, the cost to the public health of antibiotic resistance or food poisoning by E. coli or all the environmental costs associated with industrial corn. 
For if you follow the corn from this bunk back to the fields where it grows, you will find an 80-million-acre monoculture that consumes more chemical herbicide and fertilizer than any other crop. Keep going and you can trace the nitrogen runoff from that crop all the way down the Mississippi into the Gulf of Mexico, where it has created (if that is the right word) a 12,000-square-mile "dead zone." 
But you can go farther still, and follow the fertilizer needed to grow that corn all the way to the oil fields of the Persian Gulf. No. 534 started life as part of a food chain that derived all its energy from the sun; now that corn constitutes such an important link in his food chain, he is the product of an industrial system powered by fossil fuel. (And in turn, defended by the military -- another uncounted cost of "cheap" food.) I asked David Pimentel, a Cornell ecologist who specializes in agriculture and energy, if it might be possible to calculate precisely how much oil it will take to grow my steer to slaughter weight. Assuming No. 534 continues to eat 25 pounds of corn a day and reaches a weight of 1,250 pounds, he will have consumed in his lifetime roughly 284 gallons of oil. We have succeeded in industrializing the beef calf, transforming what was once a solar-powered ruminant into the very last thing we need: another fossil-fuel machine.
Sometime in June, No. 534 will be ready for slaughter. Though only 14 months old, my steer will weigh more than 1,200 pounds and will move with the lumbering deliberateness of the obese. One morning, a cattle trailer from the National Beef plant in Liberal, Kan., will pull in to Poky Feeders, drop a ramp and load No. 534 along with 35 of his pen mates. 
The 100-mile trip south to Liberal is a straight shot on Route 83, a two-lane highway on which most of the traffic consists of speeding tractor-trailers carrying either cattle or corn. The National Beef plant is a sprawling gray-and-white complex in a neighborhood of trailer homes and tiny houses a notch up from shanty. These are, presumably, the homes of the Mexican and Asian immigrants who make up a large portion of the plant's work force. The meat business has made southwestern Kansas an unexpectedly diverse corner of the country.
A few hours after their arrival in the holding pens outside the factory, a plant worker will open a gate and herd No. 534 and his pen mates into an alley that makes a couple of turns before narrowing down to a single-file chute. The chute becomes a ramp that leads the animals up to a second-story platform and then disappears through a blue door. 
That door is as close to the kill floor as the plant managers were prepared to let me go. I could see whatever I wanted to farther on -- the cold room where carcasses are graded, the food-safety lab, the fabrication room where the carcasses are broken down into cuts -- on the condition that I didn't take pictures or talk to employees. But the stunning, bleeding and evisceration process was off limits to a journalist, even a cattleman-journalist like myself. 
What I know about what happens on the far side of the blue door comes mostly from Temple Grandin, who has been on the other side and, in fact, helped to design it. Grandin, an assistant professor of animal science at Colorado State, is one of the most influential people in the United States cattle industry. She has devoted herself to making cattle slaughter less stressful and therefore more humane by designing an ingenious series of cattle restraints, chutes, ramps and stunning systems. Grandin is autistic, a condition she says has allowed her to see the world from the cow's point of view. The industry has embraced Grandin's work because animals under stress are not only more difficult to handle but also less valuable: panicked cows produce a surge of adrenaline that turns their meat dark and unappetizing. "Dark cutters," as they're called, sell at a deep discount.
Grandin designed the double-rail conveyor system in use at the National Beef plant; she has also audited the plant's killing process for McDonald's. Stories about cattle "waking up" after stunning only to be skinned alive prompted McDonald's to audit its suppliers in a program that is credited with substantial improvements since its inception in 1999. Grandin says that in cattle slaughter "there is the pre-McDonald's era and the post-McDonald's era -- it's night and day." 
Grandin recently described to me what will happen to No. 534 after he passes through the blue door. "The animal goes into the chute single file," she began. "The sides are high enough so all he sees is the butt of the animal in front of him. As he walks through the chute, he passes over a metal bar, with his feet on either side. While he's straddling the bar, the ramp begins to decline at a 25-degree angle, and before he knows it, his feet are off the ground and he's being carried along on a conveyor belt. We put in a false floor so he can't look down and see he's off the ground. That would panic him." 
Listening to Grandin's rather clinical account, I couldn't help wondering what No. 534 would be feeling as he approached his end. Would he have any inkling -- a scent of blood, a sound of terror from up the line -- that this was no ordinary day? 
Grandin anticipated my question: "Does the animal know it's going to get slaughtered? I used to wonder that. So I watched them, going into the squeeze chute on the feedlot, getting their shots and going up the ramp at a slaughter plant. No difference. If they knew they were going to die, you'd see much more agitated behavior. 
"Anyway, the conveyor is moving along at roughly the speed of a moving sidewalk. On a catwalk above stands the stunner. The stunner has a pneumatic-powered 'gun' that fires a steel bolt about seven inches long and the diameter of a fat pencil. He leans over and puts it smack in the middle of the forehead. When it's done correctly, it will kill the animal on the first shot." 
For a plant to pass a McDonald's audit, the stunner needs to render animals "insensible" on the first shot 95 percent of the time. A second shot is allowed, but should that one fail, the plant flunks. At the line speeds at which meatpacking plants in the United States operate -- 390 animals are slaughtered every hour at National, which is not unusual -- mistakes would seem inevitable, but Grandin insists that only rarely does the process break down. 
"After the animal is shot while he's riding along, a worker wraps a chain around his foot and hooks it to an overhead trolley. Hanging upside down by one leg, he's carried by the trolley into the bleeding area, where the bleeder cuts his throat. Animal rights people say they're cutting live animals, but that's because there's a lot of reflex kicking." This is one of the reasons a job at a slaughter plant is the most dangerous in America. "What I look for is, Is the head dead? It should be flopping like a rag, with the tongue hanging out. He'd better not be trying to hold it up -- then you've got a live one on the rail." Just in case, Grandin said, "they have another hand stunner in the bleed area." 
Much of what happens next -- the de-hiding of the animal, the tying off of its rectum before evisceration -- is designed to keep the animal's feces from coming into contact with its meat. This is by no means easy to do, not when the animals enter the kill floor smeared with manure and 390 of them are eviscerated every hour. (Partly for this reason, European plants operate at much slower line speeds.) But since that manure is apt to contain lethal pathogens like E. coli 0157, and since the process of grinding together hamburger from hundreds of different carcasses can easily spread those pathogens across millions of burgers, packing plants now spend millions on "food safety" -- which is to say, on the problem of manure in meat.
Most of these efforts are reactive: it's accepted that the animals will enter the kill floor caked with feedlot manure that has been rendered lethal by the feedlot diet. Rather than try to alter that diet or keep the animals from living in their waste or slow the line speed -- all changes regarded as impractical -- the industry focuses on disinfecting the manure that will inevitably find its way into the meat. This is the purpose of irradiation (which the industry prefers to call "cold pasteurization"). It is also the reason that carcasses pass through a hot steam cabinet and get sprayed with an antimicrobial solution before being hung in the cooler at the National Beef plant. 
It wasn't until after the carcasses emerged from the cooler, 36 hours later, that I was allowed to catch up with them, in the grading room. I entered a huge arctic space resembling a monstrous dry cleaner's, with a seemingly endless overhead track conveying thousands of red-and-white carcasses. I quickly learned that you had to move smartly through this room or else be tackled by a 350-pound side of beef. The carcasses felt cool to the touch, no longer animals but meat.
Two by two, the sides of beef traveled swiftly down the rails, six pairs every minute, to a station where two workers -- one wielding a small power saw, the other a long knife -- made a single six-inch cut between the 12th and 13th ribs, opening a window on the meat inside. The carcasses continued on to another station, where a U.S.D.A. inspector holding a round blue stamp glanced at the exposed rib eye and stamped the carcass's creamy white fat once, twice or -- very rarely -- three times: select, choice, prime. 
For the Blair brothers, and for me, this is the moment of truth, for that stamp will determine exactly how much the packing plant will pay for each animal and whether the 14 months of effort and expense will yield a profit. 
Unless the cattle market collapses between now and June (always a worry these days), I stand to make a modest profit on No. 534. In February, the feedlot took a sonogram of his rib eye and ran the data through a computer program. The projections are encouraging: a live slaughter weight of 1,250, a carcass weight of 787 pounds and a grade at the upper end of choice, making him eligible to be sold at a premium as Certified Angus Beef. Based on the June futures price, No. 534 should be worth $944. (Should he grade prime, that would add another $75.) 
I paid $598 for No. 534 in November; his living expenses since then come to $61 on the ranch and $258 for 160 days at the feedlot (including implant), for a total investment of $917, leaving a profit of $27. It's a razor-thin margin, and it could easily vanish should the price of corn rise or No. 534 fail to make the predicted weight or grade -- say, if he gets sick and goes off his feed. Without the corn, without the antibiotics, without the hormone implant, my brief career as a cattleman would end in failure.
The Blairs and I are doing better than most. According to Cattle-Fax, a market-research firm, the return on an animal coming out of a feedlot has averaged just $3 per head over the last 20 years. 
"Some pens you make money, some pens you lose," Rich Blair said when I called to commiserate. "You try to average it out over time, limit the losses and hopefully make a little profit." He reminded me that a lot of ranchers are in the business "for emotional reasons -- you can't be in it just for the money." 
Now you tell me.
The manager of the packing plant has offered to pull a box of steaks from No. 534 before his carcass disappears into the trackless stream of commodity beef fanning out to America's supermarkets and restaurants this June. From what I can see, the Blair brothers, with the help of Poky Feeders, are producing meat as good as any you can find in an American supermarket. And yet there's no reason to think this steak will taste any different from the other high-end industrial meat I've ever eaten. 
While waiting for my box of meat to arrive from Kansas, I've explored some alternatives to the industrial product. Nowadays you can find hormone- and antibiotic-free beef as well as organic beef, fed only grain grown without chemicals. This meat, which is often quite good, is typically produced using more grass and less grain (and so makes for healthier animals). Yet it doesn't fundamentally challenge the corn-feedlot system, and I'm not sure that an "organic feedlot" isn't, ecologically speaking, an oxymoron. What I really wanted to taste is the sort of preindustrial beef my grandparents ate -- from animals that have lived most of their full-length lives on grass. 
Eventually I found a farmer in the Hudson Valley who sold me a quarter of a grass-fed Angus steer that is now occupying most of my freezer. I also found ranchers selling grass-fed beef on the Web; Eatwild.com is a clearinghouse of information on grass-fed livestock, which is emerging as one of the livelier movements in sustainable agriculture. 
I discovered that grass-fed meat is more expensive than supermarket beef. Whatever else you can say about industrial beef, it is remarkably cheap, and any argument for changing the system runs smack into the industry's populist arguments. Put the animals back on grass, it is said, and prices will soar; it takes too long to raise beef on grass, and there's not enough grass to raise them on, since the Western range lands aren't big enough to sustain America's 100 million head of cattle. And besides, Americans have learned to love cornfed beef. Feedlot meat is also more consistent in both taste and supply and can be harvested 12 months a year. (Grass-fed cattle tend to be harvested in the fall, since they stop gaining weight over the winter, when the grasses go dormant.) 
All of this is true. The economic logic behind the feedlot system is hard to refute. And yet so is the ecological logic behind a ruminant grazing on grass. Think what would happen if we restored a portion of the Corn Belt to the tall grass prairie it once was and grazed cattle on it. No more petrochemical fertilizer, no more herbicide, no more nitrogen runoff. Yes, beef would probably be more expensive than it is now, but would that necessarily be a bad thing? Eating beef every day might not be such a smart idea anyway -- for our health, for the environment. And how cheap, really, is cheap feedlot beef? Not cheap at all, when you add in the invisible costs: of antibiotic resistance, environmental degradation, heart disease, E. coli poisoning, corn subsidies, imported oil and so on. All these are costs that grass-fed beef does not incur.
So how does grass-fed beef taste? Uneven, just as you might expect the meat of a nonindustrial animal to taste. One grass-fed tenderloin from Argentina that I sampled turned out to be the best steak I've ever eaten. But unless the meat is carefully aged, grass-fed beef can be tougher than feedlot beef -- not surprisingly, since a grazing animal, which moves around in search of its food, develops more muscle and less fat. Yet even when the meat was tougher, its flavor, to my mind, was much more interesting. And specific, for the taste of every grass-fed animal is inflected by the place where it lived. Maybe it's just my imagination, but nowadays when I eat a feedlot steak, I can taste the corn and the fat, and I can see the view from No. 534's pen. I can't taste the oil, obviously, or the drugs, yet now I know they're there. 
A considerably different picture comes to mind while chewing (and, O.K., chewing) a grass-fed steak: a picture of a cow outside in a pasture eating the grass that has eaten the sunlight. Meat-eating may have become an act riddled with moral and ethical ambiguities, but eating a steak at the end of a short, primordial food chain comprising nothing more than ruminants and grass and light is something I'm happy to do and defend. We are what we eat, it is often said, but of course that's only part of the story. We are what what we eat eats too. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Poky Feeders (aka steer city), population 37,000.; Britton Blair (Rich's son), Troy Hadrick and Ed and Rich Blair at Blair Brothers Ranch in Vale, S.D.; The author's Black Angus steer in his South Dakota youth. (Marcus Mam for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATTLE FEEDLOTS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (78%); BEEF (78%); MEATS (78%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (69%); LIVESTOCK FEED MFG (65%); E COLI (64%); BACTERIA (61%); ANTIBIOTICS (60%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (60%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



776 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: When Cool Is Not Enough 

BYLINE:  By TERRY TRUCCO; TERRY TRUCCO writes frequently for the Travel section.

 BODY:
BOUTIQUE hotels were among the glittering successes of the 1990's. They flouted the hotel-world rules, dressing up small, often oddly shaped rooms with high-tech gadgets and high-concept design, and wooed guests with the downstairs as much or more than the upstairs -- the hip bar, the spare but glamorous lobby and, it was hoped, the cool crowd. The approach worked. In general, boutique hotels charge steeper rates and have enjoyed higher occupancy levels than traditional hotels, particularly on weekends, according to Bjorn Hanson, a managing partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting company.
 But the hotel industry has changed in recent months. Travel dropped sharply following the September terrorist attacks, and the recession has kept a full recovery at bay. And the mood among travelers, especially those doing business, is more conservative than a year ago. 
 "When the economy was booming, people were looking to spend money," Mr. Hanson said. "But now it's out of sync to spend on showy hotels."
Since the fall, guests have shown a preference for proven hotels, whether traditional or boutique, where they can feel safe and secure and experience no unwanted surprises, said Richard L. Brush, dean of The Hospitality College at Johnson & Wales University in Providence, R.I. The boutique hotels with loyal clienteles, established reputations and familiar names are doing well, although most are charging less for a room than a year ago, industry observers say. But many newcomers are having a hard time, particularly independent hotels in odd locations and with strange room configurations.
"I would have been scared opening a new hotel right now in some of the locations in Manhattan," said Barry Sternlicht, chairman and chief executive officer of Starwood Hotels and Resorts and founder of W Hotels, which opened the W Times Square, a 509-room hotel in the heart of New York's bustling theater and business district, in December. Indeed, the situation of boutique hotels is a particular question mark in New York, where more than a dozen have opened in the last year and a half, many with boldly untraditional locales and designs.
Many of these new hotels were struggling last summer, Mr. Hanson said, "and with rates down and occupancies down, as many as a dozen will fail." Guests may not realize a hotel has failed, since lenders rarely choose to publicize a foreclosure and allow new management to take over quietly.
Because boutique hotels are so individual, some owners have experienced wild fluctuations between properties. "The Mercer has a special clientele and is back to where rates and occupancy levels were," said Ira Drukier, a real estate developer and hotelier whose chic Soho property, at Mercer and Prince, is a favorite with fashion designers and movie stars. But Chambers, his new 77-room luxury boutique at 15 West 56th Street, has had a more difficult time. "We had just opened and had not had time to establish who we are," he said.
Most boutiques, by definition, belong to the hotel category hit hardest by the soft economy -- upscale hotels in large cities. In January, room revenues at luxury hotels in the United States dropped 15.2 percent from the previous year, according to Smith Travel Research, a company that tracks hotel industry performance. Revenues at economy hotels, in contrast, declined 7 percent.
Boutique hotels are particularly vulnerable to drops in room rates because they tend to have higher operating costs than traditional hotels. Maintaining a designer property with a stylish bar and restaurant and a high level of service adds up.
"Occupancy is back, but we've lost money on rates," said Emanuel Stern, co-owner with Leonard Stern of the Soho Grand, on West Broadway between Grand and Canal, and the Tribeca Grand, on Sixth Avenue at Church, Walker and White Streets. While guests may cheer, many hoteliers are concerned that the robust rates charged in 2000, an excellent year for the industry, may not come back for several years.
Indeed, guests have become more budget conscious. Since October, occupancy levels have been well above the city's average at most hotels in the Amsterdam Hospitality Group, in Manhattan. Its five small hotels, which include the Bentley, on 62nd Street at the East River, and the Moderne, on 55th Street between Eighth Avenue and Broadway, are less costly than most boutiques. In January and February, occupancy at the hotels was up 13 percent over 2001, while room rates, averaging $170 a night, declined 7 percent. "The market is coming back, but it's changed from last year," said George Dfouni, chief executive officer for the group.
Cutbacks in high-profile industries, like advertising and high technology, have also had an impact on the boutiques. "We need to rebuild some of our market base," Mr. Sternlicht said. Instead of spending heavily on advertising for the new W Times Square, the company went after business at the cluster of corporations in high rises surrounding the new hotel.
Smart restaurants and bars that attract local people have been a boon for many boutiques, helping offset lower room rates. "But they don't compensate entirely for the loss of room revenues, which are the sweet part of the hotel industry," said the hotelier Ian Schrager, whose boutique hotel properties include the Hudson in New York and the Clift in San Francisco.
But no one expects the boutiques to morph into traditional hotels as the world moves away from the prosperous 90's. "There might be a change in emphasis, with these hotels marketing themselves as more intimate, quiet and private, but there won't be a change in style," Mr. Hanson said. Indeed, D.J.'s still pump up the volume and bring in the crowd at the lounges of the Soho and Tribeca Grand. And guests at the Hudson still shoot pool in the Library into the wee hours. "People may be concerned about appearing more tasteful, but I think everything is going back to where it was," Mr. Schrager said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Tribeca Grand has a small piece of Manhattan all to itself. Chambers, a luxury boutique hotel in Midtown. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); In the Whiskey, a bar at the W Times Square. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); LODGING (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); FASHION DESIGNERS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RESORTS (73%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); FASHION DESIGN (72%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); FORECLOSURE (64%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (63%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (62%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%); TERRORISM (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (53%)

TICKER: HOT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



777 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1862 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN; 
Amsterdam

BYLINE:  By CORINNE LaBALME; CORINNE LaBALME writes about cultural events in Europe.

 BODY:
Expect more than tulips when the premier garden exhibition in the Netherlands, Floriade 2002, opens on Saturday on the Haarlemmermeer polder three miles west of Amsterdam's airport. This lavish horticultural extravaganza, held once every 10 years, incorporates flowers, fruit trees, prize vegetables, ornamental shrubbery and national gardens from more than 30 countries, including France, Bulgaria, Egypt, Thailand, Chile, Kenya, China and the United States. 
 The Netherlands is still basking in a honeymoon glow created by the glamorous wedding of Prince Willem-Alexander and his Argentine-born bride, Princess Maxima, in February. Wedding souvenirs are the top collectibles, and the mood in Amsterdam, always oriented toward parties and fun when the weather gets warmer, promises to be more romantic than usual this spring. 
 Amsterdam is one of the most cosmopolitan cities in Europe. Its pioneering sailors and traders brought Indonesian cuisine, Japanese silks and Chinese porcelain to Northern Europe, and these exotic items were eagerly assimilated into Dutch culture. This year the Netherlands commemorates the 400th anniversary of the Dutch East India Company, one of the largest commercial enterprises of the 17th and 18th centuries. A reproduction of the Duyfken (Little Dove), the vessel that, in 1606, made the first map of the north coast of Australia, was built in Australia for the anniversary and will be docked in Amsterdam's harbor from May 2 to 7. Free admission. 
 This spring would also be a good time to visit two major arts landmarks. The Stedelijk Museum of Modern Art will close in late 2002 for a 30-month renovation and addition, although part of the collection should be on view in an undetermined location. The Rijksmuseum, with the city's trove of Rembrandt and Vermeer paintings, will be partly closed for renovation from autumn 2003.

Events
 Floriade occupies a 160-acre fairground that encompasses a lake, adorned with 150 varieties of water lily, and the 19th-century Geniedijk defense wall. To provide panoramic views for the three million visitors expected, landscape architects have built a 130-foot grass-covered hill whose base has the same dimensions as the Pyramid of Cheops in Egypt. Floriade 2002 is open daily from Saturday through Oct. 20 from 9:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. Information: Netherlands Tourist Board, (888) 464-6552 or www.floriade.com 
 Through Oct. 27, the Amsterdam Maritime Museum, Kattenburgerplein 1, Oosterdok, (31-20) 523-2222, www.scheepvaartmuseum, celebrates the Dutch East India Company with an exposition that focuses on the trade with China and India that brought chintz fabric and tea to Holland. Admission: $6. Closed Monday except July to September. Through Sept. 15, a companion show at Rotterdam's Maritime Museum, www .maritiemmuseum.nl, details the commerce with Japan, Ceylon and Indonesia that brought cinnamon and kimonos to the Dutch middle class. Admission $6. 
 The Van Gogh Museum, Paulus Potterstraat 7, (31-20) 570-5200, www .vangoghgauguin.nl, presents "Van Gogh and Gauguin" through June 2. The blockbuster show, which originated at the Art Institute of Chicago, concentrates on the autumn of 1888, when the two volatile artists worked on sunflower paintings in Arles. Open daily. Advance sales, (800) 669-8687, fax (212) 302-4251. A limited number of tickets are on sale at the museum. General admission, $11. 
 On Queen's Day, April 30, the Dutch celebrate by raiding their attics and setting up impromptu flea-market stalls all over town. Many Amsterdam cafes inaugurate the festivities with street parties the night before. 
 On May 3, 5 and 6, Jiri Kylian's Nederlands Dans Theater performs at the 1,600-seat Muziektheater, Amstel 3, (31-20) 625-5455, fax (31-20) 551-8025. The program includes Kylian's 1982 ballet set to Mahler's "Lieder Eines Fahrenden Gesellen" and new works by the house choreographers Paul Lightfoot and Hans van Manen. Tickets: $14.65 to $25.80. 
 Through Sept. 8, the Jewish Historical Museum, J. D. Meijerplein 2-4, (31-20) 626-9945, www.jhm.nl, showcases the vibrant gouache paintings of Charlotte Salomon, the Berlin-born artist who died at Auschwitz in 1943. The autobiographical series, 769 paintings in all, begins with her 1920's bohemian childhood. Open daily. Admission $4.30.
 The soprano Dawn Upshaw sings Purcell, Druckman and Bach on May 24 at the Concertgebouw, Concertgebouwplein 2-6; (31-20) 671-8345, fax (31-20) 573-0460, www.concertgebouw.nl. Tickets: $26 to $29. People with tickets to the bargain-priced Sunday morning recitals ($10.35) can take a backstage tour, in Dutch with an English translation, before the concert ($3).

Sightseeing
 During the 17th and 18th centuries, property on the Herengracht became lined with exclusive real estate. Many of the mansions on this canal have been converted into intimate museums that provide tantalizing glimpses into the domestic life of the Golden Age.
 While the elegant satin upholstery and gilded chandeliers in the Willet Holthuysen Museum, Herengracht 605, (31-20) 523-1822, www.ahm.nl, are French rococo, the house itself dates from 1685. Bequeathed to the city in 1895, this merchant's residence -- with kitchen, salon, bedrooms, ballroom and garden -- is the only fully furnished Amsterdam town house open to the public daily. Admission $3.50. 
 Rembrandt's "Madonna With Cat" etching and 19th-century Japanese netsuke highlight the feline-oriented art and artifacts at the eccentric Kattenkabinet (Cat Gallery), in a well-worn 17th-century town house at 497 Herengracht; (31- 20) 626-5378, www .kattenkabinet.nl. It was founded in 1990 by one Bob Meijer in honor of his beloved tomcat John Pierpont Morgan. Watch out for the litter boxes -- five well-fed cats reside on the premises. They can often be found dozing beneath cat portraits signed by Picasso and Theophile Steinlen. Open daily; admission $3.90. 
 The oldest Bible printed in the Netherlands, dated 1477, is on view at the Bible (Bijbels) Museum, Herengracht 366-368, (31-20) 624-2436; www.bijbelsmuseum.nl. The museum also houses Egyptian antiquities, but anyone whose eyes turn upward will be dazzled by the profane splendor of seminude goddesses and pagan astrological symbols adorning the ceiling murals painted by the 18th-century artist Jacob de Wit. Open daily; admission $4.30.

Where to Stay
 In the museum district near Vondel Park, the Prinsen Hotel, Vondelstraat 36-38, (31-20) 616-2323, fax (31-20) 616-6112, www.prinsenhotel.demon.nl, merges two white-trimmed town houses built around 1870 by P. J. H. Cuijpers, who also designed the Rijksmuseum and Amsterdam's neo-Renaissance Central Station. All 45 rooms have color television, safes and bathrooms with hair dryers. Doubles $98 to $108. 
 Near the 17th-century Amstelkerk church, the Amsterdam Prinsengracht Hotel, Prinsengracht 1015, (31-20) 623-7779, fax (31-20) 623-8926, www.prinsengrachthotel.nl, has 33 comfortable rooms overlooking either the canal or a private garden. The views add a great deal of charm, since the pristine, modern rooms are decorated with Dutch economy. For more privacy, four people can share a two-bedroom bungalow in the garden for $142. Doubles $90 to $116. 
 Budget: Only five minutes' walk from the night life on the bustling Leidseplein, the friendly Euphemia Hotel, Fokke Simonszstraat 1-9, telephone and fax (31-20) 622-9045, fax (31-21) 638-9673 www.euphemia hotel.com, has 30 no-frills rooms that preserve the atmosphere of its former incarnation as a monastery. The building has steep stairs (and no elevator), so guests may want to request rooms on the lower floors. Price per room: $65 to $120. 
 Luxury: The Dutch royal family booked all 468 rooms at the Hotel Krasnapolsky, Dam 9, (31-20) 554-9111, fax (31-20) 622-8607, www.krasnapolsky.nl, for Prince Willem Alexander's wedding guests. The room decor is subdued and businesslike but this sprawling hotel, often described as a self-contained village with a private landing dock for canal boats, has a fitness center, beauty salon and a variety of restaurants. The 19th-century glass-roofed Winter Garden, which serves a popular $28 jazz brunch on Sunday, is one of the most flamboyant dining rooms in town. Doubles from $250. 
 The most stylish transport in Amsterdam is a shiny black bicycle with a license plate from the super-chic Blakes Hotel, Keizersgracht 384, (31-20) 530-2010, fax (31-20) 530-2030, www.blakeshotels.com. The jet-set innkeeper Anouska Hempel remodeled its four 17th-century buildings in 1999. Basic black sets the style in the lobby, bar, restaurant and even the courtyard garden. The 25 elegant rooms may mix old-fashioned herringbone-brick floors or cathedral ceilings with bold textiles and mahogany screens. Doubles $300 to $388.

Where to Eat
 Visitors can snack on a cheese broodje sandwich ($2) or vegetarian lasagna ($9.40) at the stylish Cafe De Jaren, Nieuwe Doelenstraat 20-22, (31-20) 625-5771, fax (31-20) 624-0801, a Tribeca-style duplex restaurant with a panoramic patio where the scenic Kloveniersburgwal canal meets the Amstel in the Old Center. A formal dinner of grilled salmon in the fancier dining room costs $56 for two, with a bottle of Italian Soave. Open daily 10 a.m. to 1 a.m. 
 Moko, Amstelveld 12, (31-20) 626-1199, fax (31-20) 626-6059, a trendy bar and restaurant with a vast canal-side terrace, opened last year in the former stable wing of Amsterdam's only wooden church, the 17th-century Amstelkerk, which is still a house of worship. The steamed sea bass is served in yellow curry and lime sauce, and the tamari beef with shiitake mushrooms, daikon and Hawaiian pesto. From Wednesday to Saturday nights, DJ's spin a seductive lounge beat. Dinner for two with wine, $78. Open daily for lunch and dinner. 
 Amsterdam's only surviving city gate, built in 1488, today houses In De Waag, Nieuwmarkt 4, (31-20) 422-7772, fax (31-20) 422-8641, a low-key cafe with free Internet access. The medieval interior is so murky that candles are needed at noon. The dinner menu includes lentil soup ($5.60) and a beef filet platter ($18), but this is mainly a lunch stop. Dutch ham sandwiches, apple pie and organic fruit juice for two, $15. Open daily for lunch and dinner. 
 The 10-table Tujuh Maret, Utrechtsestraat 73, telephone and fax (31-20) 427-9865, specializes in flavor-intensive Indonesian recipes like coriander-lemongrass beef from the Minahasa region of Sulawesi island. An order of rijsttafel (rice table) allows diners to sample small portions of 23 specialties. Rijsttafel for two, with Indonesian Bintang beer and mango sherbet: $45. Dinner only; closed Monday; no credit cards.
 "Fancy" usually means French in the Netherlands, and the Grand Hotel's glossy Cafe Roux, Oudezijds Voorburgwal 197, (31-20) 555-3111, fax (31-20) 555-3222, is supervised by Albert Roux, the chef who created Le Gavroche in London. In a sleek Art Deco wing of a former 15th-century convent, Cafe Roux serves a three-course, $37 dinner (including wine) that may feature truffled foie gras and tender roast brill with parsnip puree. The Bordeaux selection is awe-inspiring. Dinner for two with a modest wine, about $85. Open daily for lunch and dinner.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bridge over the Keizersgracht. The hill built to provide views of the Floriade, held every 10 years. At the Kattenkabinet, art and artifacts about cats. (Photographs by Herman Wouters/Hollandse Hoogte, for The New York Times) Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Amsterdam. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Netherlands Board of Tourism, Fodor's World Weather Guide, local businesses.) Map of Amsterdam, Holland

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORTICULTURE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING (78%); GARDENING (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (61%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: LABALME, CORINNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (96%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%) NETHERLANDS (98%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (91%); INDONESIA (91%); AUSTRALIA (91%); EGYPT (90%); FRANCE (90%); THAILAND (90%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); BULGARIA (71%) AMSTERDAM (NETHERLANDS); NETHERLANDS

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



778 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADIVSORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Tourism Venture Ends On Midway Atoll Refuge

BYLINE:  By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

 BODY:
THE Bush administration is hoping to create business partnerships with private companies to invest in wildlife refuges and preserves, sometimes with development in mind and sometimes for conservation. The proposal is the highlight of the administration's budget request for the Fish and Wildlife Service, an agency in the Interior Department that runs the sanctuaries. But while the approach meshes nicely with Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton's "new environmentalism," a similar venture by the previous administration has failed.
 Opening Midway Atoll National Wildlife Refuge to the public was an attempt to blend tourism and wildlife protection in the remote reaches of the Pacific Ocean, more than a thousand miles west of Hawaii. 
 In 1996, Midway Phoenix, a company in Georgia, took over running the island's small station, which the Navy had occupied ever since the World War II battle over a strategic refueling stop, and started receiving tourists there the following year.
Claimed by the United States in 1859 (its guano was valuable as fertilizer), Midway was occupied by 21 marines under President Theodore Roosevelt in 1903. His intent, he said, was to protect the albatross from Japanese hunters. But that same year an oceanic cable was extended through Midway. The 1,500-acre atoll, made up of two small islands and a surrounding reef about five miles in diameter, has been occupied ever since.
Once the Navy left, turning over Midway to the Fish and Wildlife Service after cleaning up the ramshackle base, Midway Phoenix, based in Cartersville, Ga., took over managing the airport, providing power and maintaining buildings, including officers' quarters that it made into a resort.
The arrangement was to cost the government almost nothing; the company, which invested millions, planned to turn a profit by bringing small numbers of tourists to the sanctuary and refueling planes and ships.
But early this year, Phoenix abruptly announced that it was suspending operations, and on March 6 the partners abandoned their cooperative arrangement. Phoenix will keep the power on and the airport running until May 1, and is required to leave Midway in condition that the Federal Aviation Administration can certify as suitable for emergency landings by commercial aircraft. (It is not clear whether the F.A.A. will continue that certification once the company leaves the atoll.)
The wildlife agency, meanwhile, says it will look for a new contractor to run the airport and tourist facilities. But Phoenix doubts any other company can make a similar agreement work, said Robert F. Tracey, its executive vice president.
The company walked out of the deal complaining that the wildlife agency had not been flexible enough in letting tourists use the beaches and reefs. "They are not visitor friendly," Mr. Tracey said of the agency. "They are self-appointed stewards of nature, but if they had to look at a profit and loss statement, as we do, they would have to be flexible." Most beaches were closed, ocean-going tugs were not allowed to visit for refueling, and "we had to fight like hell for a couple of cruise ships to visit," he said.
The agency, for its part, said the company was not meeting some contract conditions, finding them too expensive.
With trips abruptly canceled, Aloha Airlines ended its weekly flight from Hawaii, isolating the atoll's 150 or so permanent residents. About 150 contract employees lost their jobs.
Among the visitors whose plans were scrubbed were more than 250 who had signed up with the Oceanic Society, a nonprofit conservation group, for its eco-tour to Midway this year. Typically, tourists who take the two-hour flight from Hawaii work as paying volunteers in such projects as banding albatrosses that nest by the hundreds of thousands at Midway, where sailors knew them as "gooney birds."
The great frigate bird and the white-tailed tropicbird are other spectacular residents of the atoll. A small colony of rare monk seals breeds there, and big sea turtles forage in the lagoon. To avoid disturbing them, all of Eastern Island, part of the atoll, is off limits to visitors except once a week, when they are allowed ashore in an amphibious craft, under careful supervision by wildlife scientists. Small numbers of tourists are allowed to dive and fish in Midway's waters.
Birgit Winning, president of the Oceanic Society, said that wildlife programs would be harmed by the end of the agreement.
"Not only will the endangered species and habitat recovery process be affected, so will preservation of historic sites and opportunities for long-term biological monitoring and research," she said.
Barbara Maxfield, a spokeswoman for the Interior Department, said it had not been satisfied with the company's performance in maintaining the refuge's property, ensuring the safety of tourists, and protecting the frail resources of the atoll. By law, the wildlife agency's main objective in managing its reserves is conservation. 
Because of its remoteness, the Midway project was challenging economically, and its failure comes as Congress considers the Bush administration's request for $1.3 billion for the agency next year, including a $56.5 million increase in spending at refuges. The budget includes $284 million for programs to give companies incentives to restore wildlife habitats on public lands. But new land purchases would be reduced, the White House says, because the refuge system, with 535 units totaling 95 million acres, has a backlog of more than $660 million in unfinanced maintenance projects. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (95%); WILDLIFE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TOURISM (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MILITARY BASES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CIVIL AVIATION (70%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); FERTILIZERS (67%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (54%) WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (84%); US NAVY (83%) MIDWAY PHOENIX (CO); FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) MIDWAY ISLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) MIDWAY ISLANDS; MIDWAY ATOLL NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



779 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2850 words

HEADLINE: The Little Engine That Can 

BYLINE:  By J. D. REED 

DATELINE: PRINCETON 

 BODY:
ON a recent Monday morning, a few dozen commuters scurried along the train platform to get out of a cold rain. Among them were the novelist Peter Benchley; Gregory J. Osberg, executive vice president of Newsweek magazine; and Nicholas Katzenbach, a former attorney general of the United States. They settled into their seats with pleasant nods to the other regular riders whom they recognized, then snapped open their morning papers.
 These notables, along with their less-exalted fellow travelers, regularly shuttle through the flats of New Jersey on what can often seem like a movable green room for some ultimate talk show. 
 Yet this self-propelled car -- commonly known as the Dinky and sometimes as the PJ&B (for Princeton Junction and back) -- though providing only a four-minute ride, is long on history, privilege and notoriety. For generations, it has been celebrated in the literature and the lore of Princeton University. And in a cycle of difficult budget choices, powerful advocates help keep the little engine that not only could -- but insisted upon -- out of harm's way. 
So the single car, operated by New Jersey Transit, plies back and forth about every half hour between the magnolia-budded tranquillity of the university campus and the hard-edged, workday bustle of Princeton Junction a mere 2.7 miles away, making it perhaps the shortest regularly scheduled passenger route in America.
"I have been riding the Dinky for 54 years and find it soothing and reliable," said Freeman Dyson, a renowned physicist and a professor at the Institute for Advanced Study here. "I consider it a great privilege to be living at the one place in the United States that has decent train service."
On a typical weekday, the Dinky, as anachronistic as a pair of cordovan wingtips, moves about 250 daily commuters to trains bound for New York and Philadelphia on the Northeast Corridor line. It ferries university students during vacations, and carries the Matrons Who Lunch and faculty members like Mr. Dyson toward their speaking engagements and theater trips to the city. Altogether, it handles about 850 riders each day.
The Dinky ride itself is as necessary as morning coffee to regulars. Take Jane Silverman, the executive director of the Association of Junior Leagues International, who seems to speak for many of her fellow commuters when she says, "The Dinky is a necessary transition between precious Princeton and the real world." That world begins with the rush hour stampede at Princeton Junction, during which sharp words are exchanged, and an occasional elbow flung, as hundreds of riders compete for too few seats on the hourlong ride to New York City.
Parking spaces spell out the difference between the two stations -- indeed, the two New Jerseys. Princeton Junction station is administered by West Windsor, a community that grew like wildfire in the 1990's, in great part because of its proximity to public transportation. There are more than 3,000 spaces at the Junction, and a four-year waiting list to get a parking sticker. Back in bucolic Princeton, which lies on the other, pricier, side of Route 1 -- that cataract of traffic that bisects central New Jersey -- there are only 125 slots in the university-owned lot -- and no waiting.
"At one time I had parking stickers for both places," said Aline Haynes, a broker of high-end real estate with Manhattan's Stribling & Associates, and who has been a commuter for 19 years. "But I quickly decided on Princeton. I love the sociability of the Dinky. Once you hit the main line, it becomes just another uncomfortable commute."
Over the decades, the Dinky has ferried more famous people than any conveyance except the Queen Elizabeth II. Hundreds of celebrities have made the little journey -- people who would not normally enter the same orbits, much less the same railroad car. The economist John Maynard Keynes, who taught at Princeton, and the actress Margaret Hamilton, better known as the Wicked Witch in "The Wizard of Oz," who appeared at the McCarter Theater, were both once onboard. Nobel Prize winners from Albert Einstein to the novelist Toni Morrison as well as less high-profile laureates have been a common sight. Other fellow travelers include Brooke Shields, John O'Hara, Mikhail Baryshnikov, Bill Bradley, Joyce Carol Oates, Ron Howard, T. S. Eliot, Bill Walton, Paul Robeson, Christopher Reeve, James Taylor and Thomas Mann. 
In the early 1980's, a commuter strolled onto a post-rush hour Dinky to find only three passengers waiting for the ride to the Junction. At one end of the car sat Brendan Byrne, a former governor of New Jersey, reading a legal brief. In the middle of the train, John McPhee, the author and New Yorker writer, was absorbed in a manuscript. And at the far end, Mr. Benchley was engrossed in his morning paper. They seemed oblivious to one another's presence.
By far the most celebrated current regular is the mathematician John F. Nash Jr., who is portrayed in the Academy Award Best Picture, "A Beautiful Mind." Long before he was awarded a Nobel Prize, a chain-smoking Mr. Nash, wearing a wrinkled raincoat and scuffed canvas sneakers, rode from his home near Princeton Junction to the university nearly every day. Almost everyone knew him by sight, though few knew who he was.
"I've been bumping into John Nash for the last 25 to 30 years," said Paul Gray, a book critic and journalist. "One October morning in 1994, while waiting for the 8:51, I saw Nash's picture on the front page of a local paper in a vending machine. My first thought was, 'Oh, how sad, the local character-bagman must have died.' Then I read the headline and realized that the local character-bagman had won a Nobel Prize."
Mr. Nash, who is sometimes joined by his son Johnny, a teacher, is still a regular, off-peak Dinkyite.
"Nash will often ask if we can hold the train while he has a cigarette," said Artie Radford, a Dinky engineer for the past 20 years. "We always say yes. Mostly because he smokes a whole cigarette in about 30 seconds and it never makes us late."
While it may cater to the whims of its notable ridership -- celebrities, the merely famous and the high-profile -- eccentrics on the Dinky are studiously ignored, unless one has served on the same charity board, or has a daughter who also plays traveling hockey.
One commuter sailed awfully close to the wind when he struck up a conversation with Mr. Katzenbach one morning. The commuter had reviewed "Hart's War," a novel by Mr. Katzenbach's son Jonathan, which called on many of the former attorney general's World War II experiences as a prisoner of war.
"I always got on and minded my own business," said Joe Wisnovsky, a 35-year veteran of the commute and editor of science books who now works at the Princeton University Press. "I hardly noticed who was in the seat next to me."
There are exceptions, of course. A conductor, Earl Hagaman, who for the past 16 years has collected the fares (currently $1.65) retrieved lost car keys and once even rescued a baby who had been left onboard, could not resist having some fun when he learned about John Plummer, a renowned expert on medieval illuminated manuscripts who was for many years a commuter.
"Hey, John," Mr. Hagaman would say to Mr. Plummer, an emeritus professor of art history at Princeton and a fellow of New York City's Pierpont Morgan Library. "A buddy of mine has a trailer-load of paintings. They're good ones, on black velvet. You know about art. You can help us sell them."
The kidding still brings a smile to the good-natured Mr. Plummer, who said, "Earl was irresistible."
The feeling is mutual.
"People like John Plummer are always a pleasure to have onboard," said Mr. Hagaman. "So are most of the regulars."
Such familiarity breeds anything but contempt among riders, who have grown into a kind of four-minute community. On main line Amtrak and New Jersey Transit trains, the experience is impersonal: conductors change often, one never meets an engineer, and a ticket must always be shown.
But on the Dinky, Mr. Hagaman checks monthly tickets once, and doesn't bother until the first of the next month. William P. Lockwood Jr., who is responsible for most of the artistic programming at McCarter as well as the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, has also been a Dinky rider since 1965.
And as Mr. Lockwood put it: "The Dinky is a kind of commutation society. We don't all know each other by name or position, but we recognize each other. And that's important. After all, the first face you see in the morning after you kiss your wife goodbye is the Dinky conductor."
The personalized service extends in some interesting directions. The Dinky schedule is posted backstage at McCarter Theater. As it happens, most members of the theater's permanent acting company live in New York City, which makes them very conscious of show timing. A 10:17 p.m. curtain means they might be able to make the 100-yard dash from the stage door to the door of the 10:22 Dinky, makeup intact.
"We wait for them sometimes," said Mr. Radford. "We don't have much going on at that time of night anyway."
The engineer also serves as information central. Has a friend been missing for a few days? Artie, the engineer, might know. He will know if the person is out sick, on vacation or has retired. Mr. Radford also keeps track of which cars are in the parking lot, and when.
"On the evening of Sept. 11," Mr. Radford said, "there were two cars left in the lot. I was worried, but the next day the people were back. They weren't able to get out of the city. We didn't lose anybody."
Along with the special treatment comes Dinky protocol. Rule 1: Never ask what a fellow commuter does for a living, or what position he holds. One may find seated on a typical morning rush hour trip the chief executives of Fortune 500 companies, $500-an-hour corporate lawyers, small-business owners, journalists, dot-com programmers, adjunct Rutgers University professors, advertising executives and foundation heads.
"I talk to people every morning that I would never even meet elsewhere in life," Mrs. Haynes said. "You know them for years, and you have no idea what they do."
Indeed, certain subjects, including titles, are taboo. Politics are generally off limits, as is any form of business conversation. Most chat concerns the weather, late trains, films recently seen and, of course, golf. Indeed, an Old Boy swathed head to toe in Orvis recently showed a friend his scorecard from the back nine at the Burning Tree Country Club in Bethesda, Md., outside Washington, where presidents often take their hacks. Behavior in the car also has its rules: The urgent bleat of the cellphone, which can drive some commuters to acts of violence, is almost never heard. Conversation is acceptable on the morning run, frowned on in the evening.
Of course, problems in the parking lot are always a topic. Some years ago, the Case of the Crooked Parker bedeviled regulars. An unknown commuter who arrived for a very early train often took up two spaces by sloppy parking. After weeks of fuming, several commuters positioned their cars so the miscreant couldn't get out. That evening, the Crooked Parker's car was still there, but there was no sign of its owner. The problem never happened again.
The parking lot itself is sleek with the products of Stuttgart: Mercedes-Benzes, BMW's and Audis. There are only a few S.U.V.'s, which generally draw an irritable lip-twitch by commuters. They are Just Too Obvious. One Princeton native, Robert Moore, who is managing director of Manhattan's MezzinaBrown Partners advertising agency, is a master of Princeton reverse chic. He drives a grimy, rust-flaking 1989 Toyota.
"It is," said Mr. Moore with quiet dignity and a straight face, "a special edition Samurai model. A classic."
Dinky style is similarly dated. While Armani and DKNY are making inroads, J. Press and Laura Ashley, Brooks Brothers and Talbot's still predominate. If Harry Truman walked onboard, his clothing would not be out of place. The feeling seems to be that a man's commute should be as quiet as his tie. Occasionally an unworldly type will board wearing old, heavy tweeds that smell like a wet dog. It is an olfactory reminder that there are a few commuters who still enjoy the blood sports.
No matter what one's pleasures, calling attention to the Dinky's implicit air of privilege and accomplishment is just not done. During reunion week, a Princeton University spring rite, several thousand alumni swathed in the school colors of orange and black descend on the town, many by way of the Dinky, for social frivolity. A few years ago, Mickey Wolfson, a Miami art collector and former Princetonian, parked his private train car at the Dinky platform during the reunion, inconveniencing regular commuters who had to walk down the platform to board the Dinky and who found the whole thing too ostentatious for words.
For all the Dinky's history, its origin is lost somewhere in the historic mists before 1874. It was operated by the Pennsylvania Railroad, on whose board sat a few patrician Princeton alumni. By the Roaring 20's, the little car was a part of Ivy League lore. Special trains would come down from New Haven and Cambridge for the Yale or Harvard football game with Princeton. The trains were parked on a siding of the main line, and sports fans took the Dinky to the university.
Indeed, the Dinky has been memorialized in two seminal works of literature, testament to the fact that before Princeton became coed in 1973, student dates from Vassar and other girl's schools were imported for the weekend on the train.
For instance, meeting one's date at the Dinky station was a rite of Ivy League passage. F. Scott Fitzgerald, who almost graduated from Princeton, captured the Jazz Age in his first novel, "This Side of Paradise," published in 1920. In one memorable scene, the protagonist, Amory Blaine, meets his weekend date at the Dinky station. More than 30 years later, J. D. Salinger, who vivified his own disaffected generation, wrote of Franny Glass in the classic "Franny and Zooey" who meets her date at what has to be the Dinky station.
Of course, the train has also figured in its share of student high jinks. In the early 1960's, George R. Bunn Jr., of the Bunn coffee maker family, and three fellow students held up the Dinky on horseback.
"We sat up in the woods beside the tracks -- not entirely sober, if I remember right," Mr. Bunn once recalled, "and waited for the 6:14. We had hats and bandannas and rented horses. I had a .38 pistol loaded with blanks. When the train came along, we galloped down and the conductor screeched it to a stop. We all climbed on and I fired off a couple of shots -- it was very loud -- and everybody was yelling and had their hands up and all the businessmen were throwing their wallets at us. We didn't have dates on the train. We just picked the four girls we thought were most likely to play along and told them what was going on. We all took off through the woods."
Not surprisingly, the railroad was not amused, but no charges were filed. 
A prank in 1990 involving the Dinky, however, did end tragically. Bruce J. Miller, a university student who had been to parties at several of Princeton's fraternity-like eating clubs, climbed onto the the top of the Dinky, where he suffered a severe electric shock from the overhead equipment. The injury led to the loss of both legs and an arm, and Mr. Miller sued the university, New Jersey Transit and several clubs. Eventually, the suit was settled for $5.7 million. 
Petite and precious the Dinkyt may be, but its future is not in doubt.
"At one point in its past, the Dinky was sort of an anachronism," said John L. McGoldrick, executive vice president of Bristol-Myers Squibb, a one-time Dinky rider and a current board member of New Jersey Transit. "But with the explosion of population in our area, it is an extremely useful line."
Planners are even considering lengthening Dinky service deeper into Princeton, and perhaps northwest into the towns of Montgomery and Rocky Hill.
Wherever the Dinky may extend, however, its roots will reach back through the haze of history to the platform at the foot of the university. For instance, Richard Preston, the author of "The Hot Zone" and "The Cobra Event," who is also a local resident, recalled his grandfather telling him how he rode the Dinky when he was in the class of '17 -- along with Fitzgerald and the literary critic Edmund (Bunny) Wilson.
"The Dinky would stop running late at night," Mr. Preston said. "So when they'd been in New York, and got back late, they would get off at Princeton Junction and walk the Dinky tracks. Much later, when I was a graduate student at Princeton and rode the Dinky, I sometimes thought of my grandfather and Fitzgerald and Wilson staggering along the tracks, young people with hopes, but no real idea that the world would hear from them one day. I felt the same way myself -- young, ambitious to write, with no way to see into the future or know that one could achieve one's hopes, riding the Dinky to Princeton, and to one's dreams."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Though only a four-minute ride, the Dinky, which runs between Princeton Junction and and the town of Princeton, is long on history, privilege and notoriety. One passenger unlocks his bicycle at the Princeton station, top, while another buys a ticket, above right. Once on the train, notables, along with less-exalted travelers, shuttle through the flats of New Jersey. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Dinky today, brought into Princeton station by the engineer, Art Radford, above, and some time between 1897 and 1908, top, with Grover Cleveland getting off the train. Over the years, the Dinky's celebrated and not-so-celebrated passengers have included, on left: Thomas Mann; Brooke Shields; John Nash, and Paul Robeson. On the right are: Toni Morrison; Albert Einstein; Joyce Carol Oates, and Mikhail Baryshnikov. (Collections of the Historical Society of Princeton); (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); WRITERS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (57%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (57%) RAILROADS; COMMUTING 

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%) PRINCETON UNIVERSITY; NEW JERSEY TRANSIT 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: REED, J D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) PRINCETON (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



780 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Parents Are Worried As District Struggles 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD WEIZEL 

 BODY:
FOR years, the Amity Regional School District, which includes 2,400 high school and junior high school students in the affluent New Haven suburbs of Orange, Woodbridge and Bethany, had been one of Connecticut's most respected regional school systems.
 But a report issued earlier this month by a special tri-town investigative committee charged that a budget deficit of $2.8 million was caused by top school administrators and school board members who improperly shifted and commingled money from different accounts and different school years. 
 The report accused the school board of fiscal mismanagement for, among other things, misspending money from a $2.85 million bond issue in 1998 earmarked solely to correct mold and fungus problems at Amity Regional High School. The findings have left the education community concerned, with many students, parents and educators worried about how the problems will affect the quality of education.
The district is in such financial trouble that residents in the three towns voted in a referendum to come to the district's aid by paying a special tax to save as many as 80 teachers' jobs. Now, the district is seeking a $29.5 million budget for next fiscal year and there is concern that voters, angry about how school funds were used in the past, may not approve it, further worsening the economic problem. 
The committee determined there was possible criminal wrongdoing that is being reviewed by the New Haven state's attorney, Michael Dearington. The committee also recommended that nine of the 12 school board members resign.
Michael Lohne, the chairman of the school board, said he had no intention of quitting.
"There isn't anybody at Amity who isn't embarrassed by what has happened, but I believe we can now move forward and learn from the mistakes that have been made," Mr. Lohne said, adding that he "welcomed a criminal investigation. Let them look all they want, I have nothing to hide. We're innocent until proven guilty."
Many teachers are indicating they may leave and many parents are already applying to area private schools for their children because they fear that potential cuts in programs and teacher defections could leave the district in a mess by September.
"It's ironic because when we moved here 11 years ago it was because of the school system, and the local elementary school is still excellent," said Kate O'Brien of Orange, whose 14-year-old son, Liam, attends Amity Regional Junior High in Orange, but would attend the regional high school in September.
Like many other parents at Amity, Ms. O'Brien said she may send her son to a private school in the fall.
"We are seriously considering enrolling our son in a private school and have already submitted applications because we don't see how the debacle at Amity is going to improve any time soon," said Ms. O'Brien, co-chairwoman of Amity Community for Education, a tri-town political action committee.
Karen Shinkman, president of the Amity Education Association, said as many as 20 of the district's 200 teachers are looking for new jobs. 
"Teachers are concerned because we want to just get back to the classroom and concentrate on teaching again," she said. "But if a budget for next year doesn't pass, we don't know whether we will have the supplies and staff to continue to function as a viable school system. At this point there's just a feeling of complete uncertainty about what is going to happen next. That's resulted in a lot of people talking about leaving." 
Some have already left.
Joseph Campbell, hired four years ago as the school system's information technology coordinator, has taken a similar job in the Brookfield school system. 
"I had to get out of there because of the complete lack of stability," Mr. Campbell said. "They have already cut my funding so severely I cannot provide the vision that they hired me to create. I may be the first to leave, but I won't be the last."
Jim Clifford, a social studies teacher, feared he could be out of a job if the board's proposed budget is not approved and the district is forced to make cuts.
"We thought the worst was behind us when the referendum was approved by voters in December, but now everything seems up in the air again," Mr. Clifford said. "I left another school to come here because Amity was always known for its excellence in education. But right now the only thing Amity seems to be known for is this controversy."
School administrators said they are trying to save the school system by placing strict controls on spending and implementing emergency programs that include intervention by a group of financial advisers.
"No purchase order goes through unless I sign off on it, and if there is no money in the account I don't," said Michael Nast, the interim school superintendent who was hired in January to replace the last superintendent, Rolf W. Wenner. 
"We know it's not business as usual any more, and there's no denying the impact this has all been having on students, teachers, parents and the community," Mr. Nast said. "But we still do have students to educate and we are trying to do that in spite of everything that has happened."
After meeting with Theodore Sergi, state commissioner of education, Mr. Nast said he will be taking Mr. Sergi's advice and relying on help from the Connecticut Association of Business Officials to come up with new fiscal procedures for the district. He said he hoped they will both improve fiscal responsibility and gain trust from the community.
But even the strongest education supporters said they believed any budget the school board tries to present will be defeated in referendum, and that would mean reverting to the current year's $28 million budget and no increase in spending, which administrators said would actually mean a decrease because of rising budget obligations.
Critics of the district are vowing to defeat the budget as long as school board members don't resign and are threatening to make the budget vote a referendum on the school board itself.
"It's a sinking ship and there's chaos throughout the district," said Robert C. Sousa, a former first selectman of Orange.
"The only way to save the school system is for this school board to just go away," he said.
Student leaders said it's tough being part of the Amity school system because of the controversy.
"Many students and teachers are very pessimistic and worried because there is a very real possibility voters are never going to approve a budget and nobody knows what that's going to mean to programs and teaching staff next year," said Anthony Monelli, 17, a senior of Bethany. "This entire school year has been like a roller coaster ride, but unfortunately we also know the worst could still be ahead."
Some students said their faith in the adults running the school system has been shattered.
"Kids really feel that the board has let down our school system and has set a bad example for students," said Melissa Zoock, 17, a junior of Orange. "We have always felt this was a great school system, but the school board is dragging us down and dragging down the reputation of the school. Kids are worried about how all this could impact programs next year and whether teachers might leave."
Patricia Varanelli, Amity's director of pupil personnel services, said she "never thought things would ever come to this," but she and other administrators have been meeting every week to prepare for a worst-case scenario that could include massive teacher defections and serious cuts to programs. 
"We began the school year not knowing if we would be able to make up the big deficit discovered last summer and we got a reprieve when voters approved the referendum," she said. "Now it looks like we're going to approach the end of the school year much the same way as we started out -- complete uncertainty about what happens next."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Amity Regional School District, which includes Amity Regional High School, above and left, is having financial problems. At far left, students, from left, Scott Feinberg, Garland Jackson, Anthony Monelli and Melissa Zoock, who said, "Kids are worried about how all this could impact programs next year and whether teachers might leave." (Photographs by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); BONDS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); ETHICS (70%); REFERENDUMS (67%); BOND ISSUES (55%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ETHICS 

PERSON: WEIZEL, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) AMITY (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



781 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
Managing Company Morale

BYLINE:  By JUDITH S. LEDERMAN 

 BODY:
JEFFREY M. SALTZMAN, the chief executive officer of Sirota Consulting and an industrial psychologist, has a tool for navigating the uncertain economy: surveys.
 Mr. Saltzman and his company, which has its offices on Manhattanville Road in Purchase, say that a properly done survey can help corporations manage employee morale and increase customer satisfaction. It can give managers important information with answers to questions about whether employees feel like they are being challenged by their work, treated considerately and compensated fairly. 
 "In a down environment like this one, you make better business decisions with information," Mr. Saltzman said. "It's important to know what to cut back on and what not to cut back on. Are layoffs and cutbacks right or wrong for this company at this time?"
Sirota had very few projects postponed during the latest recession. Over the last two years the privately held company grew to employ 40 full-time and 40 part-time employees, working for many Fortune 100 companies, and other mid-sized and large private companies, organizations from the public and nonprofit sector as well as government agencies. 
Bank of America in Charlotte, N.C., engaged Sirota last year to conduct what has become its annual "Associate Survey" process, a comprehensive survey of all 145,000 employees , from C.E.O. to janitor.
"The recession made it even more important for us to look for better ways of running our business," said Ronald J. Meadows, the bank's senior vice president of leadership development. "Strategically when you're looking for ways to grow your business you have to look at all the elements that affect it. We recognize that if we can find ways of engaging our associates more creatively, then our customers are more likely to do business with us, expand their business with us, and ultimately improve our business." 
Sirota moved to Purchase about four years ago, from the upper East Side of Manhattan. Its employees include industrial organizational psychologists, several statisticians, project managers and Web programmers. The company handles about 130 projects per year.
Sirota isn't the only survey company prospering through the recession, said Dr. Jack Wiley, president and C.E.O. of Ganz Wiley Research, a Minneapolis-based company that is one of Sirota's competitors. Despite some delays and postponements of research projects in early 2001, Dr. Wiley said, things began to rebound in second quarter 2001 and the fourth quarter was the best the company has seen to date.
"Forward-thinking companies see strategic measuring symptoms as a critical management tool," Dr. Wiley explained. "Employee surveys can detect the difference between performance leaders and performance laggers."
When Sirota Consulting was founded in 1972 by David Sirota, who had retired from his position as head of personnel research for I.B.M., its initial goal was to help companies manage their employees. I.B.M. was one of Sirota's first clients. 
Mr. Saltzman began working for the company in 1988, after seeing the company from the client side when he hired Sirota to do a survey for his employer, Timken Corporation, an Ohio-based steel bearings company. Mr. Saltzman, a Queens native and graduate of the State University of New York at Binghamton, had studied psychology along with classmates who were pursuing careers in clinical psychology. He said he found that he preferred "organizational neuroses" to "individual neuroses" and, after embarking on his industrial psychology career, was delighted to find that the pay exceeds the pay standards for clinical psychology.
In 1996, he bought Sirota Consulting with a partner, Douglas A. Klein, another industrial organizational psychologist, who is now president of the business.
"Linking employee surveys with customer satisfaction gave Sirota Consulting a unique vantage point," said Mr. Saltzman. "We had the ability to predict that components of employee satisfaction, such as a sense of equity, feeling rewarded, salary satisfaction and advancement opportunities, along with a sense of achievement and enjoyment of the challenge of the work, would lead to increased customer satisfaction."
The correlation between satisfied workers and happy customers is present in nearly all the surveys Sirota Consulting performs. And that, Saltzman said, represents big dollars for the surveying companies. Armed with information from the surveys, companies can make informed decisions. Surveys are conducted by telephone, on the Web, on in-house computer networks and sometimes through focus groups.
The average questionnaire ranges from 75 to 125 questions, although some have been longer. While questions are specifically tailored for the client corporation, questionnaires will include questions like "How would you rate your pay, your benefits, your boss?" "Are you treated with respect and dignity?" "How much direct feedback do you get on performance?" 
All questionnaires have one or two questions that include norms that are tracked by Sirota from one company to the next, to show how companies compare overall. 
Research is used in many different ways. Mr. Saltzman gave some examples: When advertising revenues dried up at a well-known business journal, the journal was wrestling with whether to keep personnel or lay some off. Based on customer surveys that indicated that the advertisers seek stability, known and well-trained contacts, the journal decided not to opt for layoffs. 
When British Petroleum merged with Amoco and Arco, Sirota was called in to perform a study in the refineries. Their findings indicated that employees had fewer accidents on the job when there was better employee satisfaction. In companies where managers were taught how to help employees deal with demands on the job -- prioritizing conflicting demands -- and where supervisors were better trained to deal with employees, there were fewer accidents.
"We look for what's important, but also for what's constant," Mr. Saltzman said. "Given everything that's going on with the economies, traumas in different parts of the world and all the external factors, what are the things that don't change? In looking at a company with hundreds of retail establishments, why does store A do better than store B? It always boils down to the leadership of the organization."
Mr. Saltzman, a 42-year-old resident of Pleasantville, was recently contacted by representatives of a Chinese government agency, he was asked to open an office in China, after its entry into the World Trade Organization to help Chinese organizations become more effective in the global economy in terms of how they manage their employees and do business in China. Although the logistics are quite complicated, Mr. Saltzman finds the project irresistible.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey M. Saltzman, left, chief executive officer of Sirota Consulting in Purchase, with Jannet Fermin and Michael Irwin Meltzer. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times); Deborah Campbell, left, Mildred Bass and Donna Sabatino at work at Sirota Consulting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (78%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); WORKPLACE MORALE (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (64%) LABOR 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SIROTA CONSULTING CORP 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: LEDERMAN, JUDITH S 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



782 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: THEATER; 
War's Long Shadow Falls on 'Hearts'

BYLINE:  By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
THE word was out. "Hearts" at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven is a loser. 
 Willy Holtzman's work, which opened on March 13, had already been called "the worst new play in memory" by one reviewer while another was driven to descriptions like hack, cliche, old hat, cheap and tawdry. 
 But a semblance of objective distancing is a critic's reason for being. Besides, Mr. Holtzman's biographically rooted play about the repressed memories of his father, a World War II veteran, won the Arthur Miller Award for Dramatic Writing, whatever that means. Various stagings in small regional theaters followed. 
Still, one could not help expecting a poorly attended house at Long Wharf last Sunday afternoon, presumably peopled by sorry subscribers.
Instead, a capacity audience stood during curtain calls, shouts of bravo resounding. Throughout the performance, which lasts little more than 90 minutes, people's reactions were more telling and interesting than virtually any onstage goings-on. Thank heaven for the audience.
Oh, the play. It is rambling, overextended and manipulative, shamelessly pushing emotional buttons. Wallowing in an excess of graphic toilet jokes at the expense of character development and carefully wrought details, "Hearts" is so lacking in a sense of economy, it appears to be on the promising brink of calling it quits for perhaps 40 minutes.
While this may not be the worst new play in this theatergoer's memory, it qualifies as the longest short one in ages.
What then does such dramaturgical intelligence have to do with the connection between five actors, playing some 20 parts, to an audience of almost 500? Is the recognition factor in a sketchy wartime memoir all it takes to move people? How can so many be visibly affected by a dreadful play? 
It wasn't until the 1998 film "Saving Private Ryan" that the memories of haunted World War II veterans were uncloseted in a big way. Veterans' support groups sprouted, emotionally scarred men in their 70's came forth, telling horrific stories, television shows discovered a newly resonant issue. 
The issues touched, just touched, by the playwright in "Hearts," creates sharing possibilities for many people. 
It should be noted that much of the Long Wharf audience last Sunday belonged to an age group still in touch with the immediacy of a life- altering event. After the performance, one woman could not stop weeping. Another, a subscriber for 10 years said, "This is the best play I have ever seen here." Most of the audience remained for a post-performance symposium, titled "Aftershock of the Greatest Generation," which was led by a psychiatrist and a historian. 
The great divide between critical endorsement and audience enthusiasm is a mysterious given. No one bothers to investigate the mystery. 
Critics jeer. Audiences cheer. So, what else is new?
But "Hearts" is not "Footloose." And it is not a tacky made-for-stock comedy. Does its box-office power depend on Dan Lauria, once a television name ("The Wonder Years")? Mr. Lauria is the only cast member assigned to one role, through which he roars, barks and bellows, stand-up style, when he isn't just declaiming lines at top volume.
Don't expect an attempt at audience-critic reconciliation here. What audiences and which critics should agree anyway? Perhaps "Hearts" represents a stage work desperately in need of niche marketing.
No theater savvy person will agree that content determines a play's value. Tedious plays have been written about the holocaust, about racism, about all manner of social injustice. Is "Hearts" so pertinent that it exists apart from theater standards and priorities, debatable as those are? Such are the new unanswerable questions to add to the age-old ones.
"Hearts" by Willy Holtzman. Long Wharf Theater, 222 Sargent Drive, New Haven. Performances through next Sunday. Box office: (203) 787-4282. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vasili Bogazianos, left, as Mike, and Dan Lauria as Donald in the World War II-based play, "Hearts," at New Haven's Long Wharf Theater. (T. Charles Erickson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VETERANS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); HISTORY (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) THEATER; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: LONG WHARF THEATER 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN; HOLTZMAN, WILLY; LAURIA, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: HEARTS (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



783 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2235 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester; 
16 Years Later, a Journey's End Nears

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: PEEKSKILL, N.Y. 

 BODY:
A 110-ACRE hilltop site overlooking the Hudson here seemed a natural for development 16 years ago. The property, a former girls' boarding school with its extensive grounds, convent and a chapel with 55 stained-glass windows, even lent itself to an evocative name: Chapel Hill. 
 But economic forces frustrated the plans of a series of five developers, even as weather and disuse attacked the old school buildings. The mansion that had housed the nuns was torn down, and Peekskill gave one developer permission to tear down the chapel. Eventually, 245 of the planned 439 condominiums were built, but none of the developers were able to see their plans to completion. 
 Now a prominent Westchester builder, buoyed by a strong market for condominiums, is bringing the project to completion. Foundations and framing are under way for the first of what will be 194 condominium units, a remaining classroom building is to be turned into lofts and apartments, and the chapel itself is being restored and prepared for a new role. 
The 82-year-old chapel was built by the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, the Catholic order that operated the school, to which young women with difficulties were sent by the New York City Welfare Department. 
In its new incarnation, the building -- which was approved for demolition in 1995 by the City Council -- will become a residents' community center and exercise club. "Luckily for us, the previous developer who wanted to raze it never got that far," said Peekskill's mayor, John G. Testa. "My concern since 1998, when I first became a councilman, has been to preserve the chapel, the character of the property and its historical value.
"To have a development called Chapel Hill without the chapel doesn't make sense," said the 43-year-old mayor, who describes himself as passionate about Peekskill's history. His father, Joseph Testa, was a night watchman at the school for many years, and the mayor himself, when he was in high school and college, worked there as a dishwasher and groundskeeper. He recalled "a very tranquil place, where the nuns treated me as part of their family." He added, "It was like a second home to me."
Although the land today is much different than it was when Mayor Testa visited it as youth -- with the barns, the convent and most of the other buildings gone -- he said he was pleased to see the chapel being used and the old orchard intact.
The Chapel Hill site was one of four in the city owned by religious institutions that seemed destined for development in the 80's. Plans for them changed over time, and are still evolving -- early this month an order of Episcopal nuns, the Sisters of St. Mary, agreed to sell the last of its property to a developer who plans a health facility there. 
The earliest building on the Chapel Hill site was a 3,000-square-foot mansion built in 1865 by Daniel H. Craig, the founder of The Associated Press. The Italianate-style house in the country was built by the executive for his daughter, Florence, who suffered from tuberculosis. A history of the site, written in 1952 by Chester A. Smith, said Mr. Craig "saved his daughter's health but lost his fortune, and the property went to foreclosure." 
The site, which Mr. Craig called Mount Florence, was acquired for $32,000 by Marshall Lefferts, a colonel during the Civil War, who was president of a number of early telegraph companies. In 1874, the Craig estate was sold to the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, and they began calling it Mount St. Florence even though there is no St. Florence. Girls from 12 to 16 were referred to the school by the Welfare Department of the City of New York.
The nuns built other structures on the site for the school, some of which still stand. But the Craig house, which fell into disrepair late in the 20th century, was taken down last year. 
The 16,000-square-foot chapel, which had 55 German-made stained-glass windows and an altar with a 25-foot-high marble canopy, was built by the sisters in 1920. John K. Karhu, an architect based in Oceanside, N.Y., who is overseeing the renovation, said the chapel is notable for its fine detail -- including exterior cornices and trim, very large arched windows, and crown and dentil trim inside. The church is listed on the New York State Register of Historic Places.
"We're trying to maintain the integrity of this special building, to have a reverence for it," the architect said.
Several small sections of the original stained-glass windows remain in the building, but most of the larger sections have been removed. They are being stored by the city, possibly to be displayed later in the city's museum. At least one entire window may be displayed in the new community center, Mayor Testa said. 
During the years after the nuns left in the late 1970's, the chapel suffered extensive water and weather damage, and Mr. Karhu said the renovation is expected to cost $2.5 million.
THE exterior brick has required extensive work, and the window lintels were rusting and are being repaired. The old wooden window frames were beyond repair, he said, although the original size and shape of the arched windows, which are 14 feet tall and 6 feet wide, have been retained.
Inside the chapel, the marble platform that held the altar with four rose-colored columns is to become a garden and a fountain. The vaulted ceilings and a round stained-glass panel in the ceiling are being restored.
Among other things, the community center will house a lounge, media center, exercise center and what Martin Ginsburg, the founder and president of Ginsburg Development, called "an awe-inspiring indoor basketball court," with several sections of the stained glass windows.
Outside, the developer is building a 40-foot-by-60-foot swimming pool, a playground and a tennis court. 
Mr. Ginsburg said it would have been less expensive to raze the chapel and build a new community center, but he wanted to keep the old building as a symbol of what came before.
The hilltop site was first developed for housing by the Mount Florence Group, which purchased it from the religious order in 1986. In the 1970's, the sisters had decided to divest themselves of the property because they believed it would be more beneficial to work with young people "in their own communities, in an environment familiar to them," said Sister Paulette LoMonaco, a spokeswoman for the order, which is based in Queens. They also closed another residential school, Villa Loretto, near Mount St. Florence.
Chapel Hill was one of four dormant church-owned sites that Peekskill rezoned for redevelopment in the early 1980's, when George E. Pataki was mayor of the city. The rezoning, along with the promise of quick approvals and public subsidies, lured several major developers into Peekskill.
Of the other formerly church-owned sites, only one, the former home of St. Peter's School, was developed; about 300 condominiums were built there during the 1980's.
At another site, St. Joseph's Home, which was a convent and orphanage, 20 acres are being considered for condominiums by Ginsburg Development. 
The third site has been owned by an Episcopal order of nuns, the Sisters of St. Mary, which moved to the property in 1872 and had a convent, a school and a home for orphans there. The nuns first sold 47 acres to Cappelli Enterprises, which planned to develop luxury high-rise condominiums. But after encountering objections from the public and from the city, Cappelli decided not to proceed with the project. Now, the national nonprofit Trust for Public Land has an option to acquire the site, known as Fort Hill, which was a lookout point for colonial troops during the Revolutionary War. The group is offering the company $3.75 million for the historic site and plans to preserve it as open space. 
Earlier this month, the Sisters of St. Mary contracted to sell their remaining 26 acres to a private developer, Top of the Mountain Inc., which is planning to build a wellness center and rehabilitation facilities there, according to Tom LaPerch, a broker with McGrath & Basciano Associates Inc., real estate consultants in Fishkill specializing in institutional properties. The developer is in discussions with medical institutions about setting up the facilities and intends to use the buildings that are already on the site, he said. The nuns plan to move in 2003 to Albany and to establish a new convent there.
At Chapel Hill, the first prospective developer, the Mount Florence Group, was a joint venture of I AM Properties of Newburgh, N.Y., and Corcoran, Mullins, Jennison Inc. of Quincy, Mass. But after failing to get the school buildings listed on the National Register of Historic Places, which would have enabled them to receive tax credits to help turn the old school site into housing, the developers defaulted on a $10 million mortgage. By the time the last certificate of occupancy was issued to the Mount Florence Group in 1989, 70 town houses and 48 garden apartments had been built, records in City Hall show.
In 1991, another developer, M.M.E. Powers, built about 20 town houses before leaving the project in 1993.
In 1994, the undeveloped sections were acquired by the Chapel Hill Development Corporation from a subsidiary of Fleet Bank for $1.25 million, including back taxes, according to records in City Hall. That developer built 32 units.
In 1997, another company, called Lepack, completed 75 unfinished town houses started by M.M.E. Powers, bringing the total number of units to 245. 
Last summer, Ginsburg Development acquired the undeveloped property, along with the existing church buildings, from Chapel Hill Development for $4 million. Ginsburg, based in Hawthorne, expects to spend about $60 million to complete the project. 
Ginsburg has cleared away abandoned buildings, poured 32 foundations and framed in 10 housing units in addition to beginning work on the chapel. The first units are to be ready for occupancy in June.
When completed, Chapel Hill will consist of six residential areas, three of which were developed by the previous builders. Ginsburg is now developing two new phases of two- and three-bedroom, semiattached homes and attached town houses in seven models. Some of the three-bedroom models have room for an optional fourth bedroom.
Prices start at $288,900 for a 1,688-square-foot, two-bedroom model with a one-car garage and reach $429,900 for a 2,202-square-foot, three-bedroom model with a two car garage. Thirty-five of the new units have already been sold. 
THE developer is also planning to renovate the former St. Germaine School building, a five-story brick structure next door to the church. That building will be converted to condominium lofts and apartments. Sale prices for the apartments, which will not be ready for occupancy until 2004, have not yet been set. 
For Mayor Testa, completion of the project means that an important part of the city's history will be saved and that Peekskill's 22,441 residents will probably be spared a tax increase next year because of the income generated by the new residences. 
The residents of Chapel Hill say they are pleased that after other developers have come and gone without completing their projects, this developer may finally deliver amenities of the sort that had been promised over the years. "There were too many years when other developers broke too many promises to us," said Charlotte Sperling, a retired special education teacher and a resident of Chapel Hill since 1998. "Now things are really happening."
While many residents welcome the new recreation center, Robert Rubenfeld, a board member on the Chapel Hill Estate Homeowners Association, said that Mr. Ginsburg, like the other developers, was not making good on at least some of his promises to residents. As a board member, Mr. Rubenfeld contacted Mr. Ginsburg about two years ago and asked him if he would be interested in purchasing the property and finishing the project.
In particular, Mr. Rubenfeld, who moved into his two-bedroom condominium in 1989, said Mr. Ginsburg had promised to build an indoor pool, but was now reneging. Mr. Ginsburg said that an indoor pool had been under consideration but that the cost was found to be too high.
"I bought into this hoping for a full lifestyle community," said Mr. Rubenfeld, who grew up in Peekskill and works in Manhattan as a director of interagency coordination with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
But even without an indoor pool, Mr. Ginsburg's proposed amenities package will be appealing to most new buyers, said Suzanne Macci, a real estate agent and the owner of Vintage Hudson Realty in Peekskill. "In the last two years, the condo market has been so hot that things are selling well everywhere," she said.
According to Arlene and Gerald Kolosky, who live in a two-bedroom condo, what residents really need in Chapel Hill is a sense of community. "We need an outdoor pool and a clubhouse because we need a place for the neighbors to get to know each other," said Mrs. Kolosky, a residential sales agent with Coldwell Banker in Yorktown. "We want a place to spend an evening together, to play bridge, to build a lending library. An indoor pool is not worth fighting about now."
Mayor Testa echoed the residents' sentiments. "We've done everything to keep the character of what this place once was and at the same time finally move ahead," he said. "What's most important is that completion of the project is at last in sight."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martin Ginsburg, below left, founder of Ginsburg Development, is the fifth developer at Chapel Hill, where a former school building, top, is to become lofts and apartments. Mayor John G. Testa holds a stained-glass window from the former chapel. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times); (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 4); Construction has started on the first of 194 more condominium units.; St. Germaine School, left, will be apartments; chapel, a social center.; Eventually, the four columns will frame a garden and fountain in the community center. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Map of New York shows the location of the Chapel Hill development. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (87%); CITIES (87%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (78%); WOMEN (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); RELIGION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



784 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Lab Space Is Bright Spot in Dim Cambridge Market 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
OVER the last 18 months, as Internet and telecommunications tenants have evaporated, the vacancy rate in this small, high-priced office market has been soaring. But as vacancies in office buildings increased, the market for laboratories -- the most expensive space of all -- tightened. As a result, several new commercial projects are being repositioned from offices, telecommunications facilities or industrial sites to laboratories for life science companies engaged in biotechnological and biopharmaceutical research, product development and manufacture.
 At the end of 2001, the overall vacancy rate for the 17.5 million square feet of commercial space here was 18.5 percent, compared with 1.2 percent at the end of 1999. In East Cambridge, a neighborhood fronting on the Charles River that is flush with new development, vacancies have reached 21 percent. 
 But for the 7.3 million square feet of existing biotechnology space, which is about 70 percent laboratories and 30 percent offices, the citywide vacancy rate is 0.25 percent as of the end of last year. When 11 commercial conversion projects (shell buildings that landlords are marketing or converting for laboratories), are included, the rate rises to 8.3 percent, according to Joseph P. Flaherty, senior vice president at Meredith & Grew Inc./Oncor, a full service real estate firm. 
In 2000, when the first signs of weakness appeared in the office market, some property owners who were designing offices scrapped those plans to build laboratories instead. The relative demand was so strong that in one case last year plans to build a rental apartment building -- in a city with a chronic housing shortage -- were replaced by blueprints for a more costly lab.
Now, other owners who find themselves with empty telecommunications, industrial or office building shells are trying to convert them into laboratories.
At University Park, a mixed-use project near the Massachusetts Institute of Technology that is to have 1.6 million square feet of commercial space and 420 units of housing when completed, two buildings now under construction that had been planned as offices were redesigned in 2000 for biotechnology tenants, according to Peter Calkins, senior vice president of development for Forest City Enterprises, the project's developer. It owns the buildings at University Park, and M.I.T. owns the 27 acres of land.
The two buildings that became labs have 345,000 square feet of space and were converted to respond to space demands of expanding University Park biotechnology tenants. Another building at University Park was going to be the 235-apartment rental building, but last year Forest City decided to put a 241,000-square-foot biotechnology laboratory there. 
M.I.T. currently owns 10 million square feet of buildings for academic use, 3 million square feet of commercial property and the land at University Park. A year ago, the university purchased Technology Square, a complex that has 872,000 square feet in six buildings, of which 254,000 square feet is vacant.
OF the vacant space, only 36,000 square feet are laboratories, which M.I.T. may use itself. If not, "whatever lab space we bring to market we can lease," said Joseph T. McGuire Jr., M.I.T.'s director of real estate.
A significant portion of the empty space at Technology Square involves a single building. Completed last fall, it had been 90 percent preleased to the Internet company Akamai Technologies, which never occupied its 114,000 square feet of space. Instead, last month, Akamai paid M.I.T. $15 million to dissolve the lease. 
In total, 11 Cambridge buildings have recently been or soon may be repositioned for use by life science tenants: the three at University Park, one at Technology Square, four in East Cambridge (two owned by Lyme Properties, one by the Beal Companies and one by Laverty & Lohnes L.L.C.), a former candy factory near M.I.T. (owned by DSF Advisers) and two on Memorial Drive, which runs along the river (owned by Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc., a biotechnology real estate investment trust). 
These property owners' preference for biotechnology is simply explained: demand is strong and rents are high. "Biotechnology is expanding, so the demand is there," said Mr. Calkins of Forest City. "With rising construction costs, the economics for offices isn't that great, but the return on investment for biotech is better, and they're always 100 percent preleased."
Current rents for labs are clearly more attractive. Offices here are now leasing for $25 to $40 a square foot annually, compared with $60 for labs. But the property owner who invests in developing laboratories must be prepared to make a big investment. 
To construct the shell of an office building here costs about $125 a square foot. For the landlord to fit it out for office tenants costs about another $25 a square foot.
The shell for a laboratory costs about $200 a square foot. The landlord must then invest another $75 a square foot to build out the space for a biotechnology tenant. The tenant will then invest an additional $150 to $300 a square foot to equip the space, said David L. Pergola, executive vice president of Meredith & Grew Inc./Oncor.
To convert an office building shell to a building that could serve the needs of life science tenants -- who require higher ceilings, sturdier floors and more intensive climate control, ventilation and electrical power -- calls for an investment of an additional $75 to $100 a square foot, Mr. Pergola estimated.
"Basically the major Cambridge developers -- M.I.T., the Beal Companies, the Lyme Company -- are attempting to recapture general purpose buildings for biotech use," he said. "While demand for offices has diminished, biotech is expanding, fueled by an increase in venture capital funding, the drive by pharmaceutical firms to develop new products and substantial National Institute of Health funds funneled to Massachusetts."
Of approximately 200 biotechnology companies in New England, about 85 percent, with 20,000 workers, are in Cambridge and Boston.
In the six-state region as a whole, perhaps 50 of the biotechnology companies are publicly traded. As a group, from June 2000 to June 2001, the revenues of the publicly traded companies totaled $3.6 billion, up 50 percent from a year earlier. Their losses that year were $1 billion, up 25 percent from the previous year, said Stephen Buckley, New England director of the life science practice for Ernst & Young, the accounting and consulting firm.
Much of the space designated for conversion in Cambridge has not been leased yet, but brokers estimate that it will be absorbed in 9 to 12 months compared with an estimated 24 months to fill all the vacant office space.
However, they caution against considering biotech tenants to be the cure for all that ails the office market. "Biotech isn't the savior of the office market," said Gregory P. Lucas, senior managing director at Insignia/ESG Inc. "Cambridge has always been the East Coast center for the biotech industry. But, for the past decade or so, its growth here as an industry has been very steady and will continue to be so."
Furthermore, the investment in biotech space is so high that it is appropriate only for investors with deep pockets who plan to hold the property for a long time.
In addition, few properties designed for office use can be converted into biotech laboratories. Mr. Maguire at M.I.T. said, "Most office buildings can't be converted." Biotech laboratories require 30 watts of electrical power per square foot compared with 15 watts per square foot for offices; they also need floors that can hold more weight, and air control systems that recirculate 100 percent of the air versus 20 percent recirculated in offices. With more equipment in the building, floor to ceiling heights need to be higher and the penthouse that contains mechanical systems is larger.
The biotechnology sector may help bolster the Cambridge market until a resurgent economy revives the office market. But, over time, it is likely that the Cambridge commercial property market will continue to experience drastic swings in vacancies and rental rates. As the home of high-powered academic institutions, Cambridge is a center of innovation. 
"We deal with a lot of new, technology oriented industries that rely on venture capital funding," Mr. Maguire said. "As some companies move from research to product development, they leave for less expensive locations; others, like the dot-coms and telecom, just tank."

GRAPHIC: Photo: 300 Technology Square, a building near the M.I.T. campus that has been redesigned from offices to labs. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) Map of Cambridge highlights the University Park development and Technology Square.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MEREDITH & GREW INC (68%); FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (52%)

TICKER: FCEB (NYSE) (52%); FCEA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (68%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (52%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (52%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (52%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



785 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Connecticut; 
Next for Stamford's Harbor: a 40 Acre Development

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: STAMFORD 

 BODY:
FOR more than 20 years, Stamford has struggled to refute the deprecatory phrase "city without an identity," as it worked its way through redevelopment, from fading industrial town to the commercial, financial and residential center that it has become.
 Now an ambitious plan for a 40-acre development on the city's waterfront has been prepared for the eastern shore of the West Branch of Stamford Harbor, and an application to build the project is to be presented this week to the Stamford Planning and Zoning Boards. At a projected cost of $250 million, the 1.12-million-square-foot complex, to be called Admiral's Wharf, would contain 620 apartments in four buildings, a 275,000-square-foot office building, a maritime center, a ferry terminal and a 275 to 300 slip marina. 
 Facing the project on the opposite shore of the West Branch are Avalon Harbor's 323 apartments and marina under construction and Stamford Landing, an established enclave of apartments, restaurants and marinas. When projects on both its shores are completed, the West Branch is expected to emerge as a maritime playground for tourists and Stamford residents, as well as a coveted residential address. 
Admiral's Wharf's 125,976-square-foot, clock-towered signature building called the Maritime Center will have a maritime museum on the ground floor, along with a fish market, grocery, oyster bar, shops and a 16,000-square-foot restaurant. A major catering service and several banquet rooms will fill the second floor, and on the third floor there are to be 21 live-work lofts of 2,000 square feet each offered to artists, computer companies, sales operations and small businesses as condominiums. They will be delivered to buyers as raw space to be finished by the new owners as they wish. 
The project was designed by Do H. Chung in Georgian colonial style and is being developed by a partnership of JHM Financial Group of Stamford, the Brownfields Recovery Corporation of Boston and Collins Enterprises of Stamford. Its Strand/BRC Group project team is led by Do H. Chung & Partners, architects and planners; Culpen & Wood Architects, associate architects; Thomas Balsey Associates, landscape architects; and Redniss & Mead, planners and civil engineers.
A similar concept, called the Strand, was proposed 10 years ago by Arthur Collins, principal of Collins Enterprises, but on only 14 acres of the southerly portion of the same tract at a projected cost of $90 million. Delayed several times by environmental difficulties, flood zone problems and the recession, it was sidelined but not forgotten. 
Mr. Collins, a developer with an intense focus on waterfront real estate projects, has built several of them. "Waterfronts are harder to do because of environmental issues," he said, "but the value is there and it stays there, resistant to recessions, maintaining its market and moving faster at higher value, because there's less and less of it."
In 2000 he negotiated a purchase agreement with Northeast Utilities, owner of the property, requiring the utility to include a $10 million to $15 million cleanup of contamination in the sale price of $40 million. The purchase will be concluded when the project obtains full approval from municipal, state and federal agencies.
ACCORDING to Richard Redniss, president of Redniss & Mead, a zoning change from "Coastal Water Dependent District," which does not allow housing or restaurants, to "Designer Waterfront District," which supports mixed use, must be obtained. In addition, inland wetlands development faces review by the state Environmental Protection Board and in-water activity needs approval by state and federal agencies.
Finally, the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection must approve the Brownfields Recovery Corporation's remediation of coal tars, cadmium, arsenic, lead, PCB's and petroleum left by a coal gasification plant that operated there decades ago. 
Public hearings are expected to take place this summer, and final approvals could come through in the fall, Mr. Redniss said. Subsequently, the first phase of construction could start at the end of the year with the construction of 150 apartments and the ferry terminal. Completion, Mr. Collins said, could be sometime in 2008.
No decision has been made on marketing the apartments as rentals or condominiums, or both. As condominiums they would sell in the $300,000 to $400,000 range; rentals would run from around $1,300 to $4,300. Each of the four residential buildings will have a landscaped rooftop garden with a decorative pool and paved courtyard for the use of the building's residents. In compliance with a Stamford ordinance, 10 percent of the entire project's units will be occupied by people whose family incomes do not exceed 80 percent of the area median, which is $109,000 for a family of four.
Construction of the six-story office building will be contingent on securing a major tenant. With 60,000 square feet on each floor, Mr. Collins said, "we would hope that tenants looking for 200,000 square feet would give us serious consideration."
Parking for 2,142 cars will be in basements and multilevel structures within the various buildings, with an additional 150 surface spaces.
People on foot, bicycles or in-line skates would enter the property where Washington Boulevard joins Admiral's Wharf's 4,000-foot-long, 12-foot-wide paved promenade, which is to follow the perimeter of the project and is to be landscaped with gardens, flowering trees, pergolas, a play area for tots, lawns and a paved overlook at the ferry dock. 
THE promenade is to be integrated into the city's Waterfront Public Access, a linear park running from the Mill River at Broad Street through downtown, into and around the entire South End. 
The marina, which is to be acquired by Admiral's Wharf, is widely known as Brewer's Yacht Haven, with land storage for 600 boats and full boat service. Jack Brewer, who leases the property from Northeast Utilities, did not respond to phone calls about comments by John H. McClutchy, a principal in JHM Financial Group, one of the project partners, who said: "Brewer might be replaced. We are taking proposals from other operators." 
Stamford's waterfront, the last of its land mass to be reclaimed from industrial and residential blight, includes the South End and Waterside, both left behind in the frenzy of office building and roadway expansion north of Interstate 95. They are now faced with massive increases in traffic navigating a maze of narrow one-way streets leading to the Stamford Railroad Station and highway. 
"Widening and deepening the Washington Boulevard portal under the railroad is under reconstruction," said Thomas Bruccoleri, Stamford's transportation planner, and grants from the Federal Highway Administration will build a new roadway south of the highway, with lanes for cars, buses, bikes and shuttles and a sidewalk from Elm Street to Atlantic Street and the station, eliminating the worst of the substandard streets. Also under way is a new 1,000-car parking garage at Station Place and Atlantic Street, to be attached by an elevated walkway to the existing 900-car garage. 
The city's commitment to reclaim its waterfront is perceived by some critics to be happening at the expense of history and diversity in Waterside and the South End -- the small former "company" houses once occupied by multitudes of factory workers and the long-established black, Polish and Italian neighborhoods.
Mayor Dannel Malloy insists that "we're not going to see a total displacement of industry, and a lot of older housing will probably be restored, so I think Waterside and the South End will be mixed communities with light industry, lots of offices, parks, a ferry service, and we're going to see 2,000 to 3,000 units of housing come to the South End over the next 10 years."
Dismissing fears among downtown merchants and office building owners that a second city is being born south of the highway, he said: "It's not going to compete with downtown. It's a different style of development -- low-rise, nowhere near the 350-foot height or commercial density of downtown Stamford."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Maritime Center is to have a clock tower, a museum, a fish market, shops and a restaurant tentatively called the Ballroom at Admiral's Wharf. (Do H. Chung & Partners) Map of Stamford highlights Admiral's Wharf.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MARINAS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); RESTAURANTS (87%); BROWNFIELD SITES (78%); ZONING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); FERRIES (71%); FLOOD ZONES (70%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); CATERING SERVICES (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (55%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



786 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Wall Street'sLatin Spotlight Dims

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
ON his recent sojourn through Latin America, President Bush extolled the economic potential of Mexico, Peru and other nations that are opening their markets and pursuing free trade.
 It was an encouraging message for the region, but it contrasted sharply with recent moves by several large American brokerage firms. In a major strategic shift, they have removed their most influential Latin American strategists and slimmed down their research and sales operations. 
 The firms now track just a handful of the biggest companies in the most stable countries and ignore hundreds of small and midsize Latin American enterprises that they used to follow.
It has all the makings of a retreat, and when combined with grim financial news out of Argentina, Venezuela and other countries, it further dims the allure of emerging-markets investments. 
But the firms say they are not retrenching. They say Latin America is still important, even if the economic slowdown in the United States has made it necessary to pare costs. The realignment, they say, simply reflects the changing attitudes of institutional investors, who want to lower risk and increase returns.
The new attitude has sent ripples across the hemisphere, but it is also opening opportunities for individual investors willing to do their own research and take local risks while the big firms focus on global markets.
"What we're seeing is a sudden understanding of the fact that globalization means that one makes choices on a global scale, and that implies less regionalism in markets," said Albert Fishlow, senior economist at Violy, Byorum & Partners. "The reactions of the big brokerage firms to this trend are, in part, a re-evaluation of their position in the regions as a whole, and more of a focus on individual companies and opportunities."
Over the last nine months, three of the leading Latin American strategists on Wall Street have either parted ways with their employers or left the positions they held for many years. The companies do not want to say much about the separations. Neither do their former employees, who may plan to re-enter the Latin American market. But it is clear that the catalyst for the moves was a shift in strategy.
Ian Laming, the chief Latin American equity strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter for seven years, and twice named top Latin American strategist by Institutional Investor magazine, switched over to European equity research in July. Eduardo M. Cabrera, Merrill Lynch's chief Latin America strategist, along with four other members of the Latin strategy team, left the company in August. And Jorge O. Mariscal, chief emerging-markets strategist and head of Latin America research for Goldman, Sachs, left his company in October.
Early this month, Lehman Brothers melded its Latin American research group into its North American research group. In Latin America itself, Merrill Lynch has closed its retail sales offices in Santiago, Chile, and Buenos Aires over the last year. Goldman Sachs has cut its staff in Mexico, while selling its seat on the Mexican stock exchange.
THE realignment is being driven by several important trends. Most major privatizations of state-owned companies have been completed, ending what had been a lucrative opportunity for many investors. And a wave of acquisitions by Spanish and American companies led to the delisting of companies on local exchanges, reducing the number of interesting stocks available, lowering sales volumes and reducing the need for staff.
The new focus also reflects a shift in the structure and handling of emerging markets the world over. Big investors were originally lured to these markets as an alternative to overvalued American stocks; Mexico funds and other country-specific funds became the hot new thing.
But after the Mexican peso crisis of 1994-95, such funds were regarded as too risky. They were replaced by regional funds focusing on several Latin countries. That way, risk would be spread if there was a crisis in just one country.
The approach worked for a while, but the widespread fallout of the Asian financial collapse in 1997, Russia's devaluation in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation in 1999 set in motion another change, this time from regional funds to international funds.
Most recently, as globalization has spread, investors have shifted focus again, this time to global emerging-market funds that encompass only the largest and most stable developing countries. These funds included a combination of stocks -- some picked for their nationality, others for their sector -- like telecommunications.
In the heyday of its Latin America strategy, the emerging-markets research division at Goldman, Sachs tracked as many as 120 Latin companies. The Latin America research group at Merrill Lynch typically followed as many as 200. At the same time, a Mexico fund could include up to 100 companies in Mexico alone.
Now, a global emerging-markets fund will include no more than 100 large, well-capitalized companies from around the world. Of those, perhaps 20 will be from Latin America, and of those, no more than seven or eight will be Mexican. 
"In the old days, diversification went deeper, and that meant that small and medium-sized companies were able to attract the foreign investment they needed to grow," said Mr. Mariscal, the former equities strategist at Goldman, Sachs. "Today, things are far more concentrated, and the small-cap companies just don't make it onto the radar screens of the big firms."
Mr. Mariscal, now a consultant in New York, says the big global fund managers are interested primarily in huge companies like Telefonos de Mexico, Groupo Televisa and Cemex in Mexico, Banco Itau and Companhia Brasileira de Distribuicao in Brazil and a handful of others.
The big firms say the region remains crucial to their overall strategy, although in a different way. In essence, they say, parts of the market have matured faster than others. Corrado P. Varoli, managing director and head of Latin American investment banking at Goldman, Sachs, said this "segmentation" has made a few big, successful companies in large countries like Mexico and Brazil every investor's top choices while excluding just about everything else.
AS this new reality takes hold, opportunities emerge for individual investors. They can follow the big investment firms and concentrate on the few big-company stocks, most of which trade in New York either directly or as American depositary receipts.
But those stocks now tend to be overpriced. An alternative approach for those with a tolerance for risk is to pick up stocks of small and midsize companies now overlooked by the big firms. "Prices have drifted down, trading volumes have shrunk and the stocks are very attractively priced," said Peter Gruber, president of the Globalvest Management Company, which invests in Latin America.
Mr. Gruber said some stocks that have fallen out of favor with the big brokerage firms can be attractive. They include Telemig Celular Participacoes and Tele Norte Celular Participacoes, both telecommunications companies in Brazil. Mr. Mariscal named Internacional de Ceramica, a construction materials company, and Corporacion Interamerica de Entretenimiento, an entertainment company, in Mexico, and Lojas Arapua, a retailer, in Brazil.
Such second-tier stocks can pose a problem: once they are bought, they can be difficult to sell, because so few shares are traded. Mr. Gruber's company, which manages several funds that acquire emerging-market stocks trading at about half of book value, gets around that obstacle by looking for companies that are merger or acquisition candidates.
"If companies are discounted and they show me an exit," Mr. Gruber said, "I'll buy them."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about brokerage firms' declining presence in Latin America referred incorrectly to moves by Merrill Lynch in the last year. Although it transferred some employees to New York from Santiago, Chile, and Buenos Aires, its retail sales offices in both South American cities remain open.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jorge O. Mariscal, a former chief emerging-markets strategist at Goldman, Sachs, says big global fund companies hardly pay attention to small-cap regional businesses. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) Chart: "Spreading the Risk"Investors have been turning away from funds that concentrate their money in many stocks of one country or region. Instead, they are choosing more generalized funds that invest in a few large-cap stocks from many countries. Graph shows mutual fund assets in the developing world by type of fund EMERGING MARKETREGIONALCOUNTRYINTERNATIONAL (Source: Goldman, Sachs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); BONDS (77%); TRENDS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); RETAIL SALES (71%); CLOSINGS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) LATIN AMERICA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%) LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



787 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
For Resourceful Students, the Internet Is a Key to Scholarships

BYLINE:  By KATY MCLAUGHLIN 

 BODY:
STUDENTS and their families have been hearing stories for years about how millions of dollars in scholarship money goes unclaimed each year. While some money may be left over, scholarship experts say, the amount is probably much less than it used to be.
 "As fast as we get it in, we give it all out," said William H. Grey III, president of the United Negro College Fund, which awarded $45 million in scholarships in 2001, a 10 percent increase from the previous year. 
 More students have been applying for scholarships, Mr. Grey and other fund administrators say, because of a weak economy, a volatile stock market that has eaten away at college nest eggs, and easier access to scholarship information online. Some colleges and universities, meanwhile, have been relaxing financial-aid policies by promising not to cut or reduce aid when students receive certain scholarship money. 
The private-sector money flowing into scholarships has not stopped. "Foundations and corporations are maintaining their commitments," Mr. Grey said.
The Xerox Corporation, for instance, has not reduced the $2.5 million it gives each year for scholarships in its Xerox Foundation. "We know kids need this money right now, especially in this economy," said Joseph M. Calahan, the vice president of the foundation.
With more than 700,000 scholarships available from over 25,000 providers annually, careful planning is crucial for winning some of it. A good time to start is in a student's second or third year of high school -- scholarship deadlines are generally in the spring of the junior and senior years. High school guidance counselors can point students and their families in the right direction; they can recommend scholarships offered by specific colleges or community groups and discuss qualifications. Other sources to check include employers, trade organizations and labor unions.
Perhaps the best scholarship resource is the Internet. Web sites specializing in scholarships and college financial aid have proliferated in recent years, and many are free for users.
One of the most popular free services is Scholarships.com, which matches students to scholarships, grants, fellowships and internships from an extensive database. Lawrence Gerber, the president of Scholarships.com, says it has been receiving 15,000 visitors a day, on average, up from 7,500 at this time last year.
Another source is FastWeb.com. Tom Lubin, president of FastWeb, said the site does not have to charge fees for its services because it makes money by selling registered users' information to marketing partners.
In addition, there are pay sites like ScholarshipExperts.com, which charges annual fees starting at $29.95. It says it owns a database of more than two million scholarships totaling nearly $14 billion.
The service was founded in January 2001 by Ali Azhar, 24, of Jacksonville, Fla., who paid for his own college education with scholarships based on a relentless two-year search in public libraries. Mr. Azhar says he has no way to determine what percentage of his clients receive the scholarships for which they apply.
Mark Kantrowitz, the publisher of FinAid .com, an informational Web site owned by FastWeb, says 6 percent of FastWeb users get scholarships through the site, based on a 2000 study.
As they search the Internet, students and their families should be wary. Each year, many people fall prey to scholarship fraud, most of it online. The Federal Trade Commission warns consumers to be alert for companies that make guarantees, ask for money or credit card account numbers in order to "hold a scholarship" or promise to do all the work. The F.T.C. says that since 1996 it has sued nine companies accusing them of bilking consumers of more than $20 million by making false claims. (The agency posts a list of defendants and settlements on its Web site, www.ftc.gov.)
The legitimate online services maintain that they provide users with a list of only those programs for which they potentially qualify. This filter is a time saver, because many private-sector funds are designated for members of particular groups or for students who meet any other criteria based on financial need or merit.
THE Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, for example, set up a $1 billion program in 1999 to send 20,000 low-income students to college over 20 years. The fund, though, is restricted to students who are African-American, Native American, Alaskan native, Asian Pacific islander or Hispanic. Another example of a restricted scholarship is one from the King Faisal Foundation, sponsored by the Saudi Arabian monarchy, which offers generous grants that cover the full cost of a college education, a travel budget and a $400 monthly stipend. Only "good Muslims of good character" need apply.
Many scholarship funds have sprung up to help victims of the Sept. 11 attacks, and they also have restrictions. The W. M. Keck Foundation Scholarship, administrated by the United Negro College Fund, was set up for students who were indirectly affected. The students must attend private, historically black colleges and universities.
A recent recipient was Kimberly Usher, a freshman at Dillard University in New Orleans, who was awarded $12,500 in scholarship money last month. 
Ms. Usher, though, did not learn about the fund from a Web site, publication, or financial aid office. "I think it was God," she said. 
While Ms. Usher, 20, was driving through the campus parking lot last month, her car bumped into and scratched the car of John P. Donohue, the university's vice president for development. She told him she couldn't pay for the damage until the end of the semester, explaining that money was tight because her mother had lost her job at United Airlines after Sept. 11. Moved by her story, Mr. Donohue encouraged Ms. Usher to apply for the Keck scholarship; she was accepted two weeks after writing the required essay and completing the paperwork.
About 7 percent of undergraduate students receive private-sector money, according to the National Center for Educational Statistics. Most awards, though, are not as large as Ms. Usher's; the average is $2,000. 
With tuition at many colleges in the tens of thousands of dollars, and rising faster than the rate of inflation, that $2,000 average may seem like a drop in the bucket. 
Not so, says Dr. William C. Nelson, president of the Citizens' Scholarship Foundation of America, the administrator of the Dollars for Scholars Fund, which gave $114 million in scholarships in 2001, up from $57 million in 1996. The scholarships are financed by local chapters, which solicit money from businesses and individuals; the average Dollars for Scholars award last year was $1,250.
"Scholarships, even small ones, can often fill the gap between what the parents and the college can provide," Dr. Nelson said. "Sometimes $500 or $2,000 makes the difference between a student being able to go to college, or go to a particular college, or not." 
And, of course, the more ambitious student can go after more than just one scholarship.

College Money, Online
Looking for scholarship information? Here are Web sites that provide free search services:
* Wiredscholar.com, a financial aid site run by Sallie Mae, the education loan provider.
* Collegeboard.com, based on the College Board's annual survey of financial-aid programs.
* Scholarships.com, includes a database of 600,000 scholarships, grants, fellowships and internships.
* FastWeb.com, has a database of 600,000 scholarships totaling $1 billion.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 31 about the availability of college scholarships misstated the amount of scholarship money given by the Dollars for Scholars program. In 2001, it was $17.5 million, not $114 million; in 1996, it was $10.5 million, not $57 million; and the average award last year was $850, not $1,250. (The incorrect figures represented award money from the Citizens' Scholarship Foundation of America, which administers Dollars for Scholars and other programs.)
The article also misspelled the surname of the foundation's president. He is Dr. William C. Nelsen, not Nelson.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ali Azhar, a University of North Florida graduate who paid for his education with scholarships, founded ScholarshipExperts.com. (Oscar Sosa for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (79%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (60%); LIBRARIES (50%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (57%)

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: MCLAUGHLIN, KATY 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



788 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/'The Doomsday Scenario'; 
Blast From the Past: A Cold War Vision of a Nuclear Nightmare

BYLINE:  By SAM ROBERTS 

 BODY:
ATOMIC bombs smuggled into America's cities and set off without warning. The nation under attack from the air. Communications and the economy crippled. Chaos in the streets. One in five Americans dead.
 An apocalyptic Hollywood movie plot? Hardly. In 1958, one year after Nevil Shute published his haunting nuclear holocaust classic "On the Beach," government planners drafted their own top-secret doomsday scenario, speculating in clinical detail about the consequences of a full-scale nuclear attack by the Soviet Union. 
 The Defense Department's Emergency Plans Book, which was declassified by mistake in 1998, has just been published as "The Doomsday Scenario" by MBI Publishing (the book was printed in China, of all places). A historian, L. Douglas Keeney, discovered the plans in the National Archives and annotated the unsugarcoated text, which resonates in the contingency strategies drawn up in Washington after Sept. 11 for preserving government operations and mounting nuclear retaliation. 
Excerpts from the document and Mr. Keeney's accompanying commentary follow. SAM ROBERTS
 The U.S.S.R. is capable of:
a. Producing atomic weapons of varying yields ranging from a few kilotons (thousands of tons) to megatons (millions of tons) of TNT equivalent, biological and chemical agents, and incendiary and high-explosive weapons.
b. Delivering these weapons anywhere within the United States and upon U.S.-deployed forces and Allies by piloted aircraft, submarine-launched missiles or mines or clandestine means. . . .
The planners here assume that the Soviets were at least on par with our own stockpiles, if not ahead. . . . Even in 1958, it was assumed that America would be attacked by biological and chemical weapons. . . . The ability to deliver weapons "anywhere in the United States" . . . acknowledges that the Soviets had superb aeronautical design and manufacturing capabilities.
Warning Capabilities:
Weapons launched from submarines may arrive without warning. Likewise, weapons emplaced by clandestine means may be detonated without warning. . . .
In 1958 little could forewarn when the first nuclear weapons would hit America -- these would be missiles launched from Soviet submarines or bombs hidden inside America. . . . The warning one might expect before a submarine-launched ballistic missile impacted was in the range of 13 minutes. An airborne attack might be preceded by 25 minutes' warning. There would be no warning for a weapon preplaced on American soil. As early as 1958, American intelligence agencies had reason to believe that it was possible to smuggle a nuclear weapon into the United States, place it in a desired location and then control its firing. This is information that has never before been released to the public. 
The Attack:
The U.S.S.R. has made attacks with large numbers of atomic weapons on the United States and on some of its territories, bases overseas and its allies. The domestic air defense warning yellow for the first attack was disseminated two hours before U.S.S.R. aircraft appeared over U.S. frontiers. At the same time as the air defense warning yellow was announced, submarine-launched missiles arrived and weapons emplaced by clandestine means were detonated. However, the major weight of attack has been delivered by manned aircraft. 
Air Defense operations in North America and overseas have destroyed a substantial portion of the attacking aircraft, but half of those destroyed had reached the bomb release line and had released their weapons. U.S. and Allied military operations have resulted in casualties and damage to the enemy at least as great as those received. 
Notwithstanding severe losses of military and civilian personnel and material, air operations against the enemy are continuing, and our land and naval forces are heavily engaged. Both sides are making use of atomic weapons for tactical air support and in land battle.
Unfortunately, half of the Soviet planes that they do shoot down have already dropped their bombs. . . . As we counterstrike, we will use nuclear weapons, some of which will explode in our own air space.
Both on the North American continent and overseas, the major weight of the attacks appears to have been directed on U.S. and Allied military installations. . . . In addition, the District of Columbia and many population and industrial centers have been attacked.
Washington D.C., is heavily hit (as would be expected). Civilian populations, however, do not seem to be targeted. Why did the planners presume this? The use of weapons against civilian populations is a tactic designed to break an opponent's will to fight, but it has rarely worked. . . . Thus, the Soviets are furiously trying to destroy our capacity to retaliate. They are wasting no bombs on terror strikes. 
The surface bursts have resulted in widespread radioactive fallout of such intensity that over substantial parts of the United States the taking of shelter for considerable periods of time is the only means of survival. . . .
The general level of casualties throughout the United States is extremely serious. In many localities it is catastrophic.
The population of the United States in 1958 was 140 million. Almost one in five will die.
Post-Attack Analysis:
With human casualties exceeding material losses, ultimate recuperative potential to meet the requirements of the surviving population is high, providing this population can be adequately motivated. In spite of the magnitude of the catastrophe that has struck the nation and the possibility of additional but lighter attacks, more than 100 million people and tremendous material resources remain. . . .
The attack has caused an almost complete paralysis in the functioning of the economic system in all of its aspects. . . . During the survival period the economy is operating in a highly disorganized manner. 
The utilized labor force is engaged in large numbers in disposing of the dead, taking care of surviving injured, decontaminating and cleaning up bombed areas, returning public works and utilities to operation, and other activities related to the direct and immediate effects of the attacks. . . . There are few workers left to produce goods. . . .
Government control is seriously jeopardized and central federal direction is virtually nonexistent. Many of the highest government officials are casualties although the presidential office is functioning. Washington was so severely damaged that no operations there are possible. . . .
In many areas, including several of the largest cities, where surviving injured outnumber the surviving uninjured active adults, the social fabric has ceased to exist in the pre-attack pattern. . . .
Here we see that even in 1958, the government actually agreed that shelters would be inadequate. Many would be destroyed. Most were too far away to be useful; a large number for whom the shelters were intended would die before they reached them. Those who did get in would be so badly contaminated that they would soon succumb to radiation sickness and die.
From a pre-attack total of 1.6 million hospital beds, approximately 100,000 are available for use. . . .
The medical care requirements are overwhelming. In addition to 25 million dead or dying, there are 25 million surviving casualties who require emergency medical care. . . . Of the 25 million radiation casualties, 12.5 million have received lethal dosages and have died or will die regardless of treatment. . . .
Inadequate provision for laboratory diagnostic aids has hampered the more accurate determination of degrees of radiation injury. Unless such determinations are made, many lives may be lost because treatment is being given to hopeless cases. . . . The housing situation is critical. . . . In only very isolated situations is the housing inventory adequate to rehouse survivors from attacked areas.
Does the author contradict an earlier assumption and now say that civilian populations were targeted? Probably not. But collateral damage in nuclear war would be unavoidable and extensive.
Blast damage has not only completely eliminated major water and sewer networks, but has at the same time dangerously impaired the function of water and sewer facilities in peripheral areas otherwise unaffected by blast and fire damage. . . .
The monetary and credit systems have collapsed in damaged areas and are under severe pressure in those areas overrun with refugees. . . . Bartering, unorganized confiscation and looting are in evidence. . . .
Severe disruption to transportation service exists in all attacked and contaminated areas. . . .
Yes, production will be curtailed or blocked due to damage, manpower losses and radiation. But the "X" factor is the will of American to get back on its feet. . . . Therein lies the great strength of America: the refusal to backslide into the abyss.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1958, the government pondered the effects of such an event. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); COLD WAR (90%); EXPLOSIVES (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); AIR FORCES (75%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); HISTORY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (69%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%)

TITLE: DOOMSDAY SCENARIO, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



789 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Two Wrongs Don't Make A Right in World Trade

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
DOES it make sense for countries to punish one another for erecting barriers to trade by -- get this -- erecting more barriers to trade?
 That is what they do in the World Trade Organization. In its dispute settlement system, a country that imposes trade barriers that break the organization's rules can be punished with big tariffs on its own exports. 
 In the most recent case, the European Union is suing the United States over new tariffs of up to 30 percent on imported steel. The union wants the tariffs dropped or else the trade organization's permission to punish the United States with new tariffs. 
The union might also make good on its threats to retaliate against the United States' Foreign Sales Corporation tax code, which the W.T.O. has already ruled an illegal subsidy to American exporters. If the United States fails to change its law, the union could retaliate with $4 billion a year in tariffs.
That would be unprecedented only in size: since 1999, the United States has been using $117 million in annual tariffs to retaliate against the European Union's ban on American beef imports, a ban the trade organization also deemed illegal. After the union declared its own tariffs last week, of up to 26 percent on steel, the United States warned of another possible suit in the W.T.O.
Most people say the retaliation rules and procedures of the W.T.O. are "not the best," said John H. Jackson, a law professor at Georgetown University who specializes in international trade. He offered three common-sense criticisms: the system punishes the wrong people, helps the wrong people and gives little incentive for the people who make policy to change.
Punishing the wrong people works two ways. First, retaliatory tariffs hurt people the same way other tariffs do. They not only take business away from companies abroad, but they also raise costs and prices for importers and consumers at home.
The retaliating countries have to hurt themselves to hurt others. It would be better, economically, if the trade organization required an offending country to lower other trade barriers until it eliminated the one that prompted the dispute. Doing so would violate the country's sovereignty, though, and that's one thing the W.T.O. can't do.
Retaliatory tariffs also punish the wrong people by hurting industries unaffected by the illegal trade barriers. The retaliatory tariffs by the United States in the beef case do not punish the beef industry in the European Union; the United States has not imported European beef for years because of objections to heavy subsidies and worries about mad cow and foot-and-mouth diseases. So the United States also put tariffs on European exports like mustard, tomatoes and chocolate.
This is a windfall for American mustard, tomato and chocolate producers, none of which were hurt by the union's ban. America's beef producers have complained that they have not benefited from the retaliation.
"We've always said from the beginning that these tariffs and all this retaliation stuff don't do us any good," said Chandler Keys, vice president for public policy at the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. "We just wish the European Union would comply with the W.T.O. ruling."
GETTING the European Union to comply, by lifting its ban on American beef, will not be easy. The retaliatory tariffs exercise no direct pressure on the policy makers in Brussels. The United States can only hope that aggrieved mustard, tomato and chocolate producers will call their legislators and complain loudly enough to effect a change.
That may work, after a time: the European Union agreed to dismantle its system of tariffs and quotas for importing bananas last year, after suffering $191 million a year in retaliatory American tariffs since 1999. In the meantime, American banana exporters paid the price: Chiquita says the European Union's system, which began in 1993, helped to send it into bankruptcy.
Ecuador, a big exporter of bananas, joined the United States in complaining to the W.T.O. about the European Union's import rules. Had Ecuador retaliated against the European Union alone, it might not have succeeded. Its imports from the union are negligible, so it can't apply much financial pressure simply by imposing new tariffs.
"It has been pointed out by the smaller countries of the world that the system is very asymmetric," Professor Jackson said. "It's just a pinprick for them against the big countries.
"What we really should be working on is an ethical sense driven home to the countries that they have an obligation to perform under the dispute settlement process," he added. Good luck.

GRAPHIC: Chart: The United States has placed retaliatory tariffs on these goods from the European Union: ChocolateLiver pateOnionsPrepared mustardRaspberry jamRaw yarnRoquefort cheeseSmoked hamsTomatoesTruffles (Source: United States Trade Representative)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); BEEF (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); MEATS (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (71%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (71%); TAX LAW (69%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (66%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (64%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; STEEL AND IRON 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



790 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
Within Companies, Too, Education Proves Its Value

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Annandale, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SHARES of companies that spend the most on employee training and development outperform those that spend the least, a study has found.
Nothing is new, of course, about the idea that in a so-called knowledge economy, a company's success depends greatly on the collective skills of its employees -- its human capital. Companies that invest more in developing that capital should fare better.
 For many years, however, investors had a big question about that investment theory: How can it be put into practice? Until recently, it was next to impossible to rank companies according to how much they spent on employee training and education. After all, companies typically do not report such expenditures on a separate line on their income statements, and annual reports and public pronouncements aren't much help, either, because they may pay only lip service to the notion that employees are the most important asset of a business. 
 Those practical barriers were lowered in the mid-1990's, when the American Society for Training and Development, a nonprofit group, created a database with standardized information on employee training expenditures at hundreds of publicly traded companies. That database allowed companies to be ranked according to their training expenditures, and for portfolios to be constructed based on those rankings.
Over the last five years, these portfolios performed as the theory predicts, according to a working paper by four researchers: Paul Harrison, an economist in the research and statistics division at the Federal Reserve Bank; Jens O. Ludwig, an associate professor of public policy at Georgetown University; Laurie J. Bassi, chairwoman of Knowledge Asset Management; and Daniel P. McMurrer, chief research officer of that money management firm, which aims to use this research in managing clients' investments.
Companies that ranked in the top 20 percent or so in spending on training and development would have earned an average of 16.2 percent, annualized, in the five years through 2001, or 6.5 percentage points a year more than the Wilshire 5000 index. Better yet, that market-beating performance was produced with about 10 percent less risk, as measured by the volatility of returns. Currently, that list of companies includes Accenture, Agilent Technologies, Allstate, Capital One Financial, Corning, FedEx, First Consulting Group, I.B.M., Intel, NCR and Storage Technology.
Over those same five years, companies at the bottom of the training-expense rankings had significantly lower returns. And the researchers obviously couldn't include companies that did not report training expenses and presumably performed even worse. 
Skeptics might worry about the objectivity of the results, given that the American Society for Training and Development is dedicated to encouraging companies to spend more on employee education. But the researchers focused only the performance of these companies after they had been identified by the society, so hindsight bias is not likely to be an issue.
Two standard caveats apply to the research. Because the data go back only five years, it is too early to predict confidently that the pattern, though crystal clear so far, will persist in coming years.
Second, knowledge of a strategy's profit potential can kill it, as more and more investors try to exploit it. But I am not particularly worried about that effect in this case, because Wall Street puts intense pressure on companies to increase current earnings by cutting expenses like those for employee training. Such expenses also carry indirect short-term costs, like reduced productivity while employees are being trained.
As a result, companies that resist short-term pressure and spend heavily on training are likely to remain few. The new research, however, suggests that investors will be rewarded for betting on them.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Knowledge Is Profit"According to a new study, a portfolio of companies that spent heavily on training their workers would have outperformed the overall stock market from 1997 to 2001. Graph shows the S.& P. 500 index top 20 percent of companies, ranked by spending on training (Source: Knowledge Asset Management)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE TRAINING (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RANKINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ANNUAL REPORTS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); NEW ECONOMY (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); BONDS (72%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (70%); STATISTICS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%) LABOR; CORPORATIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES INC (63%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (63%); ALLSTATE CORP (54%); ACCENTURE PLC (54%); COMPUTER SCIENCES CORP (52%); INTEL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

TICKER: A (NYSE) (63%); COF (NYSE) (63%); ALL (NYSE) (54%); ACN (NYSE) (54%); CSC (NYSE) (52%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



791 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Smiles And Frowns In Higher Oil Prices

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
NO one is ringing alarms yet, but in the last month or so oil prices have started to bubble. 
 A run-up of $5 to $6 in the price per barrel is both good news and bad news. As the economy has improved, so has demand for crude oil. But the spike in oil prices two years ago definitely contributed to the recent recession. 
 The improving prospects of petroleum have clearly helped oil stocks: the American Stock Exchange Oil Index rose 8.8 percent in the first quarter, trouncing the performance of major market benchmarks. 
Steven A. Pfeifer, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, took some time last week to talk about Big Oil. Following are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. What caused the run-up in crude oil prices?

A. Several things have come together in the last month. The first is that inventories have declined for six straight weeks in the United States, something we haven't seen since last summer.
Second, OPEC has had a very high level of compliance with the production cuts they called for. They agreed to take five million barrels per day off the market, and have achieved about 85 percent of that. Anything over 70 percent is considered strong compliance. And there may be some premium in the price due to concerns about Iraq.

Q. Should we expect a rise in gasoline prices if this inventory drain continues?

A. Inventories in Europe and Asia are about normal, and the U.S. had an inventory surplus when the economy started to slow. That surplus has started to decline, and inventories are expected to be below normal as we move through the second quarter.
That suggests gasoline prices will be moving up, but it is still too early to tell if we will have price spikes of the magnitude we had last year or the year before. 
One thing that could perhaps help mute a gasoline price increase is that some refineries, which were down in the first quarter for maintenance, will be up again in the second quarter.

Q. Lack of refining capacity was an issue a couple of years ago. Is it still a problem?

A. No new major refineries have been built, and some small ones have closed. As the economy comes back and demand improves, that will quickly be reflected in straining existing capacity.
There are two reasons why no new refineries have been built: first, environmental regulations associated with the Clean Air Act make it difficult to expand refineries, let alone build new ones. And returns on refining in the last 20 years have been too low to justify new investment.

Q. Oil stocks were not world beaters two years ago, when oil prices spiked as high as $36 a barrel. Investors seemed to put a ceiling on the stocks because they did not believe per-barrel prices north of $30 were sustainable. Are things different now?

A. There is increasing evidence that the normalized oil price has moved into the mid-$20 range. In 2000, oil averaged a little over $30 a barrel with a growing economy. Even with a very weak global economy last year, prices only briefly went below $20 a barrel.
OPEC is very focused on making sure oil doesn't go above $30 a barrel. They don't want the market to overheat, which could be a negative for the economy.

Q. Some people say Russia, which is not part of OPEC, could upset things by producing a lot of oil. Is that a possibility?

A. The role of Russia as a swing producer has been overblown, in our opinion.
Russia is growing its production volume, but to understand the broader market you need to understand the growth in non-OPEC supply, which is expanding less quickly than it was in the 1990's. 
Back then, each year non-OPEC supply was growing 1 to 1.2 million barrels per day. Right now, it is only growing at a rate of 700,000 to 800,000 barrels per day.

Q. You like oil stocks, yet their prices are up. Why? Which stocks do you like?

A. Over the past three years, integrated oil stocks have enjoyed their best stock market performance since the 1970's. As measured by the Standard & Poor's 500 index, they outperformed the stock market by 18 percent in 2000, by 11 percent last year and by a little over 8 percent so far this year.
The stocks have been very attractively valued. Integrated oil stocks are trading at an average of about 13 times 2003 earnings, assuming a $24 oil price. 
Our particular favorites are Phillips Petroleum, Amerada Hess, BP and TotalFinaElf. Those companies are best positioned to grow oil and gas production while many of the other majors are struggling to grow. 
In this market, which is much more focused on issues like dividends and cash flow, many of these companies are offering dividend yields of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent. They have strong cash flows and earnings that are very visible. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pfeifer 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); PLANT CAPACITY (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); BONDS (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (67%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NYSE MKT LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; PFEIFER, STEVEN A 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



792 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Youth Will Be Served at This Year's New York Auto Show 

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE KREBS

 BODY:
BABY boomers, you're ancient history.
 For decades, automakers have pandered to the 76 million Americans born from 1946 to 1964 as they grow ever more gray, paunchy and affluent. And at auto shows, car companies got boomers' attention in recent years with fancy luxury cars and rugged-looking sport utilities. 
 But the 2002 New York International Auto Show, which runs through April 7 at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, has a body-pierced, baggy-pants style. Exhibitors are trying to grab younger generations, many of them still too young to drive, with new sorts of vehicles, some of which defy definition. 
The youth market is alluring. By 2010, there will be 70 million potential drivers among the echo boomers born from 1977 to 1994. The industry is approaching this huge market with some apprehension, since research indicates that media-smart young people resist categorization and resent being the targets of blatant marketing campaigns. They also, like previous generations, reject what their parents drove -- which in this case includes minivans and traditional wagon-style sport utility vehicles.
Toyota, which has had incredible success with an aging group of customers, used the show to introduce a new subbrand called Scion, aimed at capturing prospective buyers who are just reaching their 20's. Toyota dealers will sell Scion vehicles -- the Toyota name will not appear on the cars -- in specially designated areas within existing dealerships. Two concept vehicles displayed at the show, the boxy bbX -- known as the Black Box in Japan, where it was designed -- and the swoopy ccX, hint at the designs of the first Scion vehicles. Scions will go on sale in June 2003 for less than $18,000.
The Honda Element, a box-on-wheels, is aimed specifically at young men. Honda executives say it is designed to be a combination of dorm room and base camp for young people involved in active sports like surfing or kayaking. The Element has a hose-down interior, flat floor and back seats that fold up for storage along the cabin walls. The Element goes on sale in December for $16,000 to $21,000. Features include an MP3 player and video game outlets as well as doors that swing open from the middle, with no pillar between.
At General Motors, a new small Saturn, the Ion, will replace the S-Series car that inaugurated the Saturn brand in 1991. The Ion will be available later this year as a five-passenger four-door sedan and a four-passenger "quad coupe." An industry first, the quad cab has two normal front-hinged doors and two small doors that provide access to the rear seat when the front doors are open. The car's 2.2-liter 137-horsepower four-cylinder engine is paired to a variable transmission that shifts continuously, rather than at fixed gear ratios, for high efficiency and improved fuel economy.
Mitsubishi, whose buyers are already among the industry's youngest, introduced the 2003 Outlander, a stylish five-passenger compact sport utility. With a starting price of less than $18,000, the boldly styled Outlander has an interior that resembles that of the Eclipse sports coupe.
Baby boomers have not been forgotten altogether. The auto show still features plenty of what they like, including new sport utilities, luxury cars and vehicles that are combinations of the two. Among these combination "crossovers" is the 2003 Nissan Murano, which will go on sale in the fall as Nissan's first entry in the fast-growing market for car-based sport wagons that can be equipped with all-wheel drive. The Murano, which is sleeker and less wagonlike than many crossovers, is built on the platform of the new Altima sedan.
More traditional luxury sport utilities were also on display. The 2003 Lincoln Aviator, which goes on sale in late summer, is the first midsize sport utility from Ford's domestic-luxury division. Isuzu, which is partly owned by General Motors, is adding another sport utility to its lineup. The Isuzu Ascender is yet another variation on G.M.'s midsize S.U.V.'s. The Ascender will come with three rows of seats that can accommodate seven passengers. 
The Infiniti luxury division of Nissan introduced a new rear-drive sedan, the M45. It will fit between the newly introduced G35 sport sedan and the flagship Q45 luxury car, with which it will share its 340-horsepower 4.5-liter V-8 engine.
Two automakers also displayed luxury performance concept vehicles. Acura brought a 400-horsepower hybrid-electric sport sedan called the DN-X. It combines a 300-horsepower V-6 engine with three electric motors that produce an additional 100 horsepower. And BMW showcased the CS1 concept car that it introduced earlier at the Geneva auto show. The CS1 foreshadows the design of small BMW's in the future, including a 1 Series that will arrive within a couple of years. 
Ford showed sketches of a new family sedan it will build to compete against the Toyota Avalon and Chevrolet Impala. The Five Hundred, a name borrowed from the Galaxie 500 of the '60's, will go on sale in 2004. The Five Hundred will be larger than the Taurus with a much more spacious interior and higher seating position. It will be built alongside the coming CrossTrainer, a car-based sport utility.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BMW CS1 concept car; Toyota Scion bbX; Mitsubishi Outlander; Saturn Ion sedan; Lincoln Aviator; Nissan Murano; Ford Five Hundred; Honda Element; Infiniti M45 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); BABY BOOMERS (91%); HISTORY (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); SEDANS (77%); YOUTH MARKET (75%); SURFING (72%); GENERATION Y (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (83%); TM (NYSE) (83%); 7203 (TSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



793 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: STAPLETON; 
A Borough's Old Naval Base Gives It Silver Screen Dreams

BYLINE:  By JIM O'GRADY 

 BODY:
Call it Hollywood on the Harbor. As proposals to build film studios at the Brooklyn Navy Yard and other city sites attract much publicity, one company has quietly been making plans to turn the Staten Island Homeport, a former naval base, into New York's next big film complex.
 The area is a narrow slice of waterfront in the northeastern part of the island, with glorious views of Lower Manhattan and the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. Since the Pentagon closed the base in 1994, it has lain underused because few developers could figure out what to do with the six large warehouselike buildings that cover most of its 36 acres. 
 But Robert E. DiMilia, the president of Stapleton Studios, decided they would be perfect for soundstages. In January, Mr. DiMilia persuaded the city's Economic Development Corporation, which manages the site, to give him six months to show that he could build a 14,000-square-foot soundstage in what was an industrial freezer in one building. 
"It's 90 percent done," said Mr. DiMilia, who has worked in the film industry for 30 years and produced such films as "Dirty Laundry," a 1998 movie with Tess Harper and Jay Thomas.
The corporation will review the work in June. If it approves, he can start the next phase of development. Mr. DiMilia ultimately wants to turn the site into a major film complex with 10 soundstages, a hotel, marina and waterfront esplanade. He estimated the project would cost $150 million and take more than two years to build.
Like any budding mogul, Mr. DiMilia has learned to drop names. 
"We have talked to Woody Allen's people and Bob Altman's people," he said. "They have been to the site and like what they see."
The city also seems to approve of the work. "They're doing state-of-the-art construction," said Janel Patterson, a corporation spokeswoman. "They've done more than they agreed to do initially."
She does not think a new studio would divert business from Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, Silvercup Studios in Long Island City or other film complexes. "The demand for more studio space in New York is there," she said.
Mr. DiMilia agreed. "We're looking to recapture some of the $4 billion of production that goes to Canada each year," he said.
One Stapleton homeowner, Cynthia Mailman, already has a plan if the films come. 
"What I'm going to do is sign up to be an extra," she said. JIM O'GRADY

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 14,000-square-foot soundstage is being built in a onetime freezer. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAVIES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); APPROVALS (70%) MOTION PICTURES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC); STAPLETON STUDIOS 

PERSON: O'GRADY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; STATEN ISLAND (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



794 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Forbes L. Watson; 
Centura Mid Cap Equity Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
FORBES L. WATSON, who runs the $160 million Centura Mid Cap Equity fund, looks for midsize companies that are poised to expand greatly overseas.
 "You typically don't see overseas operations in smaller companies, and you expect them in bigger companies," he said from his office in Jackson, Miss. "But most midsize companies with the right products and distribution have big potential overseas." 
The fund returned 13.8 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, versus 4.4 percent for its peer group of midcap growth funds and a 2.4 percent decline in the Standard & Poor's 500 index, according to Morningstar Inc. It gained 19.5 percent in the last 12 months, versus a decline of 2.2 percent for its group and a gain of 0.9 percent in the S.& P. 500. 
Mr. Watson, 41, works for Glenwood Capital Management, the fund's adviser, which is based in Raleigh, N.C. Glenwood, which manages about $1.5 billion, is a unit of the Royal Bank of Canada.
Mr. Watson describes himself as a "growth at a reasonable price" investor. He picks the fund's roughly 150 stocks from among United States companies with market capitalizations of $1.5 billion to $5 billion; the median market cap for the portfolio is about $4 billion.
He allocates the fund's assets about equally among the 10 economic sectors in the S.& P. 400 midcap index, which includes stocks with market caps of $300 million to $10 billion; the weighting of individual sectors must be within two percentage points of their weighting in the index.
Within sectors, Mr. Watson looks for companies with the potential for above-average earnings and cash-flow growth. His goal is stock price appreciation of at least 15 percent in the next 12 months.
He uses computer screens to find companies with low price-to-earnings multiples relative both to their own history and to their competitors. Over all, the portfolio companies trade for 22.5 times estimated 2002 earnings, versus a multiple of 21.5 for the S.& P. 400 midcap index.
Mr. Watson also screens for strong cash flow. "This tells me how the company will be able to finance its future," he said.
One consideration is the ownership stake of a company's officers and directors. "Our companies are still small enough so that there's the potential for meaningful amount of ownership by the people managing the firm," he said. Ideally, he prefers that directors and officers own 2 to 10 percent of a company, depending on its size.
Most important, he wants management with a clear business model: "Our question is, do they have the people, the capital equipment and the other resources they need available right now to implement their business plan today and over time?"
Mr. Watson does not trade often, relatively speaking; the fund's turnover is 66 percent, versus 153 percent, on average, for midcap growth funds, Morningstar said.
In September 1999, Mr. Watson began buying shares of American Standard, the bathroom fixtures, air-conditioning and auto parts business based in Piscataway, N.J. He paid $41.25 a share, on average; the stock now trades at $70.75.
American Standard, with a market cap of about $5.1 billion has been steadily increasing overseas sales, to about 45 percent of revenue, Mr. Watson said, and officers and directors own 3 percent of the shares. Wall Street expects three-year earnings growth to average 14 percent a year.
HE also likes the SPX Corporation, an industrial products company based in Muskegon, Mich., that has a market cap of roughly $5.8 billion. SPX sells products including valves and fire detection equipment. He has been buying shares since November 1998, paying an average of $89.19; they now trade at $141.58. 
"The best time to buy a multi-industry company is when it's building a global presence, which is what SPX is doing now," Mr. Watson said. Overseas sales account for 13 percent of revenue, he said, and analysts' consensus for earnings growth is 15 percent a year over three years.
In April 2001, Mr. Watson started buying shares of Golden State Bancorp, a $4 billion company in San Francisco that operates California Federal Bank and First Nationwide Mortgage. The company sells for nine times projected 2002 earnings, versus a multiple of 10 to 12 for its competitors, Mr. Watson said, and managment has a 46 percent stake -- higher than his usual range.
"Management has stated publicly that it will enhance shareholder value by selling itself or acquiring another company," he said. He paid an average of $27.79 for the shares; they now trade at $29.69.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The manager of Centura Mid Cap Equity, Forbes L. Watson, is a "growth at a reasonable price" investor. He seeks low price-to-earnings ratios and strong cash flow. (Hubert Worley for The New York Times) Chart: "Centura Mid Cap Equity"Category: Midcap growthNet assets: $160 millionInception: June 1994Manager: Forbes L. Watson since August 1998Minimum purchase: $1,000 ($1,000 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 66%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 13.8%Category average4.4% Sector breakdown Financials: 19%Other: 29%Technology: 18%Health care: 14%Consumer discretionary: 13%Energy: 7% Fees Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.06% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); BONDS (75%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (84%); MORNINGSTAR INC (70%)

TICKER: RY (TSX) (84%); RY (SWX) (84%); RY (NYSE) (84%); MORN (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; WATSON, FORBES L 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (90%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



795 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Is the Best Already Past For Furniture Makers?

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE LEDER 

 BODY:
SHARES of major furniture makers outperformed the market last year, but with the economy strengthening, the companies may not fare as well this year, some analysts say.
 Among the biggest companies in the $23 billion wholesale furniture market is Furniture Brands International, based in St. Louis; its brands include Broyhill, Lane and Thomasville, as well as three added in a recent acquisition: Henredon, Drexel Heritage and Maitland-Smith. On March 4, after the company advised that its earnings were likely to be 5 cents a share higher than expected for the year, the stock hit a new 52-week high of $41.10. 
 It ended last week at $36.45, but it is still up more than 13 percent for the year. Other large manufacturers, including La-Z-Boy Inc. of Monroe, Mich., and Ethan Allen Interiors of Danbury, Conn., have also performed well in recent months. La-Z-Boy now trades at $27.45, up almost 26 percent for the year, and Ethan Allen closed last week at $38.06, down nearly 8.5 percent for the year.
Analysts predict that pent-up demand for furniture among recession-weary shoppers is likely to bolster sales and earnings in coming months. Furniture shipments dropped by 10 percent last year but are expected to increase by 4 percent this year, according to the American Furniture Manufacturers Association. The housing market remains strong, according to recent home-sales figures, and analysts say furniture sales tend to lag behind housing sales by about six months. 
But furniture stocks tend to be cyclical. They have performed poorly when interest rates begin to rise, as looks likely this year.
"There's a lot more risk today in some of these names than when they were trading in the $20's," said Beryl Bugatch, a furniture analyst at Raymond James Financial in St. Petersburg, Fla. Still, Mr. Bugatch currently has strong-buy ratings on Furniture Brands and Ethan Allen, with 12-month price targets of $48 on the two companies.
Wall Street's consensus earnings estimates for Furniture Brands are $2.37 a share this year and $2.83 for 2003, according to figures compiled by Thomson Financial/First Call. For Ethan Allen, the expected numbers are $2.12 this year and $2.44 in 2003, and for La-Z-Boy, $1.19 and $1.44.
Susie Hultquist, an analyst at Liberty Wanger Asset Management, which owns more than 650,000 shares of Furniture Brands in the Liberty Acorn fund, says the Wall Street estimates are too low. Using what she considers a conservative estimate, Ms. Hultquist said she expects Furniture Brands to earn at least $2.40 a share this year and more than $3 a share next year. 
"This company is not the same as it was in 2001," she said, referring to the company's acquisitions and reduced debt and payroll. "This stock has significant room to grow."
At year-end, Furniture Brands bought Henredon, Drexel Heritage and Maitland-Smith for about $275 million from LifeStyle Furnishings International, a privately held company. Ms. Hultquist called the acquisition "a huge opportunity" to increase market share and profit margins.
Lynn Chipperfield, the chief administrative officer at Furniture Brands, said the high-end furniture market, hit hard in 2001, was poised to rebound this year. Before the acquisition, Thomasville was the company's most upscale brand. Mr. Chipperfield added that Henredon, Drexel-Heritage and Maitland-Smith, which make higher-end furniture, all have healthy profit margins. 
"These are not fixer-uppers," Mr. Chipperfield said.
But Margaret M. Whelan, a furniture industry analyst at UBS Warburg, said she believed that the three acquisitions were ill-advised. Furniture companies in general are facing increased pressure from overseas manufacturers, she said. "This is a lousy industry period," Ms. Whelan said.
She has a hold rating on both Furniture Brands and La-Z-Boy, but she does rate Ethan Allen a buy and has a 12-month price target of $45 on the stock. "It has a good product, good brand name and good price points," she said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Sturdy for Now"Some furniture companies, including Furniture Brands International and Ethan Allen Interiors, outperformed the stock market last year. Graph shows the S.& P. 500, Ethan Allen Interiors, and Furniture Brands International shares for the year. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE MFG (94%); WOOD FURNITURE MFG (90%); FURNITURE STORES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); STATISTICS (74%); SHIPMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%) FURNITURE 

COMPANY: LA-Z-BOY INC (83%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); FURNITURE BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC (56%); RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL INC (53%); RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (53%); WANGER ASSET MANAGEMENT (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LA-Z-BOY CO; FURNITURE BRANDS INTERNATIONAL; ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC 

TICKER: LZB (NYSE) (83%); FBN (NYSE) (58%); ETH (NYSE) (56%); RJF (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (83%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (58%); NAICS337122 NONUPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (58%); SIC2511 WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE EX. UPHOLSTERED (58%); SIC2515 MATTRESSES, FOUNDATIONS, & CONVERTIBLE BEDS (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%) SIC2511 WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE; 

PERSON: LEDER, MICHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



796 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST VILLAGE; 
The Hot Dog Wars Heat Up, and It's Not Just the Mustard That's Spicy

BYLINE:  By KYTJA WEIR 

 BODY:
Joe Anastasio was strolling around the East Village when his eye caught a chalkboard outside an Eighth Street storefront. The message, more or less: The hell with yoga, I'm having a chili dog. Whoever had scribbled those words had attributed them to Sri Chinmoy, a guru and running enthusiast. 
 Above the chalkboard, along with some highly suggestive -- some would say offensive -- language, a six-foot-long red plastic hot dog juts from the building like a flagpole. 
 The advertising is on behalf of Crif Dogs, a six-month-old restaurant and one of the latest hot dog shops to dot this increasingly trendy neighborhood. It takes its name from its owner Chris Antista -- because Crif sounds like Chris "if you have a mouth full of hot dogs," Mr. Antista said. Crif's competes against Dawgs on Park, less than two blocks away, and a shop advertising chili dogs around the corner. It also challenges Gray's Papaya, eight blocks to the west, plus a bevy of hot dog vendors in local parks. With so much competition, Mr. Antista must work hard to get his dogs noticed.
He changes the chalkboard messages daily, writing made-up quotes and tagging them with such well-known names as Freud and, no surprise, Gen. Tommy R. Franks, who is leading the American military assault in Afghanistan. 
His print ads go even further. One, in The Onion, the satiric newspaper, said, "To all the pigs and cows who have courageously sacrificed their lives for deliciousness, we thank you!"
But not everyone is a fan.
"I thought the sign was a bit much," said Peter Silvestri, who owns the vegan bakery across the street. "But this is the East Village. Let's have a creative nature about things."
A few disapproving citizens have complained to Mr. Antista about his street-side shenanigans, but he dismisses them: "If you can't take a joke, we don't want you here. It's a hot dog joint. It's what makes this place great."
The signs clearly have not discouraged fans. Cellphone-carrying lunchers wearing ill-fitting thrift-shop clothes occupy tables next to Roman Catholic schoolgirls and tattoo artists and munch on specialties like the Chihuahua, a deep-fried bacon-wrapped dog topped with avocado and jalapenos. 
One customer spent over an hour eating one dog after another while playing "Grand Theft Auto 3" on Crif's Sony PlayStation.
A few hundred Crif customers even carry laminated membership cards, which carry a slightly crass name and entitle them to free drink refills, 25 percent off their tabs on Mondays and the privilege of cutting ahead of other customers at the cash register.
Offering such perks helps Mr. Antista compete in the increasingly tight dog market. Dawgs on Park sells jackets for dogs to wear and displays photos of customers' dogs under the glass-topped counter. Gray's Papaya pitches its "recession special" of two dogs and a drink for $2.45.
At Crif's, the priciest dog is $3.75, though extras can bring the price to $5. Such cheap lunches appeal to Andrew Kist, a freelance photographer who sometimes entertains his clients here. 
Nutritionists dismiss hot dogs, but Mr. Antista, who keeps two kinds of antacid by the register, says, "They aren't as bad for you as people think they are." 
Then he reverses himself: "Who am I kidding? Yeah, they are." But he eats one every day. "I could eat two a day," he confessed. "Man, they're so good." KYTJA WEIR

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chris Antista will sell you a hot dog, if you can take a joke. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); PORK (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (75%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); MARATHONS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); MEAT FREE DIETS (57%); RELIGION (50%) RESTAURANTS; FRANKFURTERS 

ORGANIZATION: CRIF DOGS (NYC HOT DOG SHOP) 

PERSON: ANTISTA, CHRIS; WEIR, KYTJA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



797 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Empty Nest Eggs; 
Do You Plan To Retire? Think Again

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
IN all the debate over Enron, no one is confronting a much larger issue raised by the scandal: the day is quickly approaching when millions of Americans will not have enough money when they retire, even if they escape the losses that so many Enron employees suffered.
 Americans have traditionally relied on Social Security and, whenever possible, company-paid pension plans to support them in old age. Social Security still holds up its end. But the company plans are disappearing, and their replacement, 401(k) accounts, which people use to save for their own retirement, are falling short. Many Americans are simply not saving enough. 
 The Enron debacle made painfully clear how easy it is for employees to lose their 401(k) savings, particularly if the money is invested in one company's stock and the stock tanks. Congress is considering legislation that would prevent such risk. 
What Congress is not considering, however -- at least not publicly -- is whether 40l(k) savings are enough, even when they are well invested. In fact, Labor Department data show that the average balance in such accounts is too meager to pay for more than two or three years of retirement.
Is there a better way? Most pension experts and many economists say there is. The political winds, however, are blowing hard against them. After all, Democrats and Republicans alike have embraced the view that too much of the national income already goes to older people, mainly through payroll taxes for Social Security. Better to divert some of this money to education, the military, highways and the like, the thinking goes, and make up any retirement shortfall by pushing people to save enough on their own.
Corporate America has certainly lobbied for this approach; companies have found that 401(k) accounts are less expensive to support than the old company-guaranteed pensions, even allowing for company contributions to the 401(k) plans. And the Bush administration, pushing to convert some of Social Security into private savings accounts, issued a report recently that encouraged people to increase their savings and learn to invest them wisely.
"We as a nation have chosen to have a voluntary retirement system" as the second-tier pension on top of Social Security, said Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. "The problem is, there are a lot of ways to fall through the cracks."
That second tier has mushroomed. Congress authorized 401(k) accounts in 1978, allowing workers to defer taxes on retirement savings. The intent was to supplement company plans, not displace them. But that is what is happening. By 1998, the latest year for which Labor Department figures are available, 27 percent of the more than 100 million privately employed Americans had 401(k) accounts to supplement Social Security in retirement. An additional 15 percent had both 401(k)'s and company-paid pensions. Yet the percentage of workers with only a company-paid pension on top of Social Security plummeted to 7 percent in 1998, from 28 percent in 1979. 
DURING this period, no group has had more time to accumulate savings in 401(k)'s than people now in their late 50's and early 60's. Some in this age group have built their accounts into rich nest eggs, but many others have not. Inadequate incomes, imprudence, unlucky investments, college costs, alimony, layoff, self-indulgence -- all these factors help explain the failure to save enough. By 1998, the average amount accumulated by this group in 401(k) accounts was only $57,000. That represents less than four years of monthly pension payments paid out in a typical company-paid plan.
"I have looked at people who have exactly the same income, and the amount of variation in what they save is enormous," said James P. Smith, a labor economist at the RAND Corporation, a research organization. "There are people with low incomes who save more than people with high incomes. The fact is that some people are prudent and others are not."
For Mr. Smith, the combination of Social Security and individual retirement accounts is sufficient to get 80 percent of the population through retirement with pensions equal to 50 percent or more of preretirement income, a standard for an adequate retirement. The 20 percent who are falling through the cracks are the only issue for Mr. Smith. "That is the debate that is not taking place," he said.
But other economists and pension experts argue that the answer to the unasked question, "Is there a better way?" should provoke a much broader debate. While Mr. Smith wants to talk about encouraging saving and providing a safety net for the destitute, other experts favor an alternate approach in which employees would pool their retirement savings. From these pooled savings, pensions would be paid in fixed amounts promised in advance.
Social Security already operates this way, in effect pooling savings through payroll taxes. Company-paid pension plans are also pooled systems in which companies commit themselves to pay the promised pensions to retired employees, drawing on money that would otherwise go into wages. These pools can also be set up by occupation or industry -- all lawyers or all carpenters, for example.
Still another idea is to enrich Social Security, creating a pension system similar to those in Europe.
THE greatest advantage of pooled savings is almost never mentioned in public debate: these pools essentially operate as insurance plans. When a retiree dies at, say, age 68, the money accumulated in the pool to pay his pension is channeled to retirees who live longer. People who depend on individual 401(k) accounts, in contrast, must each save enough to finance many years of retirement. 
Teresa Ghilarducci, an economist and pension expert at the University of Notre Dame, has made a rough calculation of the lower costs embedded in pooled savings plans. If 10 people who reflect the life spans of the general population were to pool their savings, she says, the required amount would be 23 percent less than if each of the 10, expecting to live past 80, saved for retirement in individual accounts. Projected nationally, that amounts to hundreds of billions of dollars that would not have to be raised for retirement.
What people do hear about, on the other hand, are the costs borne by taxpayers -- not only to sustain Social Security but to guarantee that pooled private pension plans pay off as promised. By law, companies are required to pay insurance premiums to federal agencies so that in emergencies -- a bankruptcy, for example -- pensions can be paid out of federal coffers. 
The company-paid plans first appeared during World War II. Wage controls limited raises and the pension plans became an indirect way to increase pay packages. The plans flourished and spread in the prosperous decades after the war, and so did Social Security coverage. Then, in the late 70's, the 401(k) appeared, and with it the growing pressure for people to save for their own retirement. 
"Common sense dictates that we are going in the wrong direction and everyone in the pension business knows this," said Karen Ferguson, director of the Pension Rights Center, "but it is not in anyone's political interest to say so publicly."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some people have built healthy 401(k) accounts, but most have not. (Eyewire/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); US 401K PLANS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TRENDS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); AGING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); LOBBYING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; SAVINGS; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); RETIREMENT 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



798 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Good News/Bad News; 
Recession's Over. Trouble Still Lurks.

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IT was more of a dip than a downturn. The recession that started a year ago this month appears to have played itself out without having inflicted much serious damage, and to have given way to a speedy recovery.
 It was only the second time in two decades that the official arbiters of such things declared a recession, after doing so eight times in less than 40 years after World War II. Like its predecessor in 1990-91, this slowdown was shallow and brief. Some economists question whether it even qualified as a recession at all; it did not meet the popular definition of two consecutive quarters of declining economic output (it managed only one, last summer). 
 If the country could now count on recessions like this -- less frequent, shorter and less painful -- the implications would be substantial. Among other things, swings in joblessness would be less pronounced. Although the unemployment rate rose by 1.9 percentage points over the past few years, its recent peak of 5.8 percent in December was 5 full percentage points below where it was at the end of the last deep recession, in 1981-82, and 2 percentage points lower than its peak following the recession of the early 1990's.
Given all the forces that could have made the recession worse, not least the repercussions on consumers, companies and financial markets from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the quick turnaround was a testament to the American economy's flexibility and sheer power. 
And Alan Greenspan and the Federal Reserve certainly won plaudits for acting to cut interest rates aggressively even before it was clear that the economy was in danger. The tax cuts and additional spending passed by Congress last year did not hurt, either.
But there is concern among some economists that success in smoothing out the business cycle is breeding complacency about stubborn and potentially painful imbalances that the recession did little to address.
In particular, they say the economy's long-term stability remains threatened by excessive reliance on capital from abroad, high levels of corporate and individual debt, a bubblelike rise in home prices in some regions, the looming costs of paying retirement benefits to an aging population and the possibility of a meltdown in Japan.
"I'm wary," said Clyde Prestowitz, president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington research organization. "I share what I sense is the view of the Fed, which is that right now things are looking up, but that there's a lot of uncertainty out there, and a lot of snakes in the weeds."
Yet even the gloomiest economists have a hard time disputing that a remarkable amount of the pre-recession hype about the "new economy" was proved by the downturn to have some grounding in fact.
Perhaps the single most important lesson from the recession was that the improvement during the late 1990's in the growth rate of productivity -- the most basic measure of business efficiency and the best indicator of the economy's long-term growth potential -- was more than a flash in the pan. 
Productivity usually tails off in a recession. But in this downturn it held up well, and even surged at the end of last year to one of its highest levels in years, reflecting heavy investments by business in technology and their quick reactions to signs of weakness.
Stephen G. Cecchetti, an economics professor at Ohio State University, said the economy's resilience encompassed all three of its main components: the goods, labor and financial markets.
Companies that make things, he said, are using technology to keep better track of how well their products are selling and how much in the way of supplies and raw materials to keep on hand. In that way, he said, they have been able to speed up the process by which they pare down inventories in response to a slowdown in demand for their products, and build them back up again when demand increases -- one of the most basic engines of the business cycle.
At the same time, companies have been willing and able to pare their work forces when faced with falling sales, in part because of the growth in the proportion of workers who are hired on a temporary or part-time basis. By laying off employees quickly and cutting back hours, companies were able to improve productivity, and help maintain profitability, even during the downturn.
Innovations in finance also helped assure that companies and consumers had access to plenty of money even when times got tough. Banks proved willing to shovel money out the door in the form of home equity loans backed by soaring real estate values, putting cash into the hands of many families. Wall Street used new ways to finance corporate activity when traditional sources of funding, like banks and the bond market, dried up. Investment banks, for example, helped car companies finance zero-interest loans last fall in part by bundling loans together and selling them to investors. 
Yet the very ability of the economy to power through the recession without any major upheaval meant that this downturn did not focus policy makers and politicians on some of the less pressing but more insidious challenges to prosperity and stability.
"In general, when we have recessions there are excesses that need to be wrung out," said Dimitri B. Papadimitriou, president of the Levy Economics Institute at Bard College in New York. "Coming out of the recession, have we drawn out all the excesses? No. We have learned that private sector debt has reached levels not seen before and that we continue to have a structural problem in the foreign sector."
THERE is considerable debate among economists about the degree of the threat from some of the potential problems; there is no consensus, for example, on whether households and companies have saddled themselves with too much debt.
But there is widespread agreement about the threat posed by the continued expansion of the trade deficit and its cousin, the current account deficit, which measures flows of investment as well as goods and services. Put simply, the United States is borrowing huge sums from abroad to finance its trade deficit. 
For now, the rest of the world is happy to park its money here. At some point, though, foreigners will no doubt find more attractive places to invest, potentially setting off a withdrawal of capital from the United States, a decline in the value of the dollar, a surge in inflation and higher interest rates.
So there are plenty of signs that the economic party may be beginning again. But it's not clear that the hangover from the last bash has kicked in yet.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); TERRORISM (72%); AGING TRENDS (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); NEW ECONOMY (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); PERSONAL DEBT (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); TAX LAW (63%); WORLD WAR II (56%); AGING (50%); HOME PRICES (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



799 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
All Roads Lead To D.C.

BYLINE:  By EMILY EAKIN 

 BODY:
STRUGGLING to get a handle on American foreign policy? For starters, try dusting off your Livy and boning up on the Second Punic War. Or dip into a good history of 19th-century Britain, paying close attention to those dazzling military campaigns in the Middle East -- the Battle of Omdurman, say, or the Second Afghan War. 
 Today, America is no mere superpower or hegemon but a full-blown empire in the Roman and British sense. That, at any rate, is the consensus of some of the nation's most notable commentators and scholars. 
 "People are now coming out of the closet on the word empire," said the conservative columnist Charles Krauthammer. "The fact is no country has been as dominant culturally, economically, technologically and militarily in the history of the world since the Roman Empire."
Americans are used to being told -- typically by resentful foreigners -- that they're imperialists. But lately some of the nation's own eminent thinkers are embracing the idea. More astonishing, they are using the term with approval. From the isolationist right to the imperialist-bashing left, a growing number of experts are issuing stirring paeans to American empire.
The Weekly Standard kicked off the parade early last fall with "The Case for American Empire," by The Wall Street Journal's editorial features editor, Max Boot. Quoting the title of Patrick Buchanan's last book, "America, A Republic, not an Empire," Mr. Boot said, "This analysis is exactly backward: the September 11 attack was a result of insufficient American involvement and ambition; the solution is to be more expansive in our goals and more assertive in their implementation." 
Calling for the military occupation of Afghanistan and Iraq, Mr. Boot cited the stabilizing effect of 19th-century British rule in the region. "Afghanistan and other troubled lands today," he wrote, "cry out for the sort of enlightened foreign administration once provided by self-confident Englishmen in jodphurs and pith helmets." 
Since then, the empire idea has caught on. In January, Charles H. Fairbanks, a foreign policy expert at Johns Hopkins University, told an audience at Michigan State University that America was "an empire in formation." Last month, a Yale University professor, Paul Kennedy -- who 10 years ago was predicting America's ruin from imperial overreach -- went further.
"Nothing has ever existed like this disparity of power," Mr. Kennedy wrote in The Financial Times of London. "The Pax Britannica was run on the cheap, Britain's army was much smaller than European armies and even the Royal Navy was equal only to the next two navies -- right now all the other navies in the world combined could not dent American maritime supremacy. Napoleon's France and Philip II's Spain had powerful foes and were part of a multipolar system. Charlemagne's empire was merely western European in its stretch. The Roman Empire stretched further afield, but there was another great empire in Persia and a larger one in China. There is no comparison."
The most extended statement from the empire camp to date is "Warrior Politics: Why Leadership Demands a Pagan Ethos" (Random House, 2001), a recent book by the journalist Robert D. Kaplan. 
Arguing that "times have changed less than we think," Mr. Kaplan suggests the nation's leaders turn to ancient Greek and Roman chroniclers -- as well as Winston Churchill's 1899 account of the British conquest of the Sudan -- for helpful hints about how to navigate today's world. He devotes a chapter to the Second Punic War ("Rome's victory in the Second Punic War, like America's in World War II, made it a universal power") and one to the cunning Emperor Tiberius. Granted, the emperor was something of a despot, writes Mr. Kaplan. Still, he "combined diplomacy with the threat of force to preserve a peace that was favorable to Rome." 
IF that sounds familiar, you've got the right idea. "Our future leaders could do worse than be praised for their tenacity, their penetrating intellects and their ability to bring prosperity to distant parts of the world under America's soft imperial influence," Mr. Kaplan writes. "The more successful our foreign policy, the more leverage America will have in the world. Thus, the more likely that future historians will look back on 21st-century United States as an empire as well as a republic, however different from that of Rome and every other empire throughout history."
Classicists may scoff at the idea that democratic America has much in common with the tyrannical Rome of Augustus or Nero. But the empire camp points out that however unlikely the comparison, America has often behaved like a conquering empire. As Mr. Kennedy put it, "From the time the first settlers arrived in Virginia from England and started moving westward, this was an imperial nation, a conquering nation." 
America's imperial behavior continues today. "The United States has bases or base rights in 40 countries," he said. "In the assault on Al Qaeda and the Taliban, they moved warships from Britain, Japan, Germany, Southern Spain and Italy. So while Joe Public might say we are not like those old empires -- and we resent being called an empire -- the actual effect of the projection of American power is not unlike the effect of the projection of Victorian power or Roman power."
Today, the empire scholars acknowledge that America tends to operate not through brute force but through economic, cultural and political means. The idea seems to be that it is easier to turn other people into Americans than for Americans to make war on them. 
"We are an attractive empire, the one everyone wants to join," Mr. Boot said. 
And that, empire enthusiasts say, is the reason to root for a Pax Americana. In an anarchic world, with rogue states and terrorist cells, a globally dominant United States offers the best hope for peace and stability, they argue. 
"There's a positive side to empire," Mr. Kaplan said. It's in some ways the most benign form of order."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emperor Commodus receiving homage in ancient Rome, as imagined in a scene from the movie "Gladiator." (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NAVIES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ARMIES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); CLASSICS (77%); WRITERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (61%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%)

PERSON: EAKIN, EMILY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SPAIN (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



800 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Confidence Is Up. But the Market Isn't.

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Stocks fell modestly last week as investors feared that continuing improvement in economic data would result in a spike in interest rates.
 Reports by the University of Michigan and the Conference Board showed rebounds in consumer confidence. 
Government reports showed a gain in durable-goods orders in February -- the third consecutive monthly increase -- and an upward revision in fourth-quarter economic growth to an annual pace of 1.7 percent from 1.4 percent first reported last month. 
 Seeing a rise in interest rates as inevitable, investors sold financial services stocks like Citigroup. Technology companies like Microsoft, Intel and I.B.M. were also punished, because an increase in interest rates could translate to weaker corporate profits.
 For the week, shortened by the Good Friday holiday, the Dow Jones industrials fell 23.73 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,403.94. The Nasdaq composite was down 6.04 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,845.35. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 1.31 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,147.39. The results left the market little changed for the first quarter, with the Dow industrials up 3.81 percent, the Nasdaq down 5.39 percent and the S.& P. 500 off 0.06 percent. SHERRI DAY

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" PennzoilNYSE: PZLShell Oil, the American affiliate of Royal Dutch/Shell, has agreed to acquire Pennzoil-Quaker State for about $1.8 billion in cash. Pennzoil is the largest manufacturer of automobile lubricants.Friday's Close: $21.47Week's Change: +38.61%EST. '02 P/E: 20.95 VerizonNYSE: VZVerizon sold $1.5 billion of bonds with maturities as long as 30 years, responding to criticism from credit-rating companies that said it relied too much on short-term debt.Friday's Close: $45.65Week's Change: +0.09%EST. '02 P/E: 14.22 McAfee.comNNM: MCAFThe board of the online seller of antivirus software rejected as inadequate a $248 million buyout offer by Network Associates, the company that spun it off three years ago.Friday's Close: $16.47Week's Change: -14.44%EST. '02 P/E: 59.24 Network AssociatesNYSE: NETThe computer security company disclosed that federal regulators had begun a formal investigation into its accounting practices during 2000.Friday's Close: $24.20Week's Change: -8.12%EST. '02 P/E: 49.29 WorldComNNM: WCOMThe telecommunications giant is facing a lawsuit that accuses it of using concealed transactions and sham contracts to avoid reporting an uncollectable debt of $165 million.Friday's Close: $6.74Week's Change: -3.44%EST. '02 P/E: 9.08 Ford MotorNYSE: FA federal judge denied a request by Ford and Bridgestone/Firestone to dismiss more than 100 lawsuits related to rollover accidents in Venezuela and Colombia.Friday's Close: $16.49Week's Change: -1.08%EST. '02 P/E: 128.83 Instinet GroupNNM: INETThe electronic stock-trading network said it would probably post a first-quarter loss as it increased efforts to cut costs. Reuters is the majority owner of Instinet.Friday's Close: $6.51Week's Change: -6.73%EST. '02 P/E: 19.61 Emerson ElectricNYSE: EMRThe maker of power systems for telecommunications networks said in an S.E.C. filing that customer orders in the last three months fell as much as 20 percent from the period a year earlier.Friday's Close: $57.39Week's Change: -9.29%EST. '02 P/E: 20.50 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); EASTER SEASON (68%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); INTEL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 

 
