

401 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 33; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 3906 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD;
Phoenix: A Place In the Sun

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: PHOENIX

 BODY:
This is a city well named. It may not have arisen, like the fabulous bird of Egyptian mythology, from its own ashes, but, like the original phoenix, this one sprang to life in a desert.
It owes its existence to modern technology. Without large-scale irrigation and without air-conditioning, Phoenix as it now exists -- the sprawling, verdant, dynamic center of a metropolitan area of more than 2.8 million people -- would have been utterly unthinkable. With temperatures exceeding 100 degrees on more than 90 days a year, with an average high temperature in July of 106 degrees, God's own ungentled climate in the Sonoran Desert is better suited for cacti and Gila monsters than human beings. 
 Not that the year-round warmth here in the Salt River Valley, long since rechristened the Valley of the Sun by promoters who found the original name insufficiently poetic, lacks its uses. For starters, it is good for growing things. The Roosevelt Dam, finished in 1911, and a half-dozen other ambitious projects made commercial cultivation of cotton possible. Lettuce and melons, citrus fruits and dates are produced in quantity, too.
Fugitives from the punishing winters and the clamorous cities of the East and the Midwest have taken shelter here since the turn of the century, when sun-seekers put up 30-odd tents and a half-dozen adobe houses in Scottsdale, just east of Phoenix, which is now a wealthy, self-consciously Southwestern resort- and gallery-filled community of 150,000.
In the modern era, the hot, arid conditions have proved ideal for electronic manufacturing, and microchip plants keep springing up in cotton fields. The Valley of the Sun has turned into Silicon Valley Jr.
Much of the breakneck growth has been unplanned and uncontrolled, and a permissive business culture has left plenty of finagling room for high rollers like Charles H. Keating Jr., whose savings and loan empire went belly up a decade ago, at immense cost to the nation's taxpayers. Broad, straight avenues form a grid on the valley floor. Some are lined with orange and grapefruit trees, but more are disfigured by long, sterile parades of strip malls, shopping centers, fast-food joints, motels and gas stations.
Overreliance on the automobile and the freeway helps to create, on bad days, a pall of smog that obscures the beauty of the ruddy, jagged mountains that lie to the north, south, east and west of the Valley.
But when the air is clean and the sky is blue, or the sun is setting, or the moon is full, it is easy to understand the rhapsodies this landscape evoked in Frank Lloyd Wright 60-odd years ago when he was building his winter home, Taliesin West, on Maricopa Mesa, 20 miles from downtown Phoenix. It was "a grand garden," he wrote, "the like of which in sheer beauty of space and pattern does not exist, I think, in the world."
Once upon a time, culturally minded people in Phoenix had to make do with golf, and golf remains a major local preoccupation; last year 2 million tourists and 500,000 Arizona residents played 11 million rounds on 187 golf courses in the metropolitan area (or so says the visitors' bureau). But recent decades have brought an ambitious opera company, directed for 15 years until his retirement in June by an ardent Wagnerite, Glynn Ross; several new museums and the new Herberger Theater Center, plus the restoration of another playhouse, the Orpheum, a gem of Spanish Colonial Revival opulence.
More recently, Phoenix has acquired those other indispensable testimonials to American urban success: professional sports teams. The Phoenix Suns (basketball), the Arizona Cardinals (football), the climate-defying Phoenix Coyotes (hockey) and now the Arizona Diamondbacks (baseball) have done a lot for civic self-esteem, and the Diamondbacks' stadium, Bank One Ballpark, with a retractable dome, is another of the new fields, like those in Baltimore and Denver, that are helping to revive faded downtowns.
 
'No-Hassle Living'
This is a casual city. Men wear string ties and women sport silver jewelry studded with turquoises the size of quail's eggs. Besides golf, people busy themselves with tennis and biking and hiking on close-in trails and bouncing across the desert in four-wheel-drive vehicles.
"The quality of life brings people here," said Senator John McCain, who moved to Phoenix after his release from a prisoner-of-war camp in Vietnam. "A friend of mine got in his car once and drove up to Roosevelt Lake to water-ski, then headed up to Flagstaff to snow ski. All in one day."
Another resident talks about "no-brain, no-hassle living."
It is a startlingly young place. When Karl Baedeker (or, more likely, one of his minions) passed this way in 1904, he found "a well-built, modern city" of . . . wait for it . . . exactly 5,554 inhabitants. By that time, Los Angeles, the quintessential Johnny-come-lately among American cities, already had 120,000. The big boom here began at the end of World War II, with the dawn of the Age of Air-Conditioning. John Gunther came to town then and reported, "If you've been in Phoenix a year, you're an old-timer."
Now Phoenix is counted as the nation's sixth-largest city.
A new society, built from scratch, it lacks the stratification that marks Philadelphia and Boston, even Chicago and San Francisco. You find descendants of proud old Spanish families in Santa Fe and to a lesser degree in Tucson, but not here. For the most part, Spanish explorers gave northern Arizona a pass, leaving the Yavapai and Pima Indians in peace.
Still, the connections to the Old West are deeply felt. The Army's struggle against Cochise and Geronimo, the great Apache warriors, are as lively a folk memory in Phoenix as the exploits of Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson are in Richmond. The cowboy culture lives on in riding stables, rodeos and parades of horse-drawn vehicles. Spanish street names and mariachis remind you that the Mexican border is not far away.
 
Days of the Outlaws
Arizona was a lawless place in the last half of the 19th century. A Harvard geologist named Raphael Pumpelly visited the state in that era to work as a mining engineer and wrote later of "a climate of public opinion that blunted all ideas of right and wrong in the minds of newcomers who, suddenly freed from the legal and social restraints of the East, soon learned to justify the taking of life by the most trifling pretexts, or even to destroy it for the sake of bravado."
Outlaws like Billy the Kid operated with near-impunity. Starting when he was 15 years old and 5 feet 7 inches tall, Billy roamed through Arizona and New Mexico for 16 years until he was shot in 1891 by Sheriff Pat Garrett.
Two other Hollywood favorites, Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday, faced down the Clanton gang in a famous gunfight at the O.K. Corral in Tombstone in 1881.
Statehood arrived 31 years later -- Arizona was the last of the lower 48 to enter the union -- with Phoenix as the capital. One man, a conservative Democrat named Carl Hayden, formed a living political link with the pioneer days for much of this century, serving continuously in Congress, first in the House and then in the Senate, from 1912 until 1969.
A bit of the old buccaneering spirit has tainted modern Arizona politics. Gov. Evan Mecham made "enough of a fool of himself," in the words of the author Michael Barone, that he was impeached and removed from office in 1988. There have been several well-documented bribery scandals in the State Legislature.
But the state has also produced politicians who have aroused local and national affection rare in this era of widespread public cynicism, like Barry Goldwater, a herald of the new Republican conservatism, who crashed noisily in the 1964 Presidential campaign but found himself venerated late in life as a nonpartisan wise man, and Morris K. Udall, a bright, witty, sweet-natured Democratic Congressman who also failed in Presidential politics.
 
Treasures of the Indians
Screened by a pretty row of old olive trees, the Heard Museum is Arizona's premier cultural institution. It houses one of the nation's leading collections of the treasures of Indian civilizations, which have waxed and waned in these parts for at least 15,000 years, as the land turned from grassy savanna to desert. Brightly hued rugs, basketwork of astonishing delicacy, Navajo and Zuni and Hopi jewelry and hundreds of kachina dolls, donated by Goldwater and the hotel pioneer Fred Harvey, bear eloquent witness to the creativity of countless, mostly nameless Native American artists.
But it is the collection of Indian pottery, a particular passion of my wife, Betsey, that drew us to the Heard, and we were not disappointed. The work of the best pueblos -- Acoma and San Ildefonso and Santa Clara -- is represented in depth, not only the traditional polychrome but also the glossy, often unadorned blackware brought to national notice several decades ago by the work of Maria Martinez.
The Heard, which operates an unusually good craft shop, opens an $18.2 million expansion later this month, and the new Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art opened last weekend. Attendance at the rapidly expanding Phoenix Art Museum has grown from 177,808 in 1988 to 324,976 last year. "Perhaps Phoenix will finally begin to put to rest the inferiority complex that has plagued it," The Arizona Republic suggested recently.
Although the Art Museum has interesting collections of European painting and sculpture (Rodin and Redon, Courbet and Kees van Dongen) and American works (George Inness and William Merritt Chase and the unjustly neglected Jo Davidson), its main interest for the visitor is its collection of Western art. This includes not only the obligatory Remingtons and O'Keeffes but also the work of Eastern visitors like Robert Henri and lesser artists like Phimister Proctor, whose panther on the prowl riveted our attention, and Lew Davis, whose depictions of early copper camps recall Ben Shahn.
 
The Performing Arts
The performing arts have had tougher sledding, and a number of organizations came close to bankruptcy a decade ago. The Phoenix Symphony narrowly avoided a strike among its musicians last year, and with a base salary of $31,210 next season, they are still among the lowest-paid in the country. Although soloists of the caliber of Joshua Bell and Yo-Yo Ma play with it, the orchestra has never in its 50 years attracted a big-name music director. The incumbent, Hermann Michael, once worked as an assistant to Herbert von Karajan at the Vienna State Opera.
Under the flamboyant, publicity-minded Mr. Ross, the Arizona Opera mounted full-scale Ring cycles at Flagstaff, not far from the Grand Canyon, in the heart of what some German visitors who came to hear them called "der Vildenvest." Now the company has pulled in its horns a bit -- not so surprisingly, given the red ink the Rings generated. David A. Speers is the new administrator, from Calgary in Canada. In this, his first season, the five-opera repertory has been mostly traditional ("Andrea Chenier" and "La Boheme" are the two final productions), but in his second, he is including Carlisle Floyd's tuneful "Of Mice and Men," which Mr. Ross commissioned in 1970 for the Seattle Opera.
Both the symphony and the opera have headquarters at Symphony Hall, a fortresslike structure of corrugated concrete. It is the first concert hall I have ever seen without a single coming-events poster outside. The hall stands at the center of the new downtown, a somewhat windblown work in progress consisting of sports arenas, new hotels, a science center, a history museum, old Art Deco towers, vacant lots waiting for development, a gargantuan convention center and a shopping mall of dubious design and taste.
Across from Symphony Hall stands the fine new Herberger complex, with two stages that house the spunky Arizona Ballet, whose most famous alumnus is Jock Soto of the New York City Ballet; the Arizona Theater Company, whose 1998-99 season includes Paula Vogel's "How I Learned to Drive" and Alfred Uhry's "Last Night of Ballyhoo"; the Actors Theater of Phoenix and the Arizona Jewish Theater Company. Out at Arizona State University in Tempe, Wright's Grady Gammage Auditorium houses touring Broadway shows; "Miss Saigon" is there right now.
If you do make it to Tempe, be sure to see a newer building that puts Wright's vulgar U.F.O.-like auditorium to shame: the Nelson Fine Arts Center, designed in 1990 by Antoine Predock, an Albuquerque architect who reminds me a little of Louis I. Kahn. It is a stucco mountain of a building, a pale desert purple, which the architecture critic Paul Goldberger described as "tough, hard-edged and self-assured."
 
A Desert Panorama
Wright was in far better form, of course, when he built Taliesin West in the late 1930's. The great cantilevered drafting room is one of his finest spaces, assembled from simple materials -- local stones embedded in coarse mortar, redwood beams painted Cherokee red, his favorite color, and skylights covered at first with canvas and later with translucent plastic.
As always with Wright in his prime, the building revels in its relationship to its setting. It snuggles back into the foothills of the McDowell Range, invisible until you are almost upon it. And the very simplicity of the architect's means echoes his appraisal of the surrounding desert: "Nature, driven to economize in materials by hard conditions, generated bare, Spartan forms."
From Taliesin West you can see hundreds of Arizona's trademark cacti, the anthropomorphic saguaros, known to people everywhere from their bit parts in hundreds of westerns.
Thousands more await the visitor at the splendid Desert Botanical Garden, along with 4,000-odd other species of plants, mostly cacti, succulents and wildflowers. The stately saguaros sometimes live for hundreds of years, starting to grow their characteristic upturned "arms" only at 75.
Sixty years old this year, the Botanical Garden is rivaled only by the Jardin Exotique in Monte Carlo, and it is far more naturalistic; the cacti here are surrounded by desert, not a Mediterranean city. Along the miles of footpaths southeast of Phoenix, the species are clearly marked: bony-fingered ocatillos and paddle-shaped prickly pears, both green and purple; spiny agaves and aloes, with their spikes of yellow and orange blossoms; barrel cacti and pincushions and organ pipes and totem poles and candelabras, whose names describe them; cassia bushes, covered with yellow flowers; wild lupines, just coming into bloom, and penstemons and desert marigolds.
It is an altogether magical place, especially in the flowering season from now through May.
 
Here is information about visiting the Phoenix area:
 
Where to Stay
 
ARIZONA BILTMORE, 24th Street and Missouri Avenue, (602) 955-6600. Designed in 1929 by Frank Lloyd Wright and Albert C. McArthur, who had worked for him as a draftsman. They used a patented system of richly patterned concrete blocks. Sympathetically renovated since, with sumptuous suites added. Opalescent light fixtures, earthy colors and stylized Aztec motifs give this 600-room paragon a wholly original personality. Palms, flower beds, fountains and eight (!) pools dot the grounds, which also include tennis courts and golf courses. Double room rate: $415 to $475.
 
THE BOULDERS, 34631 North Tom Darlington Drive, Carefree, (602) 488-9009, is regularly voted one of the top two or three resorts in the nation, with good reason. Nestled in tranquil isolation among 12 million-year-old granite rocks, 20 miles from downtown Phoenix, it blends effortlessly into its site. Pueblo-style casitas with log ceilings and wood-burning fireplaces, furnished with rustic luxury, plus unexcelled sporting facilities make this a desert paradise. Smell the cumin-scented air. Watch the jackrabbits. Suite rate: $545; casitas: $720 to $1,120.
 
RITZ CARLTON PHOENIX, 2401 East Camelback Road, (602) 468-0700. An urban hotel rather than a resort, and somewhat formal by unbuttoned Arizona standards, with European oils and porcelain on display in the public rooms. The 281 bedrooms, each with a marble bathroom, live up to Ritz standards, featuring fine furniture, safes, ironing boards and deluxe minibars. Double room rate: $245 to $269.
 
SCOTTSDALE PRINCESS, 7575 East Princess Drive, Scottsdale, (602) 585-4848. Convention-ready with 429 rooms, 125 casitas and 75 villas set against the McDowell Mountains, this palatial oasis covers 450 gracefully landscaped acres where bougainvillea and shrub-size rosemary flourish. Now that the superchef Alessandro Stratta has left the Phoenician, the Princess's Marquesa is probably the best of the city's many fine hotel dining rooms, serving Catalan cuisine of extraordinary sophistication and authenticity. Double room rate: $399 to $479.
 
Where to Eat
 
CHRISTOPHER'S FERMIER, 2584 East Camelback Road, (602) 522-2344. Once Christopher Gross ran one of Phoenix's grander restaurants; now he has opted for informality. Open day and night, seven days a week, his new brasserie fits the city well. Soups, salads, pastas and comfort food aplenty (three-star hanger steak, cassoulet, roast chicken) are complemented by carefully handled cheeses (St. Marcellin, Tete de Moines and four from the Egg Farm Dairy in the Hudson Valley). Wines from all over and house-made microbrews.
 
LOS DOS MOLINOS, 8646 South Central Avenue, (602) 243-9113. On the far southern edge of the city sits an old hacienda where the cowboy star Tom Mix lived at his death in 1940. Now it is an unashamedly down-home Mexican restaurant of rare quality, festooned with skeins of peppers and neon beer signs, named after the mills (molinos) used for hand-grinding fiery chilies from Hatch, N.M. Start with a cheese crisp, a big, skinny tortilla covered with melted cheese; move on to the torrid, tender adovada ribs and finish with sopapillas, airy pastry pillows topped with honey and cinnamon.
 
VINCENT GUERITHAULT, 3930 East Camelback Road, (602) 224-0225. This is what happens when an accomplished chef from Lorraine by way of Provence meets the Southwest: You taste uncommon delights like smoked salmon quesadillas with horseradish cream and firm, tender sweetbreads coated with blue corn meal. You drink the world's great wines, from Petrus to Stag's Leap, chosen by Christie Dufault, a talented young sommelier. You do it in solid bourgeois comfort. All in all, this is Phoenix's most rewarding restaurant.
 
HAPA, 6204 North Scottsdale Road, (602) 998-8220. This is a dandy new spot specializing in Asian-American food, by which I don't mean chow mein. I mean cool, fresh shrimp rolls with a citrus dipping sauce good enough to drink; a vegetarian bento box highlighted by a taco-shaped dumpling stuffed with eggplant and avocado and tofu packets filled with pickled vegetables; a plate of udon noodles with grilled prawns, Chinese vegetables and a spicy coconut broth; a banana cream tart with coconut ice cream. Every dish was original, light, balanced.
 
NORMAN'S ARIZONA, 4410 North 40th Street, (602) 956-2288. Norman Fierros's Nueva Mexicana dishes show the influence of the Anglo chefs he worked with in Beverly Hills. His pared-down dining room, which opened last Cinco de Mayo, is decorated with works by local artists (currently, oversize photos of Maria Callas). We were dazzled by the campechana, a towering cocktail of prawns, fish and clams in a rich, cucumber-spiked tomato sauce; refined baby tamales made from green corn, and a stuffed pork loin in a pool of rich apricot salsa.
 
PIZZERIA BIANCO, 623 East Adams Street, (602) 258-8300. The Bronx-born Chris Bianco is the Valley's favorite chef. In an old brick building downtown, too small for the throngs that go there, he makes his own mozzarella, bakes his pies in a wood-fired brick oven and tops them with fennel sausages, wood-roasted cremini mushrooms and other good things. No reservations.
 
ROXSAND, 2594 East Camelback Road, (602) 381-0444. I know of no other chef anywhere who tries as many cuisines as RoxSand Scocos and succeeds as often. Her current menu includes dishes inspired by Iran, Hawaii, Japan, Italy, Austria, France, Africa and Mexico. Situated in a kind of upscale food court, RoxSand is a bright, peppy, modern place, with lots of rusted steel. Try the b'stilla, a Moroccan poultry pie sprinkled with almonds and powdered sugar (a real triumph), and her wicked pastries -- she studied with Gaston Lenotre.
 
Attractions
 
HEARD MUSEUM, 22 East Monte Vista Road, (602) 252-8848. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 9:30 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sundays, noon to 5 P.M. Admission: $6; $5, the elderly; $3, children 4 to 12; members and children under 4, free.
 
HERBERGER THEATER CENTER, 222 East Monroe Street, (602) 252-8497. This weekend, the Arizona Theater Company presents Pearl Cleage's "Blues for an Alabama Sky." Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 4 and 8 P.M.; last performance, Sunday at 2 P.M. Tickets: $27.50 to $34.50. Also, the Arizona Jewish Theater Company presents Arthur Miller's "Broken Glass," through Feb. 28. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 2 and 7 P.M. Tickets: $22.50 to $24.50.
 
PHOENIX ART MUSEUM, 1625 North Central Avenue, (602) 257-1880; recorded information, (602) 257-1222. "Splendors of Ancient Egypt," through March 28; "Copper as Canvas: Two Centuries of Masterpiece Paintings on Copper, 1575-1775," with works by Rembrandt, El Greco and others, through Feb. 28. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Thursdays and Fridays, 10 A.M. to 9 P.M. Admission: $6; $4, students and the elderly; $2, children 6 to 18; free on Thursdays. "Splendors of Ancient Egypt" is open from 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Mondays through Wednesdays; 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Thursdays and Fridays; 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Saturdays and Sundays; admission, which includes admission to the museum, is $12 for adults and $6 for children 6 to 18.
 
PHOENIX SYMPHONY HALL, 225 East Adams Street, (602) 262-7272. This weekend, the Arizona Opera presents Giordano's "Andrea Chenier." Tonight and tomorrow night, 7:30; Sunday, 2 P.M. Tickets: $15 to $65, available by calling the opera, (602) 266-7464, or Ticketmaster, (602) 784-4444.
 
TALIESIN WEST, Cactus Road and Frank Lloyd Wright Boulevard, Scottsdale, (602) 860-2700; recorded tour information, (602) 860-8810. Tours range from one to three hours and are offered daily from 9 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Admission: $14 to $35. Private and group tours can be arranged.
 
DESERT BOTANICAL GARDEN, 1201 North Galvin Parkway, Papago Park, (602) 941-1225. Hours: daily, 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Admission: $7.50; $6.50, the elderly; $1.50, children 5 to 12; free for members and children under 5. Completely wheelchair accessible.
 
Getting There
 
Northwest Airlines and U S Airways offer direct and connecting flights from La Guardia. For both, a 14-day round-trip advance fare with a Saturday stay-over is $282. Depending on availability, both also offer round-trip fares booked at the last minute, at about $550. Information: Northwest Airlines, (800) 225-2525; U S Airways, (800) 428-4322. America West Airlines offers direct flights from Kennedy. A 14-day advance fare with a Saturday stay-over is $392. Last-minute fares may cost as much as $900. Information: (800) 235-9292.
 R. W. APPLE Jr.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arizona's trademark: Saguaro cacti at Desert Botanical Garden in Phoenix. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)(pg. E33); Cantilevered spaces and local materials distinguish Frank Lloyd Wright's Taliesin West. Kachina doll at the Heard Museum, below. (Photographs by Jeff Topping for The New York Times)(pg. E41)
 
Map of Phoenix. (pg. E41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); MIDWEST USA (55%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: DESERT BOTANICAL GARDEN (59%); DESERT BOTANICAL GARDEN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DESERT BOTANICAL GARDEN (59%); DESERT BOTANICAL GARDEN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX (ARIZ); UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); MIDWEST USA (55%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; CULTURE; IRRIGATION; AIR CONDITIONING FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); MYTHOLOGY (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); DESERTS (77%); CITIES (73%); MOUNTAINS (73%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (72%); COTTON FARMING (72%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (68%); CITRUS GROVES (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); COMPUTER CHIPS (63%); RETAILERS (60%); GAS STATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



402 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 30; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: New Video Releases

 BODY:

Ronin
An international team of mercenaries is assembled to recover a metal case containing something -- no one seems to know what -- of utmost importance to everybody, from Irish terrorists to the Russians. Sam (Robert De Niro, left), the widely experienced American, and Vincent (Jean Reno), the Frenchman, are the most reliable for this kind of work. The others, especially the computer specialist and the weapons man, bear watching, as does the shifty Irishwoman (Natascha McElhone) who hires them. A master of spectacular action sequences, John Frankenheimer renders a tightly plotted film that is, Janet Maslin wrote in The New York Times, "genuinely worldly and unconventional." 
1998. MGM. $105.77. 118 minutes. Closed captioned. R. Release date: Feb. 23.
 
Permanent Midnight
In real life the drugged-out television writer Jerry Stahl thrived through the 80's, being, as he put it, "the 'dark' guy who took a little explaining but who got the job done." In David Veloz's film, Stahl (Ben Stiller) is on a slide to rock bottom. Along the way there is Sandra (Elizabeth Hurley), an ambitious, high-powered Englishwoman who somewhat implausibly needs a character like Jerry. But that's only one of the paradoxes in a story that is "as enveloping as it is darkly cautionary, thanks to the effectively varied layers of Mr. Veloz's direction and the bitter intensity Mr. Stiller brings to his central role" (Maslin).
1998. Artisan. $107.37. 85 minutes. Closed captioned. R. Release date: Feb. 23.
 
Pecker
In high satirical form, John Waters puts a loaded camera in the hands of a little fellow called Pecker (Edward Furlong) and lets him fire away at absolutely every banality he comes across on the streets of Baltimore. Ballyhooed by an agent (Lili Taylor), the junk is soon celebrated in New York gallery circles, as are Pecker and the real works of art in his life: his homegrown girlfriend (Christina Ricci); his raucous sister (Martha Plimpton), who works in a gay bar and calls everybody Mary, and his kindly mom (Mary Kay Place), who runs a thrift shop and champions the homeless. All would rather be in Baltimore in a film of "ebulliently trashy fun" (Maslin).
1998. New Line. $107.12. 87 minutes. Closed captioned. Release date: Feb. 23.
 
Without Limits
The miler Steve Prefontaine, who died in 1975 at age 24, might not make obvious movie material. A record holder, he lost races on occasion. A person with principles, he didn't trumpet them. He also probably wouldn't have lived happily ever after. But Robert Towne's film makes a compelling subject of the runner's relationship with his renowned coach, the Nike founder Bill Bowerman (Donald Sutherland), investing a curiously amorphous story with "deep, reflective power" (Maslin).
1998. Warner. $104.16. 117 minutes. Closed captioned. PG-13.
 
Straight to Video
Other new titles of interest, some of which may have had a theater release at one time, appeared on television or been on videocassette in earlier editions.
 
THE LAST EMPEROR. True, this is not a straight-to-video item, but it is the director's cut of Bernardo Bertolucci's film about Henry Pu Yi, the last Emperor of China, who was worshiped in childhood and wound up a gardener during the Cultural Revolution in the 1960's. About an hour has been added to the original film, which won nine Oscars in 1987 and had a rerun in theaters in December. That makes 3 hours 39 minutes all told, either panned-and-scanned for $14.98 or wide-screen for $24.98 The DVD is $29.98. Artisan. Release date: Tuesday.
 
MANDELA'S FIGHT FOR FREEDOM. A two-cassette biography made for the Discovery Channel traces the life of Nelson Mandela from prison and the apartheid years on through his presidency of South Africa. Alfre Woodard is the narrator. 1998. BMG. $29.98. 145 minutes.
 
THE GREATEST GENERATION. In a video companion to his book, Tom Brokaw tells the story of those who were raised in the Depression, fought in World War II and laid the economic foundation for the next half-century. 1998. New Video. $19.95. 50 minutes.
 
KNOCKS AT MY DOOR. In a Venezuelan film directed by Alejandro Saderman, two nuns who hid a fugitive from military patrols face a moral question: Do they risk facing a firing squad by admitting they voluntarily harbored the man, or do they save themselves and doom him by saying he forced them to take him in? 1998. Fox Lorber. $89.95. 105 minutes. Spanish with English subtitles. Release date: Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RONIN (MOVIE); WITHOUT LIMITS (MOVIE); PERMANENT MIDNIGHT (MOVIE); PECKER (MOVIE)

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316219 OTHER FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS316211 RUBBER AND PLASTICS FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS315239 WOMEN'S AND GIRLS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS315228 MEN'S AND BOYS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (50%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (50%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (50%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); REVIEWS VIDEO INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (89%); TERRORISM (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); WRITERS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); 

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (57%); BEN STILLER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



403 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Rally to Jordan, Easing Financial Fears

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 18

 BODY:
A strong and somewhat unexpected show of support from Jordan's neighbors is helping King Abdullah's new regime gain its financial footing.
Assurances of long-term backing had already been provided by the Clinton Administration, with a proposed $300 million three-year aid increase on top of an earlier $225 million pledge this year, and the International Monetary Fund, with a new contingency loan package for approximately $150 million yearly. 
 But in this vulnerable period of mourning and transition, Jordan has also received promises of financial support from Saudi Arabia and Israel and pledges of continued trade ties from Syria and Iraq.
Jordanians remain concerned about prospects for growth in the stagnant local economy, which has suffered for a decade from a drastic contraction of trade with Iraq and the loss of critical income from expatriate workers who returned from Kuwait and Saudi Arabia during the Persian Gulf war.
"If Jordan's role in the region is to continue and develop, all promises have to be translated into tangible financial facts," Al Rai, a leading newspaper, said in an editorial today.
Still, Jordan's allies and business partners breathed easier as financial markets reopened a week after King Hussein's death and showed no signs of succumbing to a feared speculative attack.
In contrast to last summer, when initial reports of King Hussein's illness sent an estimated $400 million fleeing offshore, there were no reports of significant capital flight.
"In general, irrational behavior caused by shock was short-lived," Fahed Fanek, a local financial commentator, wrote in The Jordan Times. Domestic financial fallout from the King's death was limited, he said, "because the fundamentals are right, the institutions are there, functioning properly, and the world is supporting us in every way."
Amman's banks and stock market and currency traders opened their doors on Saturday after an official week of mourning for King Hussein, who died on Feb. 7 and was succeeded by his eldest son, Abdullah.
As local markets closed today for the Muslim weekend, the Jordanian dinar was little changed from the levels of a month ago, when King Hussein was expected to survive. Promised support from Jordan's neighbors -- most notably from Persian Gulf leaders, who had cut off support to King Hussein -- put traders on notice that any run on the dinar would meet stiff resistance.
Kuwait, meanwhile, announced plans to reopen its embassy and restore oil sales and economic aid halted after Jordan's tilt to Iraq in the 1991 gulf conflict.
Perhaps most important, Saudi Arabia -- where the royal family is a historic rival of Jordan's Hashemite dynasty -- also said it would resume financial aid and oil shipments suspended since the gulf war.
"Saudi Arabia will firmly stand by you and support you in good and bad times and will use its resources to help Jordan," Crown Prince Abdullah ben Abdul Aziz of Saudi Arabia said in a message to King Abdullah on his return from King Hussein's funeral, Jordan's Government news agency reported.
Israel, much criticized in Amman for its perceived failure to increase trade and investment after its 1994 peace treaty with Jordan, also advertised its willingness to put its money on the line. The Israeli Government has discussed lending Jordan up to $200 million to defend the dinar, if necessary.
"The economic stability of our Jordanian neighbors is as important as stability in terms of security," said Dan Proper, head of Israel's leading manufacturers association, calling for increased private investment in Jordan.
Yet while the dinar may remain stable, there are few job opportunities for a work force that has been growing by 5 percent yearly for a decade, and few obvious short-term prospects for swift growth in trade or investment. For the past decade, as a stagnant economy failed to keep pace with 3.7 percent population growth, Jordan's per capita income has hovered around $1,500. Efforts to use low wages as an enticement for export manufacturers have generated few concrete results, but considerable resentment.
"I still see the economic outlook as gloomy," said Laith Shabeilat, a Jordanian opposition leader. "I don't want us to end up as an economic colony of the United States and Israel, enslaved as cheap labor."
Jordan's most acute problem remains its dependence on trade with Iraq. Economic sanctions and low oil prices are expected to cut exports to Iraq to $190 million this year, less than half the level of a decade ago -- a "devastating blow" to Jordan's hopes for recovery, said Marwan Khirfan of the Amman Chamber of Industry.
Geopolitics has not been kind to Jordan's economy. Jordan remains what it was since King Hussein was crowned in 1952: a small, resource-poor buffer state separating muscular and volatile neighbors. Except now it is even smaller, with fewer resources.
Jordan never recovered from its swift, thorough defeat in the 1967 war with Israel. It lost the fertile West Bank of the Jordan River, once the source of 60 percent of its produce and significant export income. More important, the West Bank was home to an industrious, educated business community. After 1967, Jordan lost their skills, and their capital.
Israeli enmity and border security insured that Jordanian companies lost access to what was once a third of their local market. Jordanian goods were displaced by Israeli products in West Bank shops, and dinars gave way to shekels.
Jordan's violent expulsion of Palestine Liberation Organization troops in 1970 and the Israeli security clampdown of the late 1980's further estranged Jordan from its former territory. Jordan now exports barely $20 million yearly to the West Bank, compared with estimated Israeli sales of nearly $1 billion.
The loss of the West Bank heightened Jordan's dependence on income from the Persian Gulf, which was slashed when Jordan sided with Iraq in the gulf war. Kuwait and Saudi Arabia angrily stopped cut-rate oil shipments and forced some 300,000 resident Jordanians to return home.
But Jordan's 1994 decision to make peace with Israel won it some Western support. The treaty was rewarded with the elimination of $683 million in United States Government debt, as well as reprieves from $92 million owed to Britain, $65 million in French state debt, and $53 million from Germany. Japan provided $215 million in cheap new loans.
"Jordan has benefited from more donor support than any other country of its size and income level, on a per capita basis," the World Bank noted in its 1998 annual report. Yet, as the bank added, "Most support has been invisible to the general public, in the form of debt reschedulings, conversions, and write-offs."
Now, with Jordan's total foreign debt approaching $8 billion, its leaders are seeking further forgiveness from Western creditors. Prime Minister Fayez Tarawneh told Parliament on Wednesday that debt servicing would cost Jordan $812 million this year, consuming 28 percent of the budget and 9 percent of the country's total income.
The Clinton Administration is pushing for a long-term rescheduling of Jordan's government-to-government debt, tied to the renewal of an International Monetary Fund loan program that concludes this month.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Jordanian regime of King Abdullah is gaining its financial footing without signs of the speculative attack feared after the death of his father, King Hussein. The stagnant economy, however, is still causing concern. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); GULF STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: ;INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JORDAN; SYRIA; IRAQ; SAUDI ARABIA; ISRAEL; JORDAN (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); GULF STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CURRENCY; ROYAL FAMILY INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DESERT STORM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); 

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR; ABDULLAH (KING OF JORDAN); HUSSEIN I, KING OF HASHEMITE JORDAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



404 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
ING Barings Is Trying to Dispel Recent Worries About Its Future

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

 BODY:
Though misery had plenty of company in emerging markets last year, few international firms had as much at stake or suffered as much as the Dutch investment bank ING Barings. A whirlwind of executive departures and steep losses put its future in question, with some analysts predicting that the descendant of Britain's once-mighty Barings would largely disappear.
The two men newly appointed to head ING Barings, the investment banking unit of ING Groep, David Robins, its chief executive, and Michel Tilmant, its chairman, want to dispel such notions. "Some clients said they worried that we would disengage," Mr. Tilmant said. "We have made it clear that we will continue to service them all over the world." 
 The two are touring the United States, Europe and Asia to explain a just-completed reorganization plan. The plan will put ING Barings, based in London, under greater scrutiny from its parent's corporate banking headquarters in Amsterdam and merge some operations that were once separate. Costs will be cut everywhere. But the bank intends to keep its foot in emerging markets and even rebuild a presence in Latin America, where it hurriedly cut its staff last year.
"We asked what makes us special," said Mr. Robins, who took over as chief executive amid the market turmoil in the fall. "The most interesting part was the global scope, with a clear focus on emerging markets. But we have to put together our capabilities better than in the past."
The reorganization comes after ING Groep announced that it would cut about 12 percent of the 10,000 ING Barings employees after a $170 million loss in the third quarter of last year. The firm's two top executives left, as did the chiefs of the debt and equity departments and the chief operating officer.
Mr. Robins set the tone for what is expected to be a long and difficult restructuring by forgoing his bonus for the year. He said that he and several other senior executives gave up their annual bonuses voluntarily.
Despite the spate of bad news, the bank's Dutch parent has affirmed its commitment to operate a European-style "universal" bank, offering the full panoply of services. That means maintaining a presence, albeit at lower costs, in the developing countries ING Barings has long viewed as its specialty. Despite recessions in many developing countries, core Dutch clients continue to demand services abroad, Mr. Tilmant said.
Like some other big European banks, ING Barings has found it hard to compete against the big American investment banks. Mr. Robins said it intended to focus more on middle-market companies in Europe as well as America, where it owns Furman Selz, a New York investment bank. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: ING GROUP (INTERNATIONALE NEDERLANDEN GROEP NV) ING GROEP NV (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: ING GROUP (INTERNATIONALE NEDERLANDEN GROEP NV)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES EMERGING MARKETS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; ROBINS, DAVID; TILMANT, MICHAEL DAVID ROBINS (86%); MICHEL TILMANT (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



405 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 40 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

DOLLAR RISES FOR FOURTH DAY. The United States currency topped the 120-yen level for the first time in 10 weeks as Japanese officials continued to talk their currency lower. In late trading yesterday, the dollar was at 119.75 yen.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since Aug., 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



406 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1782 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Walking a Brazilian High Wire;
Can BankBoston Take More Shocks in Latin America?

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
Less than a year ago, BankBoston, an institution with a venerable Brahmin lineage, was riding high.
The bank had made a sharp turnaround from lending debacles of the late 1980's. Among United States banks, only Citibank had a more extensive consumer banking business in fast-growing -- and very lucrative -- Latin American markets. So employees had every reason to celebrate at a party last March at the bank's headquarters here, as they gathered to toast an achievement that confers ultimate bragging rights on Wall Street: a soaring stock price. 
 Today, however, BankBoston, the oldest bank in the nation, is being buffeted by fears that Brazil's economic crisis may overwhelm it. The bank has also been embarrassed by financial scandal, trading losses and an untimely and expensive acquisition. Its stock has plunged from its 52-week high at a time when a mergers are sweeping the banking industry, and as a result, the bank is now seen by many analysts as takeover bait.
"They're in a tough spot because the place where they have put their bets is not the place you want to be right now," said Nancy Bush, an analyst with Ryan Beck & Company. "I think that their history is somewhat against them, and I don't see them as an industry survivor. I don't think they were prepared for the kind of damage that was done to their stock because of Brazil and Argentina."
For a bank that has prided itself on its prowess in Latin America, the setbacks of the last year have been particularly humbling. Unlike most large United States banks that lend only to Latin American borrowers, BankBoston has extensive branches in Brazil and Argentina and offers checking and savings accounts, credit cards, mutual funds and other staples of consumer banking. Even its president was born in Brazil.
And BankBoston, whose charter dating to its founding in 1784 is the oldest in the country (it once numbered Paul Revere among its customers), is no stranger to the perils of doing business in Latin America. The bank set up shop in Argentina in 1917 to help Massachusetts textile companies find new sources of wool. In 1947, it made its first foray into Brazil. Even so Brazil is plagued with unusually brutal economic problems right now, and BankBoston lacks the overall heft of other banks that have decided to run the risks of doing business there.
For their part, BankBoston executives acknowledge the hardships that blindsided them last year. But they remain confident that BankBoston, an unusual hybrid of old-fashioned banking, corporate lending and stock underwriting married to an extensive Latin American operation, is well positioned for the long haul.
"We're in a time of change the likes of which I've never seen," said Chad Gifford, chief executive of the BankBoston Corporation. But, he hastened to add, "I feel no pressure to do a deal."
Others, however, question how much time the bank has to persuade analysts and investors that its stock has been unfairly beaten up. Brazil, where the bank has $6 billion in financial exposure, most of it in the form of local lending, is still struggling with its crisis. And there are worries that Brazil's troubles could spill over into Argentina, where BankBoston has $9 billion in exposure. While other United States banks face losses in Latin America, BankBoston is particularly vulnerable because its smaller size would give it less padding to absorb a full-blown recession in the region.
"They've got this cloud hanging over them because of Latin America and they need to have that cloud dissipate," said Gerard Cassidy, an analyst with Tucker Anthony Inc. "It will dissipate, but the question is when?"
As home to Latin America's biggest economy, Brazil was a prized destination for banks looking to find new ways to fill their coffers. BankBoston expanded aggressively there the last year and is now the fourth-largest foreign bank in the country. But Brazil looked less attractive after Russia devalued its currency and declared a debt moratorium last August. Brazil was quickly sized up as the next victim of the financial contagion spreading around the globe. The country spent several months defending its currency and arranging for emergency funds before it too was forced to devalue its currency last month. It is now scrambling to avoid a complete economic collapse, and BankBoston has a front-row seat from which to view the struggle.
BankBoston's senior executives are confident, however, that Brazil's faltering economy will not drag BankBoston down with it. Indeed, they argue, Brazilians have traditionally sought to stash their savings in havens like BankBoston when times are tough, meaning that the bank could actually profit from the turmoil.
Henrique Meirelles, BankBoston's Brazilian-born president, said he was absolutely certain the bank could weather Brazil's storms. "We work at the top end of the market," he said, noting that the bank's customers are among Brazil's wealthiest. In the credit card business, for example, BankBoston has not flooded the Brazilian market with cards, as has Citigroup, but has issued a far smaller number to more well-heeled customers.
Many analysts share the view that BankBoston is well provisioned and well positioned to successfully negotiate Brazil's challenges.
"BankBoston has the skill to remain successful despite the ongoing crisis situation in Latin America," a Lehman Brothers analyst, Diane Glossman, noted in a recent research report. "We continue to view these operations as a source of strength despite the market's periodic 'wall of worry.' "
But clearly the market is very worried. In just seven months, BankBoston's stock has tumbled from a high of $59.0625, shearing about $6 billion from the company's market value. Thursday, the stock closed at $38.0625, up 43.75 cents, and ahead of a 52-week low of $25.75 reached in October.
The Brazilian crisis has not been the only source of problems for BankBoston. The company was hit with some big losses last year from a well-publicized fraud and from trading miscues. Both events raised questions about the quality of BankBoston's financial controls.
The fraud proved particularly embarrassing because it involved its prized Latin American franchise. Ricardo S. Carrasco, head of BankBoston's private banking operation in New York, has been charged with embezzling $66 million in fraudulent loans to an Argentine businessman, Oldemar C. Barreiro. The loans were made even though BankBoston's Argentine operation had earlier raised alarms about Mr. Barreiro's background. Mr. Carrasco disappeared after company officials asked him to a meeting to explain the loans; he remains at large.
Then, in last year's third quarter, BankBoston's trading operation booked a $52 million loss because of errant bets made by the bank's emerging-markets desk in Boston.
Those losses, combined with the scandal in the private bank, raised concerns among analysts about how tight a lid BankBoston was keeping on its diverse businesses. Mr. Gifford and other senior executives said they had reorganized the trading operation and the private bank and said they were better equipped to monitor lurking problems in those areas.
Still, the real challenge facing BankBoston, should its Latin American franchise stall, will be the ability of other parts of the company to pick up the slack.
Last year, BankBoston earned $792 million on revenue of $4.4 billion, compared with $879 million on revenue of $4 billion in 1997. Less than 20 percent of its profits came from its Latin American operation; the bulk of the bank's profits, about 67 percent, came from its corporate banking and regional banking businesses.
While the corporate banking business almost buried BankBoston under a pile of bad real estate and overseas loans a decade ago, it has since emerged as one of the main engines of growth for the company. But trading losses and a pricey acquisition last year caused the corporate business to sputter.
Like other banks, including the Bankers Trust Corporation and the BankAmerica Corporation, BankBoston bought an investment bank to bolster its presence on Wall Street. But the $800 million BankBoston paid to acquire the boutique investment banking firm Robertson Stephens last September is now viewed, with benefit of hindsight, as too hefty. While Robertson Stephens was best known for its shepherding technology companies to market, soon after after its acquisition, initial public offerings and stock underwritings dried up because of the financial turmoil abroad. BankBoston said Robertson Stephens's problems were only temporary and that it, and the larger corporate business, should produce solid gains this year.
The last leg of BankBoston's business, its consumer banking business in New England, has had deeper flaws. Three years ago, BankBoston bought Bay Banks Inc., New England's leading consumer bank, for $2 billion in an effort to strengthen this side of the business. But the companies had problems meshing their operations, causing headaches for customers of both banks and requiring an infusion of extra funds to bring the lagging operations up to speed. BankBoston recently appointed a well-regarded executive, Bradford H. Warner, to oversee the retail business and hired the former head of technology at Sears, Roebuck & Company to help reinvigorate the consumer operation.
Meanwhile, the clock is ticking.
With BankBoston's stock price low and investor expectations high, the bank may not have as much time as it would like to ride out problems here and in Latin America that may only be temporary. That is why analysts and investment bankers see the company as vulnerable to a takeover bid. Among the companies seen as possible bidders for BankBoston are Fleet Financial Group Inc., the First Union Corporation, the Mellon Bank Corporation and the Chase Manhattan Corporation.
Should Citigroup's move to meld banking and insurance operations ultimately pass muster with regulators, some investment bankers speculate that BankBoston may end up being acquired by the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company. The dream deal for those advocating greater financial deregulation, and for loyal Bostonians hoping to retain a hometown financial services giant, would be a merger of BankBoston, John Hancock and the FMR Corporation, the mutual fund heavyweight that is the parent of Fidelity Investments.
As the speculation grows, BankBoston's Mr. Gifford says he intends to remain focused on the basics of running his bank.
"This is the time for execution for the bank," he said. "We have to show increasingly and on a consistent basis that these businesses can perform."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: BankBoston has been doing business from this Buenos Aries building since 1924, when the photograph was made. (Courtesy BankBoston); Henrique Meirelles, above left, the bank's president, and Charles K. Gifford, chief executive. (Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times)
 
Chart/Graph: "Risk in South America"
Many big banks make South American loans that originate in the United States. Two, BankBoston and Citigroup, also have extensive banking businesses based in Brazil and Argentina. Some worry that BankBoston is not big enough to weather Brazil's crisis, which could spread to Argentina.
 
Total assets as of end of 1998, billions
Citigroup*: $667
BankAmerica+: $618
Chase+: $366
J.P. Morgan: $261
Bankers Trust+: $133
BankBoston: $74
 
Graph shows U.S. originated and local exposure for Argentina an Brazil. Includes liabilities, derivatives, assets.
 
*As of the third quarter 1998
+Did not disclose cross-border vs. local exposure
 
(Sources: the companies)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (94%); BAC (LSE) (94%); 8648 (TSE) (94%); BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANKBOSTON BANK OF AMERICA CORP (94%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKBOSTON

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); TRENDS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MERGERS (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (65%); TEXTILES (60%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (55%); SCANDALS (54%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L; MEIRELLES, HENRIQUE; GIFFORD, CHARLES K MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



407 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Pan Am 103 Returns

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
The Western democracies, sometimes separately, sometimes together, are working out a historic policy: Reward selected terrorist nations for their crimes.
The policy is not a conspiracy but grows out of national interests and attitudes, open or denied, as now perceived in Western capitals. 
 Each government either thinks reward of perpetrators is now economic wisdom for itself, or fears terrorist retaliation, or is enticed by the political benefits of making the public believe the file is closed.
The people and officials of these nations drift warmly into the last sleep -- moral equivalency. Look, lots of other unpleasant countries are around, and anyway we are not so great. What's the difference between Americans bombing a factory in the Sudan and terrorists blowing up a building in New York?
Here are just four cases in the new reward policy.
The oldest is Pan Am 103, which for 10 years has stirred in its grave in Scotland. For years, Western and Mideast intelligence agencies said specialists from terrorist camps in Syria had blueprinted destruction of the plane and its victims -- 270.
They said the money had come from Iran and that Libyans were brought in when German police were closing in on Syria's operators.
Then a new theory popped up -- a couple of Libyans did it all by themselves. Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi refused to give them up.
Now again we dig up the idea about Scottish judges trying them in the Netherlands. Colonel Qaddafi is likely to accept it, after bargaining the U.S. said it would never get into.
This time it is a rose of the desert for him. He gets embargoes against the sale of oil lifted as soon as the two are turned in. The wording makes it virtually impossible to restore the embargo, even if the defendants sacrifice the lives of every relative in Libya by fingering the colonel.
They are not likely to be asked. The U.S.-U.K. proposals forbid "undermining" the Libyan Government at the trial! An affirmative vote of 9 out of the 15 U.N. Security Council members would be needed to reinstate the embargo -- and the five permanent members forswear use of the veto against reinstatement!
Colonel Qaddafi gets billions in oil money. Favorite Western countries get Libyan contracts. Relatives of the Pan Am dead get to cry forever.
Iraq -- that one. We know Saddam Hussein is nearing possession of weapons of mass slaughter. After the gulf war, the U.N. inspection team tried to track down his weaponry, and got close. Some of our best friends double-crossed the inspection team to death last year. That's real power. Now they fight to lift the oil embargo against Iraq.
If wan Washington keeps opposing lifting the embargo, and the new weaponry Iraq would get, others will scornfully lift it for themselves. What's the difference between U.S. unilateral action against Saddam, and European unilateral action against America? Matter of viewpoint.
China -- all right, the Communists broke their promises to President Clinton about improving human rights. But who said he was dumb enough to believe them? Just because he said so?
The way to stop China from stealing U.S. military know-how is to sell some to Beijing. If China is cracking down harder on religious and political rights -- who made us the world's superchaplain?
Mexico. We know it is the funnel for about 70 percent of the heroin and cocaine entering the U.S. America has sanctions passed by Congress to stop that kind of thing.
But Mexicans are touchy. If we use the waiting sanctions, or speak sharply, they may get mean and hurt. Maybe parents of American kids who stick the stuff in their noses and veins might march outside the Mexican Embassy with signs saying "Touchy, Mean and Hurt" -- and see who cares.
But if Mr. Clinton just says Mexico is doing the best it can, sanctions can be skipped. So lie, man, lie.
We know how to end rewarding perpetrator nations. In an investigation of its operation in Indonesia, the World Bank, headed by James Wolfensohn, said its own officials ignored corruption, growing repression and a collapsing financial system during the final years of President Suharto's 33-year rule. 
Remember? It is called telling the bloody truth. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); SYRIA (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND); LIBYA; IRAQ; CHINA; MEXICO; LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); SYRIA (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; HEROIN; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC TERRORISM (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); VETO (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); HEROIN (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); AIRLINES (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (66%); DESERT STORM (64%); JUDGES (64%); COCAINE (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



408 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Prices Paid To Producers Up Sharply

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18

 BODY:
Prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers registered an unexpectedly large increase in January, reflecting a surge in oil prices, which have since declined, and higher food costs.
The Labor Department said today that producer prices rose half a percent last month, the largest increase in more than two years. However, the core rate of producer prices, which excludes food and energy costs, dropped one-tenth of 1 percent, the first decrease in that measure in seven months. 
 Analysts had expected today's report to show a rise of only two-tenths of 1 percent in January's prices over all. During December, prices over all increased four-tenths of 1 percent and the core rate rose 1 percent, in both cases reflecting higher cigarette costs.
The decrease in January's core rate "better reflects conditions within the underlying economy," said Kevin Flanagan, an economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York. "Inflation will continue to remain under wraps."
Producer energy prices rose 1.8 percent in January, the largest increase since December 1996. Food prices increased 1.6 percent, the largest increase since April 1993, reflecting the biggest rise in pork prices in 25 years and a freeze-related rise in citrus costs.
Tobacco prices fell two-tenths of 1 percent. In December, they had soared 26.3 percent, reflecting the tobacco settlement.
Oil prices briefly surged in January. Crude oil futures prices rose above $13 a barrel in mid-January for the first time since November, but they retreated later in the month to about $11.50 a barrel, and they are trading around that price now.
Oil prices are expected to remain low because of sluggish global demand and excess capacity.
In the food category, pork prices rose 18 percent in January, reflecting a rebound from December, when futures reached their lowest level since June 1971.
Pig farmers have begun to trim their herds as their profits have declined. A Government report in late December said that farmers planned to cut their breeding herd in coming months, putting the brakes on a two-year expansion.
Household food prices are still expected to be restrained this year. The Agriculture Department expects them to rise between 2 percent and 2.5 percent in 1999, compared with a 2.2 percent gain last year.
Another report issued by the Labor Department today showed that the number of first-time claims filed for state unemployment benefits rose 4,000 last week, to a seasonally adjusted 288,000. The four-week moving average for jobless claims fell to 292,000, the lowest since February 1989, from 298,750 in the prior week.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Producer Prices" shows an index of finished goods prices, from Aug. 1997 through Jan. 1999. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) MORGAN STANLEY (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE PRICE INCREASES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); PRODUCER PRICES (92%); FOOD PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); PORK (89%); FUTURES (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (84%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TOBACCO MFG (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



409 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Jeffery Cohelan, 84, Advocate Of Liberal Causes in Congress

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18

 BODY:
Former Representative Jeffery Cohelan, a liberal Democrat from California who served in the House for 12 years before becoming executive director of the Group Health Association in 1970, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 84.
The cause was Parkinson's disease and cancer, his son Timothy, of San Diego, said. 
 In his years in Congress, which spanned the politically turbulent period from 1958 to 1970, Mr. Cohelan (pronounced coh-AY-len) was an advocate for civil rights, the environmental movement and labor causes. His district included half the industrial city of Oakland and the University of California at Berkeley, where student protests erupted over the issue of free speech and the right to assembly in 1964. Later in the 1960's the campus became a center of the antiwar movement.
In Congress, Mr. Cohelan served on the Government Operations Committee, the District of Columbia Committee and the Armed Services Committee. He was a sponsor of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and floor leader for the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
Mr. Cohelan also co-sponsored legislation in 1968 that established Redwood National Park, on the northwestern coast of California, and Point Reyes National Seashore, 20 miles northwest of San Francisco.
An early supporter of the Vietnam War, Mr. Cohelan saw his career fell victim to the antiwar movement in 1970. He lost his seat in the 1970 Democratic primary to a Berkeley city councilman, Ronald V. Dellums, who opposed the war and the military draft. Mr. Dellums went on to serve 14 terms in the House.
Mr. Cohelan was a milk truck driver in the San Francisco area in 1942 when he was elected secretary-treasurer of Local 302 of the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Union. As an undergraduate at Berkeley, he continued to be active in the union, helping to start an in-house union newspaper and initiating a Federal credit union. He went on to serve as a labor consultant for the University of California.
After graduating from the university in 1950 as an economics major, Mr. Cohelan studied at Leeds and Oxford Universities in 1953 as a Fulbright Scholar. In 1955 he was elected to the Berkeley City Council.
After his defeat in the Democratic primary in 1970, Mr. Cohelan became a senior director of the Group Health Association of America, a Vanguard health care organization. He retired from the health association in 1979.
Besides his son Timothy, Mr. Cohelan is survived by his wife of 60 years, Dr. Evelyn Cohelan of Washington; another son, Terrence, of Santa Cruz, Calif.; two daughters, Pamela Benson of Washington and Catherine Ulmer of Walnut Creek, Calif.; a sister, six grandchildren and a great-grandson.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffery Cohelan in 1970 (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: WALNUT CREEK CDROM (50%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); LIBERALISM (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); ELECTION LAW (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (72%); CITIES (70%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); BEACHES (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (55%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (55%); HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: COHELAN, JEFFERY RONALD V DELLUMS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



410 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Joseph R. Gregory

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
UKRAINE: EX-PREMIER LOSES IMMUNITY -- Parliament voted to strip former Prime Minister Pavlo Lazarenko, left, of immunity from prosecution on corruption charges. Mr. Lazarenko, a member of Parliament, is accused of taking $2 million while a regional governor and as the top official in President Leonid Kuchma's administration. The Swiss have charged him with money laundering. In 1997, President Kuchma ousted Mr. Lazarenko, who denies any wrongdoing. Michael Wines (NYT)
 
RUSSIA: EUROPEAN LEADERS IN MOSCOW -- European Commission President Jacques Santer and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany told President Boris N. Yeltsin that the European Union was ready to deepen ties if Russia opens its markets and continues to stabilize its economy. (Reuters) 

CYPRUS: MISSILE PACT SIGNED -- Cyprus signed an accord to put Russian air-defense missiles on the Greek island of Crete, a compromise to reduce tensions with Turkey, the Interfax news agency said. Cyprus had canceled a missile shipment after Turkey threatened attacks to prevent their deployment there. (AP)
 
BRITAIN: VATICAN LETTER ON PINOCHET -- Britain said it received a letter from the Vatican about Gen. Augusto Pinochet but would not confirm whether it had come from the Pope or give other details. The former Chilean dictator is waiting for a court decision on whether he can be extradited to Spain to face trial on human rights charges. (Reuters)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: ANOTHER KIDNAPPING IN MEXICO -- Alvaro Campos, father of the soccer star Jorge Campos, was kidnapped by men in civilian clothes armed with AK-47 rifles as he left a political meeting near Acapulco. It was unclear whether the kidnappers, who made no attempt to disguise themselves, were common criminals or had ties to guerrillas. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
CANADA: AID FOR CUBA'S JEWS -- The Canadian Jewish Congress has donated almost 20,000 pounds of kosher food to help the 500 Jewish families in Cuba celebrate Passover. Cuba's Jews have been able to observe Passover openly since 1992, but the U.S. embargo has prevented American aid. (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
INDIA, PAKISTAN: DISRUPTION THREATENED -- Religious parties in Pakistan said they would try to disrupt a visit by Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India tomorrow after he makes the inaugural run of a new bus service between New Delhi and Lahore. The service shows "the overwhelming desire" of both nations to have peace, said India's External Affairs Minister, Jaswant Singh. Barry Bearak (NYT)
 
PHILIPPINES: GENERAL SEIZED -- Communist guerrillas said they kidnapped Brig. Gen. Victor Obillo, the highest-ranking military official ever captured by the Maoist New People's Army. Military officials said the rebels want to swap him for Amado Payot, a rebel on trial for killing 19 civilians. (Agence France-Presse)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: ARRESTS FOR POLITICAL VIOLENCE -- Authorities have arrested 45 suspects in an attack on a moderate political figure whose elder brother is Iran's hard-line leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the official Iranian news agency said. It said Hadi Khamenei, an adviser to President Mohammad Khatami, suffered a skull fracture on Feb. 11 when thugs attacked him before he was to make an address in a mosque in Qom. Douglas Jehl (NYT)
 
LIBYA: U.N. OFFER ON LOCKERBIE -- To help persuade Libya to hand over two suspects in the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am jet, United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan sent a letter offering what a spokesman called "clarifications about arrangements" for their proposed trial before a Scottish court in the Netherlands. Diplomats say Mr. Annan has offered assurances that the proceedings will not be used to undermine the Libyan Government. Douglas Jehl (NYT)
 
LEBANON: TENSION IN SECURITY ZONE -- Lebanese officials accused Israel of expanding its self-styled "security zone" in southern Lebanon after Israeli troops seized Arnoun, a village three miles from the Israeli border. The Israel Army said the village was taken over "to protect its residents" from attacks by Lebanese guerrillas, and said the action had "no political implications." (Reuters)
 
IRAQ: A PARDON FOR CONVICTS -- Iraq pardoned or reduced the jail sentences of convicted criminals who volunteered for military service during American and British air strikes in December, the official Iraqi News Agency said. The decree said it did not cover those convicted of spying, drug use, incest, rape and homosexuality. It said those convicted of murder had to reconcile with the victims' families. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: AMNESTY IN BOMBING -- Two former police officers who bombed the home of President Nelson Mandela's former wife, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela in 1985, were granted amnesty by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. But the two former officers -- Mphithizel Ngo and Mohonaetsi Motsamai -- were denied amnesty for murder, robbery and other criminal acts. Suzanne Daley (NYT)
 
ZIMBABWE: SETBACK FOR MUGABE -- An alliance of labor and civic groups and opposition parties spurned President Robert Mugabe's plans to establish a commission of inquiry into Zimbabwe's basic law. Instead they called for a national conference to work on replacing the Constitution. (Agence France Presse)
 
SIERRA LEONE: ARREST OF TROOPS DENIED -- The West African intervention force in Sierra Leone disputed a U.N. claim that about 100 of its soldiers had been arrested for carrying out summary executions of rebels last month. A spokesman said no arrests had taken place. (Agence France-Presse)
 Compiled by Joseph R. Gregory
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CYPRUS (93%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); UKRAINE (90%); CUBA (90%); GREECE (79%); SPAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (50%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CYPRUS (93%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); UKRAINE (90%); CUBA (90%); GREECE (79%); SPAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHILE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CORRUPTION (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); IMMUNITY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL DEFENSES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (87%); RELIGION (87%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); ARMIES (75%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); SOCCER (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); PASSOVER (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



411 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Chirac, in U.S., Offers Alternative Approach to Economic Crises

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18

 BODY:
President Jacques Chirac of France, visiting Washington, openly split with the American approach to stabilizing the world economy a day before meeting President Clinton.
In a speech today to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, Mr. Chirac urged that the United States, Japan and Europe manage the exchange rates of their currencies, keeping them within specific zones agreed on by the major nations, to restore stability to the world economy. That is an idea that Japan and Germany have echoed, but on Wednesday, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin dismissed the suggestion as unworkable and ill thought out. 
 Mr. Chirac's suggestion that the world's three main currencies -- the dollar, yen and euro -- remain within "target zones" is part of a broader agenda he brings here for a more active approach to taking some of the risk out of the world economy. He has also called for far greater regulation of hedge funds -- huge pools of money put together by private investors -- and for an early warning system to detect crises.
"We must increase our capacity for crisis prevention," Mr. Chirac said today. "We must adopt a veritable traffic code or highway code for capital flows, a code which applies to all, including hedge funds and offshore establishments."
Mr. Rubin, a 26-year veteran of Wall Street, has been cautious about each of the suggestions, and openly dismissive of a few. Early warning systems, he pointed out recently, sound like a good idea, but rarely work in practice. The I.M.F., he has noted, has a poor record of predicting when and where a crisis will erupt, and private credit-rating organizations failed to flag the troubles that set off the crisis in Asia, Latin America and Russia that has rocked much of the world over the last 20 months.
The issues are bound to come up on Friday, when Mr. Chirac meets with President Clinton, a session that the Treasury said today Mr. Rubin would also attend.
The arguments over how to construct what Mr. Chirac today called a "new financial architecture" have been building for months. The differences are likely to become evident on Saturday, at a meeting in Bonn of the finance ministers and central bankers of the seven largest industrial nations. The annual session is intended to set the agenda for the Group of Seven leaders meeting later this year.
"We don't know how hard Chirac will press all of this face to face with the President," one of Mr. Clinton's aides said today. "And Clinton himself is conflicted on this, because he likes the idea of political leaders pressing to do more than just technical fixes."
Mr. Rubin's strong criticism of the proposal to regulate exchange rates came at a news conference Wednesday. He noted that if the United States economy went into a downturn, and the value of its currency also fell, Europe and Japan might prescribe a rise in American interest rates in an attempt to bring the value of the dollar back up. But that move could choke off growth, worsening the economic downturn.
"We think that the way you achieve stability is to use fundamental economic policy," Mr. Rubin said.
At the heart of the issue are questions of sovereignty -- the United States is loath to turn over economic decision-making power to an international organization of any kind. The Clinton Administration is also doubtful about the wisdom of creating a new bureaucracy to police the world economy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; JAPAN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (67%); TRENDS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JACQUES CHIRAC (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



412 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Share Prices Rebound, With Dow Climbing 103.16

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stock prices rebounded yesterday as attention shifted from technology to insurance and other financial shares after a Dutch company said it would pay a large premium to buy Transamerica.
Technology shares, which have dominated market gyrations for weeks, took something of a breather in the aftermath of Dell Computer's report late Tuesday of disappointing sales growth and finished mixed. Dell climbed 1 7/16 , to 83, as trading subsided to 33.8 million shares, 30 percent of Wednesday's staggering level, while Microsoft fell 4 1/4, to 145 3/4. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 103.16 points, or 1.12 percent, to 9,298.63. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 13.25 points, or 1.08 percent, to 1,237.28, while the technology-laden Nasdaq market rose 11.64 points, or five-tenths of a percent, to 2,260.55.
Analysts called the performance, which pushed the Dow into the middle of the 9,100 to 9,500 range in which it has traded for more than a month, somewhat encouraging in that it came despite the competition from rising interest rates in the credit markets.
"The domestic economy is doing just fine," said Peter H. Havens, executive vice president and chief investment officer at the Bryn Mawr Trust Company, citing fresh Government reports on jobs, inflation and Philadelphia-area business activity .
And some analysts argue that the market is poised for a further rebound. Decliners on the New York Stock Exchange surpassed advancing issues over the preceding 10 sessions by about 4,800, more than twice the 2,000 margin that implies a short-term market rise, said Laszlo Birinyi of Birinyi Associates.
This, he concluded, means that "we're still oversold."
The biggest advances in the Dow were by I.B.M., up 3 3/4, to 174 1/4; General Motors, up 3, to 85 9/16 ; Alcoa, up 2 7/8, to 81 15/16 , and McDonald's, up 2 7/16 , to 82 15/16 .
Of the eight losers, only Caterpillar, down 11/16 , to 44 13/16 , lost more than a fraction.
Insurance stocks were a standout, spurred by the Dutch company Aegon's $78 bid for Transamerica, which jumped 15 1/4, to 72 7/8. The combined company would be the third-biggest life insurer in the United States.
Jefferson Pilot gained 4 1/8, to 70 1/4; Lincoln National rose 4, to 88 3/8; American General jumped 3 7/8, to 70 1/16 ; Equitable climbed 2 15/16 , to 66 15/16 ; Allstate rose 2 5/16 , to 38 9/16 ; Conseco was up 2, to 29, and Berkshire Hathaway rose 495, to 71,700.
Lehman Brothers, up 3 1/8, to 50 1/16 , along with Merrill Lynch and Charles Schwab, each up more than 2, led a strong brokerage group while among banks, J. P. Morgan, BankAmerica, Republic, First Union and Bank One all gained more than a point.
Drug stocks were aided by a better-than-expected profit report by Glaxo Wellcome, which rose 1 9/16 , to 66 1/16 . Lilly's gain was biggest, up 4 7/8, to 93 3/8.
Nearly three stocks gained for every two that fell on the New York Stock Exchange -- 1,766 to 1,255. But 145 made new 52-week lows while only 28 made new highs.
"The breadth is not that great," said Walter Murphy, a senior analyst at Merrill Lynch. "It still smacks of being a narrow market."
Still, the Wilshire 5000 index that includes nearly every stock, gained nearly 1 percent, almost matching the advances in the Dow and the S.& P. 500.
Big Board volume edged up to a still-moderate 742.5 million shares, from 735.1 million on Wednesday.
McDonald's gain was aided by a recommendation by a Merrill Lynch analyst who raised his target price to 100 within 12 months. Intel, the No. 1 maker of computer chips, was reiterated a buy by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and rose 3 1/2, to 128 1/8. But Chase Manhattan was downgraded by Prudential Securities and slumped a point, to 76.
Overseas, main stock indexes fell 1.26 percent in Brazil and by negligible percentages in Japan and Britain. Markets in Germany and France rose 1.1 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Fall
(By Bloomberg News)
 Bond prices fell for the first time in three sessions yesterday after reports on inflation, manufacturing and employment pointed to economic resilience, giving investors little incentive to buy bonds.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell a point, to 99 4/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.38 percent from 5.31 percent.
Bonds sank after the Government said prices paid to factories, farms and other producers rose five-tenths of percent in January, surpassing analysts' estimates.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Feb. 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (53%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%); BRK.B (NYSE) (50%); BRK.A (NYSE) (50%); CNO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (50%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BRYN MAWR TRUST CO (67%); ALLSTATE CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); ALCOA INC (52%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (50%); CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INSURANCE (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTEREST RATES (51%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



413 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

General Dynamics Bids For Rival Submarine Maker
General Dynamics, the nation's largest maker of nuclear-powered submarines, stunned the defense industry by making an unsolicited $1.4 billion bid for Newport News Shipbuilding, the No. 2 maker. 
 The deal was surprising for two reasons: First, the Government, in a reversal of policy, has been halting defense industry mergers and this deal would create only one supplier of nuclear-powered submarines. Second, it throws in question the Newport News $470 million friendly takeover of Avondale Industries, the nation's No. 4 defense shipbuilder. C2.
 
Gillette Chairman to Retire
Alfred M. Zeien, the chairman and chief executive of the Gillette Company, said he was retiring on April 15, following a year of mixed financial results. His departure comes at a time when Gillette, hurt by financial instability in some international markets, has been struggling to consistently deliver its target of double-digit earnings growth. C2.
 
Chirac Presses Currency Plan
President Jacques Chirac of France, visiting Washington, openly split with the American approach to stabilizing the world economy a day before meeting President Clinton. In a speech to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, Mr. Chirac urged that the United States, Japan and Europe manage the exchange rates of their currencies, keeping them within specific zones agreed on by the major nations, to restore stability to the world economy. Earlier, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin dismissed the suggestion as unworkable and ill thought out. A5.
 
Empty Accounting Classrooms
Fewer young people are entering the accounting field even as the demand for qualified accountants rises amid the rapid growth of small, risk-taking companies. The number of students graduating with an accounting degree this spring will be only about half what it was a few years ago. A1.
 
Dow Rises 103 Points
Stock prices rebounded as attention shifted from technology to insurance and other financial shares. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 103.16 points, or 1.12 percent, to 9,298.63. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 13.25 points, or 1.08 percent, to 1,237.28, while the Nasdaq market rose 11.64 points, to 2,260.55. C6.
 
'Mini-Tender' for RJR Nabisco
Schultze Asset Management, a tiny investment company, making what is known as a "mini-tender," offered to buy 2 percent of the outstanding stock of the RJR Nabisco Holdings for $24 a share, or 8 percent lower than its recent closing price. RJR Nabisco urged holders to reject the offer. C6.
 
European Interest Rates Unchanged
The European Central Bank left interest rates unchanged, resisting political pressure that it cut borrowing costs to counter slowing economic growth in the core of Europe. C6.
 
Producer Prices Rose Last Month
Prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers registered an unexpectedly large increase in January. C2.
 
Ogilvy and the 7 Small Agencies
A giant agency, Ogilvy & Mather North America, will affiliate with seven independent shops that are small but loom large in creative abilities. They will collaborate on campaigns for present clients as well as seek new business. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C5.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,298.63 up 103.16
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.38% up 0.07
The Dollar -- 119.81 yen up 0.79
 
Graphs: "TODAY" show percent change in the consumer price index from July 1998 through Dec. 1998 and the U.S. balance of trade from June 1998 through Nov. 1998. Expected figures due 8:30 Eastern:
Consumer price index, January 1999: +0.2%
U.S. balance of trade, December 1998: -15.7 billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (90%); PGP (PAR) (84%); PG (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (90%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (84%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (84%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (52%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (90%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%); NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING & DRY DOCK CO (58%); NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING EMPLOYEES' CREDIT UNION (58%); KRAFT NABISCO (52%); SCHULTZE ASSET MANAGEMENT LLC (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ACCOUNTING (86%); MERGERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); PRODUCER PRICES (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (71%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



414 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Texaco and Ecuador

 BODY:
In 1964 Ecuador invited TexPet, a subsidiary of Texaco, to drill for oil in the Amazon rain forest of the country's east. Texaco and Ecuador's Government, its partner, made Ecuador into a major oil exporter -- but at a price. Now a group of indigenous people who live in the rain forest are suing Texaco over environmental damage, which they say has contaminated their water, killed their food supply and caused disease.
The question before United States District Judge Jed Rakoff is whether he should heed the plaintiffs and hear the case in Manhattan -- Texaco is based in nearby White Plains -- or send it to Ecuador, as Texaco prefers. Judge Rakoff dismissed the suit once, but it was reinstated by an appeals court. Now he should allow the case to be heard in the only forum that can provide a fair trial and enforce penalties, an American court. 
 The plaintiffs contend that the practices used in disposing of waste oil and oil-contaminated water caused skin and respiratory infections and other diseases. While there has been no major scientific study of health conditions, researchers from the Harvard School of Public Health, whose work was financed in part by the plaintiffs, found that the local water contained dangerous levels of carcinogens.
Environmental damage is visible -- the soil is covered with a salty crust and dotted with viscous black pools, which sometimes overflow or burn and fill the air with black particles. Residents say the aquatic animals they used to eat have died and that child malnutrition is widespread. Texaco questions the validity of the studies and maintains that some of the destruction may be due to the influx of people to the zone as it developed economically.
One of the issues before Judge Rakoff is whether the decision on waste disposal was made by officials of the drilling partnership in Ecuador, as Texaco contends, or by Texaco officials in the United States. This will be settled during the trial, but the plaintiffs argue that Texaco closely managed even small decisions in its Ecuador operations. A $40 million payment that Texaco made to Ecuador's Government in 1995 for cleanup has not eliminated the problems and does not absolve the company of further responsibility to assist the local population.
Ecuador's courts cannot handle the case or enforce a judgment. Ecuador does not admit class-action suits, has no experience with cases like this one and relegates all environmental disputes to an administrative tribunal, where the largest fine has been a few thousand dollars. This case belongs in an American court, where the contesting claims can be fairly weighed. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXACO INC TEXACO INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXACO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; EDITORIALS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; SUITS AND LITIGATION DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); JUDGES (89%); RAIN FORESTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); WATER POLLUTION (76%); MALNUTRITION (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (72%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (71%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); CARCINOGENS (65%); WATER QUALITY (65%); 

PERSON: RAKOFF, JED (JUDGE) JED RAKOFF (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



415 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Yanks Invade Japan!

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Next year's big story?
PUB-DATE: March 1, 2000
 The U.S. landing force was led by the newly designated Secretary of Defense, Robert Rubin, and the newly designated Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Lawrence Summers. The U.S. force immediately seized control of the Bank of Japan and the Ministry of Finance.
The invasion came 30 days after America's trade deficit ballooned to an all-time monthly high of $35 billion. In the wake of the enormous U.S. deficit, the financier George Soros triggered a 25 percent drop in the value of the dollar by selling huge amounts of dollars and buying the new European currency, the euro. As investors followed Mr. Soros out of the dollar, they also dumped their U.S. Treasury bonds, sending U.S. interest rates up to 12 percent, overnight.
"Let's face it," one hedge-fund manager said, "with the Japanese refusing to spend any money, American consumers for the last two years have been the only ones in the world buying up everyone else's exports. Everyone was dumping their goods on America, and American workers were being put out of their jobs left and right. It was O.K. as long as the soaring stock market made Americans feel rich, but after Amazon.com crashed, and took down the whole stock market, Americans just couldn't go on being the world's buyers of last resort. The Americans had to invade Japan to force them to start spending some of their savings, and to start importing."
This explains why the first thing U.S. troops did after breaking into the Bank of Japan was to begin passing out yen on the streets of Japan's major cities. American B-52's also carpet-bombed Japan with Visa cards.
A Pentagon spokesman said the occupation, dubbed "Operation Make Them Spend," would continue until Japan had increased its imports from the rest of Asia by 50 percent.
U.S. troops went house to house, forcing Japanese to take the yen out of their mattresses and spend it within 48 hours. People caught hoarding cash after 48 hours were told their money would be handed over to someone who could spend it properly.
Those Japanese who refused to spend were rounded up and taken to re-education camps: Japanese age 50 and over were taken to schools run by the Home Shopping Network, where they were taught how to make purchases from TV, while Japanese under 50 were taken to Amazon.com school, where they were taught how to make purchases over the Internet and outfitted with AOL accounts.
General Summers, a former Harvard economist, was personally handling the re-education of Japan's Vice Minister of Finance, Eisuke Sakakibara, in a back room of the U.S. Embassy. According to rumors, Mr. Sakakibara was being made to read aloud from the works of Milton Friedman, nonstop, with his eyelids taped open. Horrible screams were heard coming from Mr. Sakakibara's cell.
General Summers said: "My predecessor, Douglas MacArthur, transformed Japan from a dictatorship to a democracy, and I will transform Japan from a producer-driven society to a consumer-driven society. MacArthur said 'Charge'; I say 'Charge it.' "
China denounced the invasion, calling it U.S. "aggression," and insisted that it cease immediately -- unless 25 percent of the yen being spent by Japanese was on Chinese-made goods, in which case Beijing said the operation would be "a contribution to the harmony and stability of Asia."
The commander of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Brig. Gen. Charlene Barshefsky, was splitting her time between Narita airport and Tokyo's main port of Yokohama, where her team of engineers was systematically blowing up Japan's trade barriers and arresting Japanese customs officials. General Barshefsky told reporters, "Let this be a warning to the Europeans, if they continue to refuse to buy our bananas."
Ironically, General Barshefsky, who in her previous job as America's top trade negotiator had often angered the State Department by her tough negotiating with U.S. allies, was the only casualty of the operation. She was shot in the back and wounded by friendly fire from the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo. The State Department spokesman, James Rubin, described the incident as "an unfortunate accident." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (54%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (58%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (58%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EURO (74%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); BONDS (70%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (61%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%); TREASURY SECURITIES (53%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L GEORGE SOROS (71%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



416 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: General Dynamics Makes $1.4 Billion Bid for Newport News

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
The General Dynamics Corporation, the nation's largest military shipbuilder, stunned the defense industry yesterday by making an unsolicited $1.4 billion offer for the rival Newport News Shipbuilding Inc., in the face of a changing Government policy that has discouraged such consolidations.
News of the offer began to leak out late yesterday and was made official by the two companies later in the day. The General Dyanmics bid had already come to Newport News on Feb. 10 in a letter. General Dynamics is offering $38.50 for every Newport News share, a premium of 35.4 percent over its closing price yesterday. It would also assume $600 million in Newport News debt. 
 The deal was surprising for two reasons: First, the Government, in a reversal of policy, has been halting military industry mergers, and this deal would create only one supplier of nuclear-powered submarines and put four of the nation's six defense shipyards in the hands of one company. Second, it throws in question Newport News's $470 million friendly takeover of Avondale Industries, the nation's No. 4 military shipbuilder. That merger was announced last month and has not yet closed.
Neither the Defense Department nor the Justice Department would comment on the offer yesterday. Late last year, the Government, after nearly a decade of encouraging military industry consolidations, stopped the $8.3 billion bid by the Lockheed Martin Corporation to buy the Northrop Grumman Corporation, signaling the start of a harsher attitude in Washington toward such combinations.
"This certainly muddies the waters for Newport News in its plans to acquire Avondale," said Paul Nisbet, an analyst with JSA Research in Newport, R.I. "And there are very possible problems with the Government on this one. Given the Government's view of the Lockheed-Northrop deal, the Government may find this unacceptable. But General Dynamics must think there's a fair chance they can do it."
In response to the bid, Newport News said that under its agreement with Avondale, it was not permitted to enter into any other merger unless the Newport News board determined it was superior financially and that it was reasonably capable of being completed. To that end, Newport News said it would not respond to the General Dynamics offer until it has received a signal from the Government that such a union would be permitted. It also said it had asked the Government to pre-review the deal for antitrust concerns.
"Because of recent antitrust scrutiny in the defense sector, we believe the General Dynamics proposal requires a careful assessment of the antitrust risk and a reliable assurance that it is unlikely to be a problem," said William P. Fricks, chief executive of Newport News, which is also the sole maker of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers. "At this time, General Dynamics has not satisfied the board's concerns."
"Should the board become satis fied, it would then be prepared to evaluate the terms of the General Dynamics proposal," he added. "Meanwhile, we remain fully committed to the Avondale transaction."
In a statement issued by General Dynamics yesterday, the company's chairman and chief executive, Nicholas D. Chabraja, said, "There is a superb strategic fit between Newport News Shipbuilding and General Dynamics, and the proposed merger would benefit the shareholders and employees of both companies, as well as our Navy customer."
General Dynamics, the parent of Electric Boat in Groton, Conn., bought Bath Iron Works in Maine in 1995 and the National Steel and Shipbuilding Company of San Diego, a cargo shipbuilder, last year.
For its part, Avondale, based in New Orleans, remained "absolutely committed" to the Newport News deal, a spokesman said. "We remain committed to going forward with this," said Gene Simon, vice president for finance at Avondale.
This General Dynamics bid pits two conflicting issues within the military industry. On one hand, the Government wants to maintain multiple suppliers to keep the cost of military supplies low and to maintain readiness. At the same time, there are real economic questions of whether the United States can afford to maintain two shipyards capable of building nuclear-powered vessels when the Government plans to build only one nuclear-powered submarine a year and only one nuclear-powered aircraft carrier every five years.
"This deal is breathtaking," said one industry consultant, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "It would concentrate about 80 percent of the military shipbuilding in one company and, together, there would be a single national supplier of nuclear-powered vessels. But there is actually something to be said for this becuase there really is not enough workload to sustain all these nuclear shipyards. But I don't know if the Government will see it that way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (96%); LMT (NYSE) (85%); NOC (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (96%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (82%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP; NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING INC; AVONDALE FINANCIAL CORP; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (96%); NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING & DRY DOCK CO (94%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (85%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (73%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP; NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING INC; AVONDALE FINANCIAL CORP; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (73%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (58%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING, CONVERSION AND REPAIR; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUBMARINES SHIPBUILDING (94%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (93%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (92%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); MERGERS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



417 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2650 words

HEADLINE: SOVEREIGN ISLANDS: A special report.;
Cruise Lines Reap Profit From Favors in Law

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
The world's largest cruise company, the Carnival Corporation, earned $2 billion in profits over the last three years. But the company, with headquarters here in two multistory buildings on Carnival Place, paid less than 1 percent in income taxes even though its earnings exceeded those of many Fortune 500 companies.
Royal Caribbean Cruises, the second-largest cruise company, whose headquarters overlook the Port of Miami, reported profits of $657 million over the same time. Its financial statements do not even include a line for income taxes. 
 Doing business under a decades-old loophole in the Federal tax code, and protected by an increasingly powerful lobbying force, the 17 major cruise lines pay practically no income tax even though they are based in this country and 90 percent of their passengers are Americans. The cruise lines, all of them registered in foreign countries, do not observe the nation's labor laws, minimum wage law and many environmental and safety regulations.
Just last fall, by having a senator insert a single word in the Federal budget bill, the 17 cruise lines won an exemption from immigration fees worth $20 million a year. In an amendment to another bill, a Congressman protected the foreign-registered cruise lines' monopoly on coveted permits to sail into Glacier Bay National Park in Alaska.
Over the last decade the cruise industry has grown rapidly, launching ever bigger ships carrying thousands of passengers. But now concern is growing over the megaships' impact on marine environments and the impact of the foreign-registered lines' tax advantages on struggling American-registered cruise ships.
In Congress, a potential battle is brewing on several fronts, including the foreign cruise ships' major advantage: while they earn their profits from the United States, they avoid nearly all income taxes by registering as foreign corporations and sailing under foreign flags. They also build their giant floating resorts overseas.
"These companies don't pay any of the taxes or live with any of the associated costs of operating a safe vessel and paying a decent wage," said Representative Gene Taylor, Democrat of Mississippi, whose district includes shipbuilding companies, "and it is absurd to allow them access to the American market free of charge."
Last month the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, a Republican who is also from Mississippi, called on the Clinton Administration to work with Congress to strengthen the American maritime industry by re-examining the advantages enjoyed by foreign companies.
"This nation's tax policies should promote business growth, not stifle it," Mr. Lott said.
And this month, two Democrats in the House, Representatives John A. Dingell of Michigan and Henry A. Waxman of California, initiated an investigation by the Commerce and Government Reform Committees into illegal dumping of oily waste and other pollutants by cruise ships, to determine whether the United States should strengthen its regulation of the industry.
"The major companies may argue that they have environmental programs in place," Mr. Dingell said, "but as long as these practices persist, it calls into question either the quality of the plans, or the commitment of senior management, or both."
Industry representatives respond that cruise lines adhere to strict international environmental and safety standards that are enforced by the International Maritime Organization, a regulatory agency affiliated with the United Nations. And they say immunity from American taxes is a long-recognized element of international law on ocean-going trade.
Cruise lines pay more than $66 million a year in fees to American ports, as well as other taxes and fees, according to the industry. And a new study done for the industry found that cruise lines bought $6.6 billion worth of American goods and services in 1997, generating 176,433 jobs.
"We generate billions of dollars every year here in the U.S. economy, and the United States is a major beneficiary of our industry," said Cynthia A. Colenda, president of the International Council of Cruise Lines, which represents the major cruise lines."This industry is a revenue generator, and it helps economies throughout this country."
But while the 17 cruise lines flying foreign flags and some of their suppliers have prospered, the American maritime industry has fallen on hard times. The only cruise ship flying an American flag is the 50-year-old Independence, which travels among the Hawaiian Islands, and no deep-ocean cruise ship has been built in the United States for at least 40 years.
 
Tax Disadvantage For American Lines
Efforts are under way to develop an American-flag cruise industry, but American shipping companies that must pay United States taxes and wages face serious disadvantages.
The United States corporate income tax rate is 35 percent, though most corporations pay a modestly lower rate through various deductions. If Carnival was an American corporation paying taxes at the 35 percent rate -- or even if it was a foreign corporation in a different business here, it would have paid about $700 million in taxes to the United States over the last three years on $2 billion in net income.
Instead, Carnival is registered in Panama, which does not impose a business income tax, and the company paid only $15 million in income taxes -- on the earnings of one division, which has hotels and tour operations in the United States and so is not exempt from taxes.
The tax break is in a section of the Internal Revenue Code that exempts foreign corporations' income from ships and aircraft from taxation, if the country in which the corporation is organized offers the equivalent exemption to American corporations. The rules were set up to promote international shipping and air trade.
Cruise companies have been able to take unique advantage of the provision by registering in small countries like Liberia, Panama and the Bahamas, which do not impose a corporate income tax. Major airlines like British Airways or Lufthansa do not pay United States taxes either, under the provision, but unlike the cruise lines, they are not based in the United States and they pay substantial taxes in their home countries.
And American-registered cruise companies do not benefit from a reciprocal exemption because they remain subject to United States taxes, even on their international business.
"Our members are fully subject to U.S. income taxes, even if we take our vessels into foreign waters," said Edmund B. Welch, legislative director for the Passenger Vessel Association, the trade group for passenger ships flying under American flags, which are mostly sightseeing and excursion vessels.
"We have ships relocate from the Pacific Northwest down to Mexico in the winter," Mr. Welch said, "but they still pay U.S. taxes on their Mexican operations."
Foreign-registered cruise lines also pay workers far less than their American counterparts. Their crew members, mainly from developing countries, routinely work 10 to 12 hours a day, 7 days a week, for as little as $400 a month, according to a survey last year by Seafarers' House, a nonprofit agency that ministers to workers at Florida ports.
 
Big Spending On Lobbying
There has never been a serious effort to alter the tax rules, and the industry has developed an effective lobbying presence in Washington to protect its interests.
While all the members of the International Council of Cruise Lines are foreign businesses, the campaign finance law allows the organization to have a political action committee and raise donations for it from the cruise line employees who are American citizens. In the 1997-98 campaign, the group donated $166,146 to House and Senate candidates, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan organization.
The council spent more on lobbying. In its latest full-year report filed with the Senate, it said it spent $557,023 on lobbying in 1997.
Most of the money, $380,000, went to the firm Alcalde & Fay for work on tax and immigration issues. The firm, run by Hector Alcalde, a former Congressional staff member, received an additional $200,000 in the first half of 1998. Mr. Alcalde is the father of Cynthia Colenda, who worked at his firm before taking over as president of the International Council of Cruise Lines.
The effectiveness of the lobbying was evident in the budget bill for the current fiscal year. An innocuous-looking item, Section 114, amended the immigration act by inserting a single word, "State," and a comma. Doing so eliminated as much as $20 million a year in fees from cruise lines.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service had been authorized to assess $6 per passenger to cover inspection costs for people arriving in American ports on cruise ships, unless their cruise had begun in Canada, Mexico or a United States territory. Adding "state" expanded the exemption to passengers whose travel started in the United States -- eliminating the fee for all but the tiny number of transoceanic passengers.
The immigration service calculated that the change cost it $20 million a year, said a spokesman, Greg Gagne.
"We were aware that it was going in," Mr. Gagne said, "but it certainly wasn't our choice or our preference. We think all carriers should share in the cost equally."
In fact, however, the fee had not been assessed in recent years. Mr. Gagne and industry representatives said they did not know why.
 
Secrecy Behind The Changes
The change originated in the Senate, but records do not identify its author. Senator Ted Stevens, the Alaska Republican who is chairman of the Appropriations Committee, said through a spokeswoman that he knew who wrote the section and that he had approved it, but he refused to identify the senator. "Senator Stevens is respecting the confidentiality rules of the Senate," said the spokeswoman, Jen Siciliano.
Mr. Taylor ran into similar secrecy when he tried to close a loophole that allows foreign-registered cruise lines to operate gambling cruises out of American ports.
Under a century-old law designed to protect the American shipping industry, ships flying foreign flags cannot travel between American ports, or leave from and return to the same American port, unless they visit a foreign port as part of the voyage. That is why foreign cruise ships sailing from Miami or San Diego stop at a foreign location before returning, a practice critics call "cleansing the voyage" for tax purposes.
But the Customs Service ruled that foreign vessels meet the requirement in some cases if they merely sail three miles out into international waters before returning. That ruling allows foreign ships to operate gambling "cruises to nowhere" that depart from an American port, travel briefly into international waters and return to the same port without visiting another country.
Those types of cruises are operated by smaller foreign cruise lines operating from American ports, not the major lines.
Seeking to claim that business for American ships, Representative Taylor won House approval three times, from 1993 to 1995, for legislation that would require foreign-registered vessels to stop at a foreign port even on a "cruise to nowhere."
Each time the bill got to the Senate, at least one anonymous senator put a hold on it , blocking any vote. Mr. Taylor said he was unable to identify who stopped the measure, but he said he knew who was behind it.
"The first time I went to pass that bill in the House, I will never forget what happened to me," Mr. Taylor said, describing a 1993 incident. "As I'm walking across the street to go handle the bill on the House floor, the chief lobbyist for the foreign cruise industry comes up and offers me and my family a free cruise if I withdraw my bill. He says, 'It's just so that you get to know us.' It sure sounded like a bribe to me." Mr. Taylor said the lobbyist was Mr. Alcalde.
In a written response, Mr. Alcalde called the accusation reprehensible. He said that the Congressman misunderstood what he said, and that he did not even have the authority to offer anyone a free cruise.
"It is true that I suggested he inspect the cruise ships," Mr. Alcalde said. "It is important that to take a position as a legislator, one must understand the industries that they are attempting to regulate.
"It is also true that I suggested that they are an excellent vacation, especially for families. Never did I offer Mr. Taylor any favor or incentive, and I am truly sorry that he misunderstood those words."
The cruise trade group opposed Mr. Taylor's bill in 1992, telling Congress it feared that the restrictions could be applied too broadly to its members. The next year, the group said it could support the bill with clarifications spelling out that it was intended for the "cruise to nowhere" trade.
 
Permit Advantage In Glacier Park
The industry's influence also paid dividends last October when Representative Don Young, Republican of Alaska, preserved the monopoly held by foreign cruise lines on entry permits to Glacier Bay National Park, a popular cruise destinations.
In an effort to increase competition for concession business at national parks, Congress last year eliminated a long-standing provision that allowed existing operators to retain concessions by matching the best offer from any other company. The provision made it virtually impossible for an outside company to win a concession.
Among the parks that would have been opened to competition was Glacier Bay, where concerns over the environment and wildlife have restricted entry permits for ships. The day the bill passed the House, Mr. Young, chairman of the Committee on Resources, inserted an amendment extending the preference for operators at Glacier Bay until 2009.
Mr. Young has received about $45,000 in contributions from cruise industry employees in recent years. One of his former staff members also works as the chief lobbyist for Holland American Line, the division of Carnival that has the most entry permits for Glacier Bay.
Efforts to interview Mr. Young over the course of a week were unsuccessful. Last fall, he said that retaining the preference was necessary to avoid disrupting cruises and to protect Alaskan tourism.
"Cruise ship companies depend on a smooth process for bidding on permits to enter Glacier Bay in order to accommodate the thousands of passengers who visit this park every year," he said.
Kevin Apgar, the National Park Service concession manager for Alaska, said in an interview that the exemption was anti-competitive and not necessary to insure smooth cruise operations.
"I don't see any justification for it," Mr. Apgar said. "The industry made a special pleading and got special treatment over all the other large concessions nationwide."
Three American companies with smaller ships submitted proposals last year for some of 42 new cruise-ship permits being awarded by the Park Service.
"The big operators still have a preference and we expect our application to be denied," said Gary Sorrels, vice president of American West Steamboat in Seattle, which is planning a 250-passenger cruise ship.
Officials at the National Park Service in Washington said they expected to award most of the new permits to Holland America, which they said submitted the best proposal, within the next few weeks. The company promised new studies on the impact of cruise ship noise on whales and said it would finance an on-site equipment and personnel to respond to an oil spill in the park.
The award is likely despite Holland America's guilty plea last August to discharging oily waste in the waters of Alaska's Inside Passage.
"We're aware of the dumping," said Bill Pierce, the Alaska desk officer at the park service, "but Holland America's proposal was very good."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Carnival line ship, registered abroad, was docked last week in Miami. (Alex Quesada for The New York Times)(pg. A1); The rapidly growing cruise industry is launching bigger ships carrying thousands of passengers. An immigration official recently checked passports aboard a ship of Royal Caribbean Cruises, which reported profits of $657 million over the last three years. (Alex Quesada for The New York Times)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (95%); RCL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (95%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (95%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (95%); ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISES LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; SURVEYS AND SERIES; CRUISES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; MINIMUM WAGE; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; TAX DEDUCTIONS CRUISES (95%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); SHIPBUILDING (70%); REFUGEES (68%); 

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LOTT, TRENT (SEN); DINGELL, JOHN (REPR); WAXMAN, HENRY A (REPR) TRENT LOTT (71%); JOHN DINGELL (69%); GENE TAYLOR (50%); HENRY WAXMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



418 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Admiral Says More Money Is Needed for Embassies
Adm. William J. Crowe, the retired Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who led a State Department investigation into the bombings of two American embassies in Africa last summer, said the department's fear of demanding additional money from Congress could leave more embassies vulnerable to attack. Admiral Crowe, a former Ambassador to London, also said the security budget requested by the State Department this month was inadequate. A1
 
Rebel's Arrest Unites Kurds
Political divisions have long undermined the scattered Kurds in their battle for a homeland. But for the overwhelming majority of the estimated 850,000 Kurds now living in Europe, the arrest of the rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan has constituted a moment when differences are swept away, however fleetingly, by a shared sense of outrage. A1 

Mr. Ocalan has been brought to a small Turkish island that usually serves as an open prison to which petty criminals are sent. But Mr. Ocalan has been placed in an isolation cell, unable to enjoy the island's delights. He is likely to be tried for treason and other crimes that carry the death penalty. A12
 
Prime Minister Costas Simitis of Greece, seeking to contain a growing scandal over Greece's role in the capture of Mr. Ocalan, has replaced his Foreign Minister and two other Cabinet members. A12
 
Pressure Mounts on Milosevic
The military and diplomatic pressure continued to mount on President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia to choose between tolerating NATO-led peacekeepers in Kosovo or suffering NATO air strikes for refusing them. As the deadline neared for a settlement in peace talks, Administration and European officials involved in the talks said, Mr. Milosevic, an authoritarian leader who values his grip on power above all, will essentially make his decision based on what least erodes his position. A13
 
Chirac Urges Economic Curbs
President Jacques Chirac of France, visiting Washington, openly split with the American approach to stabilizing the world economy. In a speech to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, Mr. Chirac recommended that the United States, Japan and Europe manage the exchange rates of their currencies. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin dismissed the suggestion. A5
 
Jordan's Neighbors Pitch In
King Abdullah's new Government has received a strong and somewhat unexpected show of support from its neighbors to help gain its financial footing. Assurances of long-term backing had already been provided by the Clinton Administration and the I.M.F. Jordan has also received promises of financial support from Saudi Arabia and Israel and pledges of continued trade ties from Syria and Iraq. A3
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A14-18
 
An Outside Prosecutor May Investigate Starr
The Justice Department is considering whether to appoint an outside prosecutor to conduct its inquiry into charges of possible misconduct by the independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr, Government officials said. The investigation would focus on whether Mr. Starr's prosecutors had improperly coerced witnesses, had disclosed grand jury secrets to reporters and had withheld possible conflicts of interest from Justice Department lawyers. A1
 
Mr. Starr was said to have agreed to allow Monica S. Lewinsky to go forward with her interview with Barbara Walters, but had placed restrictions on what she could say. A16
 
Clinton Calls on New Hampshire
President Clinton paid a visit to Manchester, N.H., to discuss health care, greet old friends and raise money for the state Democratic Party. It was his first domestic trip out of Washington since his Senate acquittal. A16
 
An Official G.O.P. Candidate
Senator Robert C. Smith, a conservative Republican from New Hampshire, formally declared his intention to seek the Presidency next year. State Republican Party leaders did not welcome his announcement. A15
 
A Military Pitch at Microsoft
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen, left, took his campaign to "reconnect America to its military" to Microsoft's headquarters in Washington State, where 150 employees gave him a polite and attentive hearing. William H. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, noted that the Defense Department was Microsoft's largest client. A17
 
Malfunction Aboard Marine Jet
A member of the crew of the Marine Corps jet that severed a gondola cable, plunging 20 skiers to their deaths in the Italian alps last year, testified at the pilot's court-martial that a piece of equipment that warns when the plane is too low acted erratically a few minutes into the flight. A17
 
Children and Pesticides
Consumer Reports said that domestic produce, including some of the fruits and vegetables favored by children, tended to have more pesticide residue, or more toxic residue, than imported produce. A14
 
Virus May Be Killing Elephants
Researchers say a major cause of death among young Asian elephants in captivity may be a herpes virus carried by African elephants, a separate species with which Asian elephants are often housed in zoos but never encounter in the wild. The virus poses a threat to the animals' conservation in zoos. A18
 
French Extradition Ruling
Ira S. Einhorn, 58, a former hippie convicted while a fugitive of killing his girlfriend in Philadelphia 21 years ago, can be extradited to the United States for a new trial if he will not face the death penalty, a French court ruled. His French lawyers said they would appeal, and said the process would take two years. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Giuliani Yields Ground In Dispute Over Homeless
The Giuliani administration, reversing a decision, said it would not evict five community programs from a building in Brooklyn where the Mayor had threatened to put a homeless shelter in a dispute with the City Council over homeless legislation. B1
 
Changes in Lottery System
New York State lottery officials announced measures intended to raise revenue. Among the changes, a dollar will buy only one Lotto chance, instead of the current two, but the number and size of the smaller cash prizes will increase and players will have to choose 6 numbers from among only 51, instead of 54. B1
 
Drug Arrest of Off-Duty Officer
Officer Andre Formey of the Transit Division was arrested on a North Carolina highway with a kilogram of crack cocaine and was charged with drug trafficking, officials said. B3
 
Plea in Bronx H.I.V. Case
Nushawn Williams, the H.I.V.-positive man said to have knowingly infected more than a dozen girls and women upstate, pleaded guilty to reckless endangerment for having unprotected sex with a Bronx girl, the District Attorney said. B3
 
Sounding Out Some Experts
Hillary Rodham Clinton's political adviser, Harold Ickes contacted union leaders and campaign consultants to help Mrs. Clinton decide whether to run for the Senate. B6
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
WEEKEND E1-32; E33-46
 
SPORTS D1-10
 
Yankees-Blue Jays Trade
The Yankees obtained Roger Clemens, regarded as perhaps the greatest pitcher of his era, but had to give up David Wells, who threw a perfect game at Yankee Stadium last May, relief pitcher Graeme Lloyd and infielder Homer Bush. A1
 
Mariano Rivera, the Yankees' closer, won an abitration decision raising his salary to $4.25 million. D4
 
Atlanta Slugger Has Cancer
The Braves said Andres Galarraga had a cancerous tumor in his back and would miss the season. D2
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
 
Transamerica to Be Sold
Aegon, a big Dutch company that has been on a shopping spree in the fiercely competitive life insurance business, said it would pay $9.7 billion in cash and stock to buy Transamerica, the sixth-largest life insurer in the United States. C1
 
Stock prices rebounded as attention shifted from technology to insurance and other financial shares after the Transamerica deal was announced. The Dow rose 103.16 points, or 1.12 percent, to 9,298.63; the S.& P. 500 climbed 13.25 points, or 1.08 percent, to 1,237.28, and the technology-laden Nasdaq rose 11.64 points, or five-tenths of a percent, to 2,260.55. C6
 
Compaq Cast as Fearful Giant
A Government lawyer at Microsoft's antitrust trial depicted Compaq, the world's largest maker of personal computers, as so fearful of Microsoft that it repeatedly abandoned software products it preferred in favor of Microsoft's offerings and even passed on information about a competing operating system in violation of a nondisclosure agreement. C1
 
Gillette Chief to Step Down
The chairman and chief executive of the Gillette, Alfred M. Zeien, said he would retire on April 15, after a year of mixed financial results. He will be replaced by Michael C. Hawley, the company's president and chief operating officer. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES A19
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Judge Wright's option; rethinking fraternities; Texaco and Ecuador; Roger Clemens in pinstripes.
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E45
 
Weather B10
 
Public Lives B2
 
TV Listings E31
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); JORDAN (91%); GREECE (90%); FRANCE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); JORDAN (91%); GREECE (90%); FRANCE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); MISCONDUCT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); MISDEMEANORS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); SCANDALS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); TREASON (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (66%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); EXCHANGE RATES (60%); 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



419 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: In Added Role, Pentagon Chief Is Traveling Salesman

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash., Feb. 18

 BODY:
Fewer young people say they are willing to consider military service. The number of veterans on Capitol Hill declines with each new Congress. The armed services have shrunk, and military bases are closing.
The military's place in American society is not what it once was. But has it really come to this? Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen has started what he calls "a very aggressive campaign" to convince the public that the military still matters. 
 In a series of appearances not normally associated with the nation's top Defense Department official, Mr. Cohen, who himself never served in uniform, is trying to make just that case. The hope, he says, is to "reconnect America to its military" before what many have portrayed as a widening gap between the military and civilian cultures becomes a more dangerous breach.
Today, he took his campaign to the headquarters of the Microsoft Corporation, whose ranks are filled with a generation of the sort of educated, innovative young people who now seem to give little thought to a stint in the all-volunteer military, let alone a career.
"There is also a gap that exists between some in this industry and our military," Mr. Cohen told some 150 polite and attentive employees in Building 43 on Microsoft's campus here in Redmond. "It's not unique to this industry, but is somewhat indicative of our country."
In introducing Mr. Cohen, William H. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, noted that the Defense Department was Microsoft's largest client and discussed ways the two could do even more business together in the future. But Mr. Cohen devoted the bulk of his remarks to a recitation of the military's role in insuring global stability that allowed companies like Microsoft to prosper.
Mr. Cohen said, "We have to be mindful that the prosperity derived from our vibrant world economy, the stability which allows vigorous trade, and the economic and intellectual freedom that enables innovation would be simply impossible without the persuasiveness of our ideals, the persistence of our diplomacy, and the power and actions and the sacrifices of our U.S. military."
Mr. Cohen "has become personally seized with the idea," the Pentagon's spokesman, Kenneth H. Bacon, said. "He believes if people don't understand what the military does, they won't support it," Mr. Bacon added.
In January, Mr. Cohen addressed the Illinois General Assembly in Springfield, calling for moral and political support for the armed services. In the weeks ahead, trips are planned to the Arkansas Legislature, the Kansas City Board of Trade and City Hall in New Orleans.
Stephen Hess, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said he would have expected a Secretary of State, not Defense, to have to make a public plea for attention, as Madeleine K. Albright did to advocate foreign aid when she first became Secretary in 1997.
"It's always been felt that Defense had its own constituency," Mr. Hess said.
That is what makes Mr. Cohen's campaigns even more unusual. As an institution, the military remains widely respected. A Harris poll released two weeks ago said Americans had more confidence in the military than in any other American institution, beating out the Supreme Court, Wall Street and organized religion. What's more, many cities are deeply shaped by the military's presence -- imagine San Diego without the Navy -- and the armed services still have enormous influence in Congress and beyond.
Still, Mr. Cohen said there was a danger that that support had already begun to wane.
"There's less of a presence in the daily lives of most Americans," Mr. Cohen said in an interview at the Pentagon the other day. "And so to the extent that they are not reminded of the role the military plays day in and day out, there's a danger they will not be as supportive."
For Mr. Cohen, this campaign has a practical side, too. President Clinton, under pressure from the Pentagon, has proposed more than $100 billion in new military spending over the next six years. And while Republicans in Congress are inclined to spend even more, there are some lawmakers who question why there needs to be any increase.
It is not at all clear what effect Mr. Cohen's campaign has had or will ever have. After his address to the Illinois Legislature, in which he appealed for support for those serving "from the frozen hills of Korea and Bosnia to the flight line at Scott Air Force Base" near Belleville, Ill., Mr. Cohen was surrounded by lawmakers wanting to know whether his visit somehow meant that the Pentagon intended to close Scott.
Others say Mr. Cohen's campaign is not enough.
"Talking to the Chamber of Commerce here and there is not going to help the problem," said John Hillen, a former Army captain and now senior fellow at the Center for Strategic Studies in Washington.
Mr. Hillen said the services needed to do more to recruit society's elite, perhaps by offering shorter stints or offering scholarships beyond those given to the service academies.
"I'd think the bigger problem is down the road," he said, "when we have an entire corps of leaders, whether in business or politics or academia, who don't have a clue what the military is all about."
Mr. Cohen's remarks today seemed well received. Sarah Wustner, 23, a Microsoft programmer, said she agreed that the military had "a lot less of a presence" in the lives of people like her.
"The Navy kept sending me letters when I was in school, offering scholarships," Ms. Wustner said. "But I thought, Why would I want to give up my life when I could be creating new technology?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (84%); KANSAS CITY BOARD OF TRADE INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY); MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); VOLUNTEERS MILITARY BASES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEC) BILL GATES (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



420 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Shortage of Accounting Students Raises Concern on Audit Quality

BYLINE: By MELODY PETERSEN 

 BODY:
Kevin Lee wanted to be an accountant. But that was before the 22-year-old New York University student worked one summer at an accounting firm. "Accounting is stable," he said, "but it's not exciting because you're doing the same thing over and over." And he says he has the potential to make much more money on Wall Street.
Plenty of young people are reaching such conclusions these days, causing some in the profession to fear that the supply of accountants will not keep pace with the demand brought on, in part, by the boom in small, risk-taking companies whose books cry out for scrutiny. That, in turn, has raised concerns about a corresponding decline in the quality of auditors, who act as watchdogs for millions of investors, as the profession reaches deeper to fill its ranks. 
 From Georgetown University to the University of Colorado, the number of students graduating with an accounting degree this spring will be only about half what it was a few years ago. Accounting professors fret about classrooms that seem empty. Large accounting firms, in the midst of their busy season, are aggressively recruiting liberal arts majors, science majors -- any student with an affinity for numbers.
"We're too short now," said Herb Schoenfeld, who runs an accounting firm in Woodbury, N.Y. "It's almost impossible to find people. Every good accountant is working."
As accountants debate what to do, the profession's largest and most powerful group has proposed to make the job more attractive by, in part, reducing the requirements. The group is lobbying state legislatures to eliminate the two years of on-the-job experience that most accountants now need at a public accounting firm to earn the right to put the letters C.P.A. -- for certified public accountant -- behind their name. And the group also wants to rewrite the tough exam that accountants consider a rite of passage.
But some accountants, regulators and investors adamantly oppose that plan, saying it makes about as much sense as lowering the standards for emergency-room nurses or police officers if shortages developed in those jobs.
"This is not in the public's best interest," wrote members of the National Conference of C.P.A. Practitioners, a group that represents about 1,000 small accounting firms, in a letter to the much larger American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the group that is pushing to relax the standards.
But almost everyone agrees that something must quickly be done. Even before the recent steep declines on many campuses, the number of people sitting for the C.P.A. exam had fallen 15 percent between 1990 and 1997. And even as the number of public companies in the United States has grown by almost 30 percent in the last decade, the number of professionals in public accounting has remained almost unchanged at about 131,000.
While some may not see the urgency of finding more people to do what many like to refer to as bean counting, public accountants play a key role: acting as watchdogs for millions of American investors. Ever since the Depression, every public company has been required by law to hire outside auditors to review its financial reports and give an independent, expert opinion on whether management's numbers are trustworthy.
Computerization has eased some of the crunch by allowing accounting firms to send fewer accountants out on some jobs. Nonetheless, many financial experts say that given the freewheeling finances of so many of America's newest companies in industries like high technology there has never been a greater need for sharp, tough auditors who can see behind the spreadsheets.
John C. Bogle, founder of the Vanguard Group, the giant mutual fund company that manages billions of dollars that Americans have poured into the stock market in recent years, said any move to relax the standards for public accountants "would be very troublesome."
"It is full disclosure and accurate financial statements that are the basis for our capital market system," Mr. Bogle said.
Ordinarily, the laws of supply and demand would take care of any shortage, perhaps by raising accountants' salaries to make the profession more enticing. And certainly, accounting firms would love to be able to charge more for their services. But they find corporate clients reluctant to pay much more for their annual audits, even if that stinginess means running a higher risk of later being sued by shareholders.
Sensing that they can make more money elsewhere, some students are heading instead to Wall Street, others are changing their majors from accounting to information technology, while still others are aiming to become consultants. Mr. Lee, the New York University student, figures he can earn $40,000 a year in starting pay at an accounting firm. Wall Street offers only a bit more in salary, but bonuses can make a huge difference, he adds. His experience appears typical.
At the University of Colorado's campus in Colorado Springs, Prof. Paul B. W. Miller has only 13 students in his intermediate accounting course this semester, down from 23 last year.
And, at Georgetown University, Scott Whisenant, an accounting professor, said 50 percent fewer students were expected to graduate with a degree in accounting this spring than in 1996. As a result, he's noticed Ernst & Young, the big accounting firm, is increasingly willing to give nonaccounting majors entry-level jobs and train them later. "We're seeing the really bright students deciding not to become auditors," Mr. Whisenant said. "What does this mean when it comes to the quality of future auditors?"
The 1997 results of the C.P.A. test, which all accountants must pass to be licensed by their states, provide some evidence that Mr. Whisenant's casual observations that bright students are shunning the accounting profession may be true. In November 1997, according to the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy, which represents the licensing bodies in each state, only 12.5 percent of the candidates taking the test for the first time passed all four parts -- the lowest percentage since 1985, when the association began keeping track.
Regulators at the Securities and Exchange Commission say they see signs that auditors' work may be slipping. Indeed, the accounting firms that audited companies like the Cendant Corporation, Waste Management and Livent Inc. have recently been sued after some numbers in the financial statements proved to be wishful thinking.
The commission has formed a panel to hold hearings on why auditors failed to detect some of the recent high-profile financial frauds, and why accounting scandals seem to be on the rise. Lynn E. Turner, the commission's chief accountant, said the proposal to reduce the on-the-job experience requirement for auditors might only make matters worse. Accountants who have just graduated, he said, lack the gray hair to know where to look to find numbers most likely to be wrong.
"The classroom is a great primer," Mr. Turner said, "but it sure doesn't get you there."
In a recent letter, he told the big accounting firms that "it is essential" for experienced partners to spend more time on complicated audits rather than leaving most of the work to auditors fresh out of school.
Leaders at the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the national organization that administers the C.P.A. exam, say they do not believe their efforts to relax the experience requirements will hurt auditor competence. Instead, they say, the changes are needed to woo talented people back to the profession.
Because fewer accountants are choosing to work as auditors at public accounting firms, institute officials say that accountants should no longer be required to work at a public accounting firm for two years as an outside auditor to be licensed as a C.P.A. They are asking state legislatures to change laws to require only one year of experience, which could be obtained by working for any licensed accountant, even one who works in a corporate treasurer's office.
Barry C. Melancon, the institute's president, said that the new experience requirements would include measures aimed at maintaining high- quality audits. For example, accountants supervising an audit would be required to have much more experience than other accountants.
"The quality of auditors is going to improve in this environment," Mr. Melancon said.
In some ways, the profession is a victim of its own efforts in years past to raise standards. The institute, which has 330,000 members, flexed its political muscle once before to get states to enact new education levels for accountants, increasing the needed college credit to 150 hours from 120 hours. Almost every state adopted that measure, even though it was expected to scare some applicants.
But this fight might be harder. In Kansas, Paul Allen, the chairman of the state's licensing board, said that board members oppose the institute's plan to reduce the minimum work experience.
"It's only by real live experience in public accounting," Mr. Allen said, "that you can gain the skills and the objectivity that we believe are key."
The institute has also proposed changes to the exhausting two-day exam that is used to weed out those who lack the knowledge, skills or stamina to be an accountant. The proposal, which would shorten the test to two parts from four parts, shrink the section on business law, and let people who score well early on answer fewer questions, is drawing concerns from those who fear the exam will be less difficult.
But Arleen R. Thomas, the institute's vice president for professional standards, said that the exam would still cover all subjects that the profession believes accountants should know. "We don't want to change the difficulty of the C.P.A. test," she said.
Peter Capelli, a labor economist at the Wharton School, said that the number of flight hours needed by airline pilots had been raised and lowered over the years depending on the number of pilots needed. And, he recalled, the medical profession raised its requirements when a glut of doctors appeared.
Some accountants say that they believe, if anything, that raising -- not lowering -- the bar is the real answer.
"Toughening the standards increases the prestige and attractiveness of a profession," said Howard Schilit, the founder of the Center for Financial Research and Analysis in Rockville, Md.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Lee was studying to become an accountant at New York University, but instead decided to head to the excitement and money of Wall Street. Plenty of other students are making the same decision. (Nancy Seisel/The New York Times)(pg. C3)
 
Graphs: The number of public companies has grown in the 1990's . . . but the number of auditors has stayed the same . . . and there are fewer people entering the profession. Graphs show accounting companies listed on stock exchanges*, number of accountants working in public accounting firms** and number of people taking the C.P.A. exam, from '91 through '98.
 
*New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq
**Figures are for members of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
 
(Sources: Securities Industry Association (number of companies); American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (number of accountants); National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (number of people taking exams).)(pg. C3)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CPA PRACTITIONERS AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (62%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CPA PRACTITIONERS AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; WAGES AND SALARIES; COMPANY REPORTS BUSINESS EDUCATION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); AUDITS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%); LOBBYING (63%); 

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



421 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Pressures Mount Against Defiant Milosevic

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: RAMBOUILLET, France, Feb. 18

 BODY:
As the deadline neared for a settlement in the Kosovo peace talks, the military and diplomatic pressure mounted today on President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia to choose between tolerating NATO-led peacekeepers in Kosovo or suffering NATO air strikes for refusing them.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said that she had again spelled out the choice in a telephone call to the Yugoslav leader and that she would return Saturday to the talks, which she visited last weekend. 
 Mr. Milosevic has remained in Belgrade throughout the negotiations, set to finish at noon on Saturday, and diplomats here do not rule out a high-level trip to Belgrade before a final agreement is reached.
Mr. Milosevic, an authoritarian leader who values his grip on power above all else, will essentially make his decision based on what least erodes his position, Administration and European officials involved in the talks said today.
They said it appeared that Mr. Milosevic would finally calculate that air strikes -- threatened by NATO as punishment for failing to agree to foreign soldiers on his territory -- would be more destabilizing to his rule than NATO-led ground troops keeping the peace in Kosovo.
But the officials said Mr. Milosevic was bound to keep everyone on tenterhooks until the very last moment, and possibly for some hours or a day beyond the deadline.
A senior European diplomat involved in the negotiations, who knows Serbia well, said that top officers in the Yugoslav Army had told Mr. Milosevic that it would be very difficult for the military to recover from air strikes against air defense systems in Serbia and Kosovo, a southern province of Serbia.
After nearly a decade of wars, sanctions and official corruption, Yugoslavia, which consists of Serbia and Montenegro, is economically weak and could not afford to repair the damage to its military installations, the diplomat said.
But Administration officials and the European diplomat said they could not be certain of Mr. Milosevic's decision. Thus preparations were moving ahead both for air strikes and, in the event of a settlement, for the deployment of ground troops.
Tonight, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen ordered six B-52's, equipped to fire cruise missiles, to Europe. On Wednesday, Mr. Cohen ordered 51 aircraft, including stealth fighters, to Europe.
President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia said today that he had warned President Clinton that Russia opposed air strikes. But the White House discounted Mr. Yeltsin's statement, saying it had been quite a while since the two leaders had spoken.
To stress the gravity of the choice facing Mr. Milosevic, the two top NATO officials flew today to Skopje, Macedonia, which borders Kosovo, to finish details for the deployment of troops and, in the case of air strikes, the evacuation of international monitors from Kosovo.
The 1,300 monitors, several hundred of whom are American, would drive out of Kosovo starting Sunday if the peace talks failed, a NATO official said. The monitors, who have been trying to defuse the tensions between the ethnic Albanian fighters of the Kosovo Liberation Army and the Serbian security forces, would have to leave Kosovo before air strikes could begin.
The three foreign diplomats who have so far led 11 days of talks between the Serbian and ethnic Albanian delegations here said at a news conference that both sides had been presented today with a final version of the political settlement.
There was a lot of grumbling from both delegations, the negotiators said, about details in the plan that call for a new constitution and legislature for a three-year period during which Kosovo would become autonomous from Serbia. Kosovo, where 90 percent of the estimated 2 million inhabitants are ethnic Albanians, was stripped of its autonomy in 1989 by Mr. Milosevic when he was President of Serbia.
The Albanians, for example, were unhappy with a proposal to add a second chamber to the new legislature, potentially giving the Serbs veto power, said an adviser to the delegation, Filippo di Robilant.
The diplomats made clear, though, that the political aspects of the peace settlement would not block the deal.
The American in the trio, Ambassador Christopher R. Hill, who flew to see Mr. Milosevic on Tuesday night, said he did not "rule in or rule out" another trip to Belgrade.
NATO has announced that a force of about 28,000 soldiers, mostly European but including up to 4,000 Americans, would be deployed to keep peace in Kosovo, an impoverished region about the size of Connecticut.
The soldiers would supervise the demilitarization over an undefined period -- probably six months -- of the ethnic Albanian insurgents, the Kosovo Liberation Army, and would insure that the Serbian police and Yugoslav Army drastically reduced their forces to levels stipulated in the peace settlement.
Already there is a hint that Mr. Milosevic is trying to deal with what amounts to his propaganda problem -- how to explain to his public that NATO troops are acceptable.
The spokesman for Mr. Milosevic's Socialist Party, Ivica Dacic, said today that foreign troops "without the assent of our country" would be considered "an aggression against our country." By using these words, Mr. Dacic had moved away from Mr. Milosevic's previous insistence that foreign troops would be a breach of Serbia's sovereignty, raising instead the possibility that they could be invited in.
In weighing his options, Mr. Milosevic has also been told by European countries that agreeing to a peace settlement and implementing it might end investment sanctions imposed on him last summer because of the Kosovo crisis, the European diplomat said.
A senior Clinton Administration official said, however, that Washington had not made any hints that it would consider easing sanctions.
A seasoned Serbian analyst of Mr. Milosevic, Bratislav Grubacic, wrote today in his daily newsletter VIP that Serbians -- and the world -- had to hope that Mr. Milosevic would not be so foolish as to follow in the footsteps of a 14th-century hero of Serbian history.
"They hope that he will not follow the example of Prince Lazar, who in 1389 decided to fight it out, lost the battle of Kosovo and became a legendary loser, ushering in five centuries of slavery under the Turks," Mr. Grubacic wrote. He thus turned on its head the Serbian legend that the battle marked the start of a successful 500-year struggle to preserve the Eastern Orthodox faith under the Muslim rule of the Ottoman Turks.
"Knowing Milosevic, it is hard to believe that he's prepared to abandon his life of ease in his Belgrade Dedinje residence," Mr. Grubacic noted, referring to Mr. Milosevic's handsome palace.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RAMBOUILLET (FRANCE); SERBIA (99%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); CORRUPTION (50%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



422 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1769 words

HEADLINE: Arrest Uniting Europe's Kurds In Indignation

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Feb. 18

 BODY:
For a decade, Kurds have been coming to Germany seeking political asylum, and today one of them, Amin Aram, walked into the Kurdish Community Center here, took a tea from a friend, and declared, "Every one of us, without exception, is angry."
A window cleaner, Mr. Aram, 31, is one of 210,000 Kurds who have come to Germany since 1989, fleeing various forms of violence. Unlike Abdullah Ocalan, the Kurdish rebel leader arrested by Turkish agents on Monday, he is from Iraq, not Turkey. He says he is no supporter of Mr. Ocalan's Kurdistan Workers Party. 
 Such political divisions have long undermined the scattered Kurds in their battle for a homeland. But for an overwhelming majority of the estimated 850,000 Kurds now living in Europe, it is clear that Mr. Ocalan's arrest has constituted a moment when differences are swept away, however fleetingly, by a shared sense of outrage.
"The American Government says Ocalan is a terrorist," Mr. Aram said. "But my family was called terrorists by Saddam Hussein just because we are Kurds. Then he killed my mother, three brothers and two sisters in a chemical-weapons attack on the town of Halabja. Whatever group we are from, we cannot accept Ocalan's arrest."
Long focused on the problems arising from the fight for new nation-states in the Balkans, European governments have abruptly awakened this week to another conflict in their midst, one quietly fed over many years by a fast-growing Kurdish diaspora in Europe that this week displayed an ability to organize, communicate and act.
Even as Kurds ended a three-day occupation of the Greek Embassy in London today and protests in most places abated, tension remained high.
In Germany, where three Kurds were killed by Israeli security guards on Wednesday as they tried to enter Israel's consulate in Berlin, Kurdish protesters today hurled gasoline bombs through the windows of a Turkish cultural center in Heilbronn and attacked visitors with baseball bats. Three people were wounded.
Elsewhere, gasoline bombs were thrown at two Turkish travel agencies in Bremen, and Kurdish protesters forced their way into the regional United Nations headquarters in Vienna.
Conversations with Kurds in several European countries suggest that the broad show of defiance this week reflected developments likely to weigh on Europe for some time: the growing sophistication of Mr. Ocalan's movement, which has waged a separatist war in southeastern Turkey that has left 30,000 dead; anger stronger than any internal Kurdish differences, and the growth of a Kurdish population in Europe that had come to represent a large pool of restive national sentiment.
Magnus Ranstorp, an expert on Middle Eastern affairs at St. Andrew's University in Scotland, said, "The arrest of Ocalan has united the Kurdish nation."
"What European governments do not see is that in many ways the Kurdish struggle reflects the early days of the Palestinian struggle: putting an issue on the international agenda through terrorism," he said. "The situation could become more and more inflamed."
In Greece today, the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, the Interior and Public Order quit as public criticism raged over the country's role in the arrest of Mr. Ocalan. And Kenya, where Mr. Ocalan was seized after leaving the Greek Embassy in Nairobi, shuffled its Cabinet today.
The arrest followed several months of detention and flight in Italy, Russia, Greece and elsewhere -- a fugitive existence for Mr. Ocalan that, it now seems, provided a kind of slow-motion prologue to the current drama, fueling the Kurds' anger and sense of abandonment.
"I tried to warn Western governments this would happen," said Kendal Nezan, the chairman of the moderate Kurdish Institute of Paris, which opposes the guerrilla tactics of Mr. Ocalan's followers. "I said, give Ocalan asylum in exchange for a formal renunciation of violence. But the Italian Government told me there was too much diplomatic pressure from America and too much economic pressure from Turkey."
The United States has defined the Kurdistan Workers Party as a terrorist organization and in recent months has persistently expressed quiet support for Mr. Ocalan's arrest and his handover to Turkey, a crucial NATO ally and an important base for American air patrols over Iraq.
Mr. Nezan suggested that the effect of American policy, and European governments' acquiescence to it, had been to drive moderate Kurds toward sympathy for Mr. Ocalan's violent movement. Kurds, he added, had become convinced that the strategic importance of Turkey to the United States was such that no Kurdish claims would ever be recognized in Washington, let alone backed.
"Of the 850,000 Kurds in the European Union, probably 10 percent are in Mr. Ocalan's movement, and some are very militant," he said. "But a lot of people don't like his methods at all. Still, in the end they are led to feel sympathy because they are so revolted by Western policies."
Over 20 million Kurds live in an area that sprawls across southeastern Turkey, Syria, Iran and Iraq. Of those, perhaps 10 million live in Turkey, where they had been promised a homeland in the 1920 Treaty of Sevres after the fall of the Ottoman Empire. But plans for a Kurdish homeland were dashed when Mustafa Kemal Ataturk fought to regain the land.
In Turkey now, Kurds are not recognized as a minority, a status that would allow them to educate their children in their own language. A ban imposed by Turkey's last military Government on the use of the Kurdish language in unofficial settings was lifted in 1991, but Kurdish remains illegal in broadcast, educational or political settings, and there is a campaign under way to ban Turkey's main pro-Kurdish party.
Turks and Kurds have both committed atrocities in recent years as Turkey tries to eradicate any Kurdish drive for autonomy or independence.
Faced by the explosive complexity of recognizing any Kurdish claims, the frequent ruthlessness of Mr. Ocalan's methods and the importance of Turkey as a NATO ally, Western governments have generally preferred to look the other way, accepting Kurdish refugees as a bearable price.
Nowhere has that stream been more intense than in Germany, which has Europe's most liberal asylum laws. Indeed, with more than two million Turks now in the country, and about 500,000 Kurds, the potential for further violence here is evident.
Ciwan Bahoz, a member of the Kurdish Association for Culture and Mutual Support, said that like most Kurds in Germany, he rejected Mr. Ocalan's violent methods. But at the same time he felt enraged by the way Mr. Ocalan was treated.
"Although I reject force, I somehow understand what the protesters feel," he said. "Ocalan has been humiliated. Europe now has to understand that if it does not want Kurdish problems settled on its streets, it must see that its NATO partner, Turkey, complies with rules that govern any democratic country."
Like several other Kurds, Mr. Bahoz said it would have been far better if Germany had agreed to try Mr. Ocalan, because at least he would have been assured a fair trial. The German Government declined to request his extradition from Italy to face various charges because of fear of the potentially explosive domestic consequences.
German officials said that the influence of the Kurdistan Workers Party had clearly been growing and that many of the cultural and other associations in this country were merely fronts for the organization. Fund raising -- involving more or less subtle pressure on Kurdish stores and businesses -- was brisk and efficient, they said.
"The Workers Party was once quite marginal," said Barbara John, the Berlin commissioner for the affairs of foreigners. "But the various Kurdish associations have gradually been drawn toward it. I would not say the party is the mainstream, but it is now the undisputed representative of the fight for autonomy."
She added that by being extremely "naive" in its policies toward asylum seekers, and by failing to recognize that the admission of hundreds of thousands of Kurds would inevitably have consequences, Germany has now found itself in a very delicate situation where "the question of immigration and foreigners could become really poisonous."
Apparently aware of this danger of a backlash, Kurdish community leaders throughout Europe today appealed for calm. "We appeal to our compatriots to behave in a level-headed way," said a statement from the Kurdish community in Berlin.
It is clear, however, that if level-headedness was not conspicuous in recent days, it was not merely because of spontaneous anger. Faruk Sarhat, a Paris-based member of Mr. Ocalan's movement, said the party's central committee had the means to contact party cells and Kurdish cultural organizations throughout Europe.
"Our central committee said protests should be democratic, but Ocalan is more than our party," said Mr. Sarhat, who described himself as a member of the Kurdistan Workers Party although he formally represents a front organization called the Kurdistan National Liberation Front. "The kind of anger his arrest generated cannot be controlled, especially when the role of the Israelis and Americans was so clear."
Like many Kurds, Mr. Sarhat argued that Turkey did not have the resources to swoop on Mr. Ocalan and arrest him in the heart of Africa without assistance from other intelligence services.
Whatever the resources of Turkey, those of Kurdish groups in Europe are clearly considerable, including a Kurdish-language satellite television channel based in London that appears to have played an important role in spreading the word of Mr. Ocalan's arrest.
"The party is very active in the diaspora extracting money from Kurds," said Mr. Ranstorp, the expert on Middle Eastern affairs. "It is a sophisticated, organized guerrilla organization."
Evidence of Mr. Ocalan's personal influence was clear this week in the dramatic attempts at self-immolation of several protesters. Like Ho Chi Minh, of whom he is a great admirer, Mr. Ocalan likes to be called "Uncle" ("Apo" in Kurdish), and he often called his followers' attention to the Vietnamese use of immolation as a method of protest, Mr. Nezan said.
But at the time of his arrest, several Kurdish officials said, he appeared to have been casting around for some kind of political or diplomatic way out of the cycle of violence. Any possibility of this now appears to have been dashed, especially if Mr. Ocalan's trial in Turkey should end in a death sentence -- an explosive possibility for a Europe full of disgruntled Kurds.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed Kurdish guerrilla leader, began a third day of protest yesterday outside the Greek Embassy in London. (Associated Press)(pg. A12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); TURKEY (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BREMEN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: KURDISTAN WORKERS PARTY

ORGANIZATION: KURDISTAN WORKERS PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY; EUROPE (95%); TURKEY (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BREMEN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: KURDS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); POLITICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RIOTS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; OCALAN, ABDULLAH SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



423 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2249 words

HEADLINE: After Shooting, an Eroding Trust in the Police

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN and GINGER THOMPSON 

 BODY:
Amadou Diallo's bullet-riddled body is buried in West Africa, but the legacy of his death in a hail of police gunfire lives in New York.
It reminds Adrian Thomas, 20, a black construction worker walking his bulldog around the block in Bedford-Stuyvesant, why he feels safer at night passing the projects than the local police station house. "The best way to live is to stay out of their way," he said of the police. 
 It weighs on Herbert Reed, an African-American captain in the Department of Correction who says young people in his Bronx neighborhood view the police as "thugs with guns in blue uniforms." For Mr. Reed, his peace officer's shield has become a badge of shame.
And it baffles Brett Sonnenschein, a white graphic designer browsing in the "America" aisle at the Strand bookstore in Greenwich Village.
"It just confirms all your worst fears about the police," said Mr. Sonnenschein, 32, who grew up in Queens and now lives in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn, where he says he is comforted by the increased number of officers he sees while walking home late at night. "Is this the price that you pay for having less crime?"
Black people's fear of the police, and white people's struggle to understand it, is not a new story. But at the height of New York's renaissance, with crime lower than it has been in a generation, the Diallo shooting has become a new lens through which people view their relationships with the police.
In more than 100 interviews over four days, from the Riverdale Diner to the Staten Island Ferry, in an African-American bookstore in Jamaica and a bowling alley in Bay Ridge, at a Washington Heights coffee shop and a Fifth Avenue church, anger and fear mixed with sadness and suspicion as people drew links between the shooting and their own lives. Black people repeatedly offered a numb sense of "not again," while many white people sympathized but, inside, could never really imagine it happening to them.
Most of the people interviewed were outraged by the number of bullets, 41, sprayed at the unarmed black street peddler by four white officers. Many were distressed that a young immigrant with no criminal record could be killed in the vestibule of his own apartment building and that the officers have not been suspended or even questioned. Others, though, decried the rush to judgment before hearing officers' version of events, and said they sympathized with officers who face dangerous situations every day.
But in a sign of how much the fear of crime has diminished, few could justify the aggressive police tactics that they believe have become a hallmark of the New York Police Department.
After a decade in which the crime rate plummeted and the police ranks swelled, the response to the Diallo shooting shows a city of people with deep conflicts about their police.
Middle-class white Manhattanites, no longer very worried about their safety, are frustrated by the ever-growing force's vigilance on petty matters like leash violations. Young people of color in the outer boroughs, somewhat freed from fear of drive-by shootings, brim with tales of being patted down by undercover officers with their hands on their guns. More than a few African-Americans called the Police Department "an occupation force."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's staunch defense of the department was disdained even by Republican supporters, and the Rev. Al Sharpton's impassioned calls for justice were praised even by people who normally denounce him as a rabble-rouser. There was a diverse chorus calling for sensitivity training at the Police Academy and residency requirements that would make beat officers patrol neighborhoods similar to the ones in which they live.
"There is no mutual respect," said Russell Moorman, 32, a black investment consultant, whose 1-year-old son was baptized Sunday at the Riverside Church. "There is only fear from one side, us, and disdain from the other, them."
At the Strand on Saturday evening, Tal Strickland was standing in the Black Studies aisle, looking at "Beyond Racism," by Whitney M. Young. Mr. Strickland, a 57-year-old black man from Jamaica, Queens, said he had inhaled news about the shooting but had spoken about it to no one. As he talked, fury emerged in streams of sweat from under his baseball cap.
"The horror is these things just keep happening and piling up on each other," he said.
Mr. Strickland's first response to the Diallo shooting was to call his 22-year-old son, a student at Temple University who often drives on the New Jersey Turnpike, where state troopers fired 11 bullets into a van of minority college students on their way to a basketball clinic last year.
"It was knee-jerk; it wasn't even a thought," he said, recalling nights sitting up late sipping coffee with his wife, neither admitting to themselves or each other that they were waiting to hear his key in the lock.
Upstairs, checking out the Strand's sale rack, Louis Rogers, a 49-year-old white man who lives near the United Nations, described the shooting as an accident, a mistake, understandable because "an officer is only human."
"If an officer tells someone to stay still, freeze, and he makes a motion, what's a trained officer going to do?" Mr. Rogers asked. "Is he going to wait to be six feet under?"
He, too, thought of his son, who is 25, during the aftermath of the shooting, particularly as Mr. Diallo's mother spoke publicly about her loss.
"That lady said, 'This could have been your son,' " he recalled. "Well, the police officer could have been my son also."
 
Growing Accustomed To Confrontation
Among African-Americans, the experience of having unwarranted run-ins with the police seems universal. If it has not happened to them, it has happened to someone they know.
Talib Abdul-Hakeem, 23, said he had been frisked "plenty of times" by the police. Sometimes, he said, they stop him in front of the Jungle Boys Pet Store on 125th Street, which he owns.
"I have become so accustomed to it, I started to feel passive," he said. "I have been working hard since I was 11 years old, and it just doesn't seem to mean anything,"
Mr. Abdul-Hakeem, tall with boyish features, was born and raised in Harlem, and started working at pet stores as an adolescent. A year and a half ago, he opened his store in Harlem, because he wanted to contribute to the community's renewal.
When asked whether he had ever been robbed or mugged, Mr. Abdul-Hakeem smirked; the only times he has been harassed on the streets was by the police, he said, encounters that have left him feeling "disrespected."
Mr. Abdul-Hakeem said he appreciated that he and his business were safer, and he has tried to shrug off the run-ins as the officers' effort to do their job. But Mr. Diallo's death, he said, has shown him a dangerous dark side to aggressive law enforcement. The next time he is frisked, he plans to keep his mouth shut.
"After that guy got killed, I started feeling angry and afraid," he said. "I wondered how that could happen to an innocent man. It seems like they have begun to cross the line."
Few white people deny that this happens. But it often seems to be happening to someone else.
At the Church of the Heavenly Rest on the Upper East Side, a mostly white congregation sprinkled with mink coats and double strands of pearls, the shooting made Rosemarie Deane think of her black housekeeper, whose son, she said, was killed in a confrontation with the police several years ago. There was a dispute about whether he was armed, she said, but "the fact is, he's dead."
Kenneth Seeman Giniger, 80, said he used to walk his black maid to the bus so officers would not hassle her.
While they do not worry about ending up on the wrong side of a police pistol, these people, too, question the new aggressiveness they see in police officers when they are stopped.
"No feelings of humanness or anything else," said Warner Butterworth, 63, a white insurance salesman who was pulled over the other day for swerving in traffic near Columbia University. "It's by the book, no questions asked, guilty and you're going to pay your fine, goddamn it," he said. "These policemen get really pumped. They're not necessarily reaching for their pistol, but it's like they're going to get you, us versus them."
In churches, community meetings and the African-American Bookstore in Jamaica, questions about Mr. Diallo prompted thoughtful conversations among blacks about long-painful issues, including a continued sense of a lack of political and economic power, the expanding divide between well-off African-Americans and the poor, and fears that children may grow into a world reverting to a more segregated and violent era.
At the bookstore, bustling with business on Presidents' Day, numerous customers called the shooting "a lynching."
But just as many said that ranting about Mr. Diallo's death is not enough, and that if blacks really want change they must take their outrage to the polls.
Leonard Corley, 37, the owner of a gospel music store next door, talked about the civil rights marches of the 1960's. Those demonstrations, he said, opened the way for him to become a business owner and to live a comfortable life, so comfortable that he sometimes feels detached from the persistent problems of poor African-Americans.
But Mr. Diallo's killing, he said, is a distress signal too hard to ignore. Mr. Corley pointed out that Mr. Diallo was a hard-working man with a spotless record, a man a lot like himself.
"I know that as a black man, I am not safe," Mr. Corley said. "If I am driving and I pass a police car, I do not feel at ease. I feel apprehensive, especially if the police are white."
 
Being Careful To Avoid Trouble
The Riverdale Diner sits at the end of the Nos. 1 and 9 subway lines, near the crossroads of the highways that connect Manhattan and the Bronx, Westchester County and New Jersey.
At brunch on Monday, a group of middle-aged white people from Riverdale and Queens were withholding judgment until hearing the officers' side of the story, while a white Manhattan College professor at a table nearby denounced the shooting as "another example of blatant racism in the N.Y.P.D."
Eating waffles in one of the diner's window booths, Akila Hanna of Bedford-Stuyvesant and Ogun Om of Universal Heights in the Bronx, both African-Americans, said they felt the increased police presence more than the dropping crime. Gunshots still ring through the night, Ms. Hanna said, while she recently witnessed officers using handcuffs and physical force to stop a neighborhood woman jumping a turnstile.
At 50, Mr. Om said he still gets stopped and frisked. Ms. Hanna, 43, warns her 12-year-old son not to run when he is outside, for fear the police will think he is running from them.
"I don't let him go to the store by himself," she said. "I'm telling him to go against his nature, don't be an adolescent. He's not entitled to that because it might cost him his life."
Veronica Clough, a 41-year-old white woman who lives in Washington Heights, sees things differently. She knows that the police stereotype people based on race -- officers stop her often in the predominantly Dominican community as a suspected drug buyer. But she credits the same officers with saving her neighborhood.
"There's days I get stopped and hassled for ID because I'm white," she said. "Then, the other day, this kid cut me off and there was an undercover cop right there who got him. That made my day."
At the Rincon Cibaeno, a coffee shop in Ms. Clough's neighborhood, the change has trickled inside. Just a few years ago, counter talk was about robberies and shootings, said the owner, Rafael Consencion; now, it is more often about residents' run-ins with the police.
"The respect that people used to feel for the police is turning to fear," he said. "It seems that when the police come to talk to you, it is usually because they want to trap you, not because they want to help."
For Moses Mora, 35, a construction worker from the Bronx, the Diallo shooting reminds him of his homeland, the Dominican Republic. "We come from countries where people are accustomed to abuse by police and there are no laws to protect us," he said. "Here we have laws to protect us, but we do not know our rights, or we are afraid to demand our rights, or we have no money to demand our rights. The police abuse us because of that."
At Mark Lanes in Bay Ridge, a family-oriented bowling center, Tom Bancroft talked in between turns as he tossed five strikes in a row.
A white Republican who voted for Mayor Giuliani, Mr. Bancroft, 40, described the shooting as "vulgar" and said he was disappointed by the administration's "unrepentant" support of the officers. He also surprised himself by nodding along with Mr. Sharpton last week, and echoed the call from black and Latino leaders for officers to live in the city -- even the borough -- where they work.
"It used to be that way in New York -- the Irish beat cop that lives there," he noted. "Where's the black cop who lives there?"
Heading home on the 5 P.M. ferry from New York to Staten Island, several riders said that while Mr. Diallo's death was tragic, they refused to see it as a racist attack.
Leonora Batten clings to the hope that the shooting was, somehow, justified.
"I would rather believe this was a tragic mistake, than to think that the officers shot him because of his race," she said. "I don't want to believe that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Talib Abdul-Hakeem, Pet store owner -- "I wondered how that could happen to an innocent man. It seems like they have begun to cross the line." (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Warner Butterworth, Insurance salesman -- "These policemen get really pumped. They're not necessarily reaching for their pistol, but it's like they're going to get you, us versus them." (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (90%); AFRICA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (90%); AFRICA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; PUBLIC OPINION; BLACKS FIREARMS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); BOOKSTORES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MISCONDUCT (63%); FERRIES (63%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%); 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI; THOMPSON, GINGER; DIALLO, AMADOU AMADOU DIALLO (81%); TAL STRICKLAND (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



424 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
State Hopes to Turn Route 17 Into Interstate

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: ALBANY

 BODY:
New York has applied to the Federal Highway Administration to designate a stretch of Route 17 as an interstate highway. 
 The application is part of the state's plan to transform Route 17 into Interstate 86, officials said yesterday. Route 17 stretches for 381 miles between Harriman and the Pennsylvania border in western New York. State officials said they hope that designating the road an interstate will spur economic development and tourism in the struggling Southern Tier. The application applies to a 177-mile stretch of Route 17 that runs from the Pennsylvania line to East Corning. Plans for the additional 204 miles of Route 17 in eastern New York are still being developed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of New York State showing route of the proposed new interstate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (91%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (91%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



425 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Out From Under the Nation's Shadow;
The Hot Subject Today Is the Culture of Regions (Regions? What Regions?)

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
Academic centers are popping up everywhere to bore into the soul of the Southwest and the Great Plains, the South and New England. As if they were cataloguing newly discovered planets, scholars are busily cobbling together vast compendiums, modeled after "The Encyclopedia of Southern Culture," on the nation's regions and cities.
The study of regional culture and politics, folkways and eccentricities, long dismissed as the minor leagues of academic scholarship, is fashionable at American universities as it has not been since at least the 1930's. 
 Still, amid the celebration of regional distinctiveness, a nagging question persists: are there still distinctive regions to celebrate?
Many scholars, certainly those involved in regional studies, argue that regional differences persist -- may even be accelerating -- despite a commercial landscape of McDonalds, Starbucks, Walmart and the Gap that can look the same whether in Boston, Baltimore, Boise or Birmingham.
But the focus on regions is also part of a larger discussion about the nature of culture and how regional differences persist in the face of all the broader forces increasingly pushing toward a homogeneous national culture.
"My colleague George Tindall says it's the cultural equivalent of your life passing before you as you drown in the mainstream," said John Shelton Reed, a sociologist and expert on the South at the University of North Carolina, referring to the eminent Southern historian. "But it's not that simple. I don't think massification and globalization and all those other 'izations' are necessarily hostile to regionalism."
In fact, American history began as regional history told by Virginians or Bostonians, but it was soon supplanted by a national narrative, if one dominated by a New England perspective. In the 1930's, as the age of mass society dawned, sociologists and geographers began to focus again on regional differences -- in literature, politics, folkways and art. But that interest soon faded, as national issues again became pre-eminent, and since the 1950's the study of specific regions has had about the same cachet in academia as a small-town mayor does compared with a United States Senator.
"Provincial, antiquarian backwaters. Unanalytical. Unreflective. Nostalgic. That's pretty much what you heard," said Patricia Limerick Nelson, a historian and chairwoman of the board of the Center of the American West at the University of Colorado at Boulder. "It was very uncool."
But just as the dominant cultural cliche came to be that regional differences were disappearing into the great national strip mall, the study of regions suddenly became hot. Most regional programs are aggressively interdisciplinary, as likely to study desert cactus as Navajo poetry or New England immigration patterns or Revolutionary War history.
One of the first regional study institutions was the Center for Great Plains Studies at the University of Nebraska, which opened in 1976. Since then there has been a proliferation: there is the Appalachian Regional Studies Center at Radford University in Virginia and the Center for Appalachian Studies and Services at East Tennessee State University. There is the Center for the Study of the Southwest at Southwest Texas State University and the Southwest Center at the University of Arizona.
There is the Center for the Study of Southern Culture at the University of Mississippi and the Institute for Southern Studies at the University of South Carolina. And there is the Center of the American West at the University of Colorado at Boulder and the New England studies program at the University of Southern Maine.
In 1989, the Center for the Study of Southern Culture made a big splash with its "Encyclopedia of Southern Culture" (University of North Carolina Press). Since then similar volumes have been begun or completed for the West, the Midwest, New England, Appalachia and the Great Plains as well as various cities. In New York alone, the last few years have seen the publication of "The Encyclopedia of New York City" (Yale University Press, 1995) and "Gotham" (Oxford University Press, 1998), a history of New York that in 1,383 pages gets only to the year 1898.
A further push has come from William R. Ferris, who for 18 years presided over the Center for the Study of Southern Culture and was the co-editor of the Southern encyclopedia. Considered a godfather of regional studies, he is now the chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities. Not surprisingly, his most cherished proposal calls for establishing 10 regional centers around the country to support projects in fields as diverse as folklore, law, medicine, historic preservation, the environment and education.
"Yes, we have interstates and national television programming, and we all watch the same 'Seinfeld' and see the same evening news," said Mr. Ferris. "But when we sit at the dinner table, we hear a very different voice that's rooted in the home and the community in which we live. It's the most powerful anchor of who we are as Americans, and ironically that's the world we have failed to study and understand."
Mr. Ferris also cites the economic importance of cultural tourism as one reason to study and celebrate the music of the South or the cowboy culture of the West.
Still, for some scholars this is an odd time to adopt regionalism as a primary lens for viewing American life.
"There are still important regional differences in this country," said Mark Crispin Miller, who teaches media studies at New York University, "but it's also true that those differences have been eroded greatly by the media and the consumer culture. So this study can be valuable as long as it addresses the actual plight of regional distinctiveness. If it just concentrates on these cultural differences it can become a kind of nostalgia, a bookish exercise in looking back at what is now disappearing."
But many scholars like Mr. Ferris say that the rise of a mass culture, rather than diluting regionalism, has made people much more anxious to acknowledge and preserve the alternatives to carbon-copy franchise culture.
Lawrence Levine, who teaches history at George Mason University, does not argue that regionalism is as vital a factor in American life as it once was. But he says it remains a compelling force and an important counterweight to the popular notion that the country is more divided than it used to be. "There are all these people today screaming about fragmentation as if the country was once a unified place and now there are all these competing ethnic groups," he said. "America was never a unified place. It was always divided by ethnicity, by region, by geography, by economics."
Skeptics say regional studies programs can become mere conservators of fading cultural eccentricities, the blues in the South, the whaling industry in New England, the Indian culture of the Southwest.
But Joseph Wilder, director of the Southwest Center at the University of Arizona and editor of the Journal of the Southwest, said it was precisely the urge to turn regional culture into a comfortable commodity that makes serious study and analysis so important now.
"The nouveau riche can move to Santa Fe, but no matter how many Southwestern trinkets they bestow upon themselves or how they decorate their fake adobe with other people's religious artifacts, they're not really touching the indigenous reality," he said. "We're not here to celebrate quaint indigenous customs. Our job, in part, is to make sense of the dynamic of change and to make sure that important knowledge, other narratives and stories which are threatened by mass culture, aren't lost forever."
In the end, it may be that one's image of a region's culture is as important as the substance. Thus, said Burt Feintuch, a professor of folklore and English at the University of New Hampshire and the editor of the Encyclopedia of New England Culture, due out later this year, the landscape of New England has over time been made to look more like an imagined New England than it ever was in the past.
"We take the approach that regionalism is a state of mind and that regional identity remains every bit as strong as it ever has been," he said.
Of course, not everyone is willing to go that far. Instead, they say, the way to view regionalism is as a counterweight to the prevailing pull of mass culture, producing a blend of distinctive regional cultures and homogenous mass ones.
"There's something unsatisfying about the formulation that regionalism is as powerful as it ever was," said Jackson Lears, a history professor at Rutgers University. "It denies the real power of corporations to reshape culture.
"You can't say there's now a force that steamrollers everything in its way. But you can't say nothing has changed, either. That ignores and trivializes the impact of this enormously concentrated power of big corporations and the corporate media to disseminate ideas."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Culture shock: A McDonald's stands out in Amish country. (Rick McKay/COX)(pg. B9); William R. Ferris, chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities. (Bruce Newman)(pg. B7)
 
Drawing (Elliot Park)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CULTURE HISTORY (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (79%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TRENDS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); GEOGRAPHY (71%); POETRY (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



426 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Jinxiang Journal;
They Don't Sell Bridges. Tunnels, Yes.

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: JINXIANG, China

 BODY:
From this remote coastal town ringed with barren hills, Chen Jiashu's influence spreads all over the world.
He lends authority to police officers on the streets of New York and to United Nations peacekeepers in Macedonia's hills. His presence is felt every time a Ghanaian customs inspector frisks a suspected smuggler or an American bail enforcement officer tracks down a criminal who has skipped town. 
 In Hong Kong, Chinese troops give testament to his skill. And all across America's heartland, Lions Club members hold his work close to their hearts.
Mr. Chen, 46, is the owner of China's biggest manufacturer of badges and pins, a world leader in the field.
"In recent years," he said, flipping through books displaying his products, "we've been making insignia for Ford, badges for the U.S. police forces, emblems for the U.N. forces and, I'm pretty sure, for the U.S. military too. Though I'm not really sure which is which, of course, since I can't read any of them."
Ever since Deng Xiaoping opened China's markets 20 years ago, people in this and other rural towns around the city of Wenzhou have been transforming themselves from the poorest of farmers into the country's ultimate capitalists, with a strong libertarian bent.
Renowned for their aggressive entrepreneurial skills, Wenzhou business people like Mr. Chen have spent the last five years plowing money not only into their private factories and homes but also into roads, bridges -- even the city's first train station.
In the world's largest Communist country, they have created a free-market paradise.
In the Wenzhou region, an isolated swath along the coast of Zhejiang Province, there are few state-owned enterprises. In fact, there are few truly public works at all. Even parks, highways and tunnels are often privately financed. Here, almost every family has a factory and every town a product.
The road north out of Wenzhou, the only real metropolis in the region, winds through a succession of farming hamlets with three-story concrete homes whose dirt yards double as storerooms for the local product: playground equipment, stone lions to flank doorways, huge sanded logs. Jinxiang, Mr. Chen's hometown, makes badges.
As Lin Xiuheng put it, "This area used to be a blank, and now we are filling it in." Mr. Lin is deputy magistrate of Cangnan County, which includes Jinxiang. "Our living standards have increased dramatically," he added. "All over China you'll find people from here doing business."
Until three years ago, travelers on the Beijing-to-Guangzhou highway had to make a time-consuming detour around the broad base of Zhoufeng Mountain, 20 miles south of Wenzhou. Then Zhang Licheng, a local farmer-turned-entrepreneur, offered to blast a three-mile-long tunnel through the mountain -- if the local government allowed him to charge people for using it for the next 15 years.
Today his tollbooths and uniformed toll collectors guard the tunnel, and every car, no matter how well connected its occupants, pays him $1.25.
"It doesn't matter if you're from the government or not -- you pay," a young collector told the grumbling driver of an official black Audi who had tried to wave himself through with his official pass.
Although Communist Party hard-liners until the 1990's criticized the "Wenzhou model" relentlessly, since then they have offered occasional praise, or at least left the region alone. And these days, with much of the country suffering from layoffs and worker discontent, party loyalists are unlikely to tinker with a region whose economic growth exceeds 10 percent.
In a sense, the Wenzhou people had no choice but to rely on the market, since nature and history gave them little else to work with. This densely populated region is surrounded, on three sides by mountains and one by sea. Only 16 percent of the land is arable.
To make matters worse, the central Government has made few capital investments in the area, which because of its location was deemed a likely casualty in any conflict with Taiwan.
To survive, the people here seized every opportunity that legally came their way -- and then some. Here in Jinxiang, selling crude homemade pins and badges had long provided a supplemental income to farmers. During the 1966-'76 Cultural Revolution, when private business was strictly forbidden, they sold Mao pins to the Red Guards.
It seemed only natural for Mr. Chen to start a badge factory when he was discharged from the army in 1980.
At first he joined the legions from the region who fanned out across China on ramshackle ferries and long-distance buses to sell local products. At a time when a strict system of residence permits forced Chinese to work in or near their hometowns, 8 percent of Wenzhou people were living outside the area.
"A great deal of hard work and suffering went into building all these large houses we've seen go up here in the last few years," Mr. Chen said, sitting behind a vast desk in his marble-floored office. "I would often have to stand on a train for two or three days and would eat nothing but rice for a week."
These traveling peddlers gave the region a head start on the rest of China, which did not move vigorously toward the market for another 5 to 10 years. "We very quickly set up a national network of distribution and sales," said Mr. Lin, the county deputy magistrate, adding, "Since there were many shortages in those days, we were able to identify niches that we could exploit."
In recent years, enterprises like Mr. Chen's have grown and become more sophisticated. As restrictions on travel and private business have eased, Mr. Chen's once small workshop has become a large factory with the latest European machines, operated by migrant workers. The army of traveling salespeople has given way to elegant representative offices catering to international clients in Shanghai and Beijing.
Mr. Chen's life has changed as well. On a dusty plot in the middle of Jinxiang's four-story apartment blocks, Mr. Chen is now building a modern mansion. He has an apartment in Shanghai, 250 miles north, which he uses for his frequent business trips, and last year he sent his 13-year-old daughter away to private school in Wenzhou. Ninety percent of people in the Wenzhou area own their homes.
Of course, many in the town still work on a smaller scale, like Feng Ziyuan, 43, whose family runs a badge stall and workshop on a tangled street lined with dozens of identical storefronts in the old part of town. Mr. Feng and eight family members sell mostly to people from nearby villages -- making nameplates for furniture, school insignia, that sort of thing.
"Why badges?" Mr. Feng said. "Well, we didn't know any other trade."
More than 90 percent of the people in the Wenzhou region have now left the land -- although many are still officially classified as farmers. And that means they still have to hand over to the Government a yearly grain quota.
No problem. The free-market solution: Since owning factories is far more profitable than farming, a number of residents pay farmers from poorer provinces to till their fields.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chen Jiashu says many American officials wear his badges, "though I'm not really sure which is which, of course, since I can't read any of them." (Elisabeth Rosenthal/The New York Times)
 
Map of China shows location of Jinxiang: In Jinxiang, it seems, the merchant in people just can't be repressed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%); EAST CHINA (77%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (72%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; JINXIANG (CHINA); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%); EAST CHINA (77%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BADGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PEACEKEEPING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (86%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (85%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); SMUGGLING (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%); LIVING STANDARDS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH; CHEN JIASHU DENG XIAOPING (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



427 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
A High Number of Rifts Await the Group of 7

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Feb. 19

 BODY:
As finance ministers from the Group of Seven industrialized countries prepare to meet in Bonn on Saturday, Europe is far less united than its new single currency, the euro, would indicate.
The United States is bracing for disagreements with Germany and France, which are campaigning for a "new architecture" to control exchange rates and reduce turbulence in world financial markets. 
 But European countries disagree among themselves about those issues, and the new European Central Bank is dead set against the French and German proposals.
"Europe is not even close to having a united front, and if they were, they wouldn't get anywhere," said Klaus Friedrich, chief economist at Dresdner Bank in Frankfurt.
Germany's new left-leaning Minister of Finance, Oskar Lafontaine, is expected to push hard on Saturday for new proposals to regulate exchange rates among the United States, Japan and the 11 countries using the new single currency.
President Jacques Chirac of France expressed similar ideas in Washington on Thursday, when he called for a new "highway code" to govern capital markets.
Those ideas are anathema to the United States Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, who has repeatedly dismissed attempts to manage exchange rates as unworkable.
But they also face heavy opposition at home. On top of that, European financial influence remains limited. Economic growth in Europe has slowed while American growth has defied predictions and surged once again.
Indeed, the new euro has weakened steadily against the dollar. Since its start on Jan. 1, the euro has slipped more than 5 percent against the dollar, from $1.17 to $1.1068. The extent of the slide has surprised many experts as well as officials in the European Central Bank, but it reflects the economic weakness.
Just today, Germany's central bank estimated that the German economy contracted by four-tenths of a percent in the last quarter of 1998 from the prior quarter, largely because renewed financial turmoil in Asia and Latin America severely hurt German exports. But for all of 1998 the economy grew by 2.6 percent, up from 2.3 percent in 1997.
France reported today that industrial production fell 1.6 percent in December, more than expected and the largest drop since November 1997, when output fell 1.8 percent.
Worries about a further slowdown have complicated the arguments about trying to stabilize exchange rates.
Officials at the European Central Bank adamantly argue that trying to coordinate exchange rates will play havoc with normal economic policy. Such attempts would inherently clash with the bank's primary responsibility to preserve price stability, they argue. In addition, they warn, it could force the bank into perverse decisions.
"If we stabilized exchange rates, we would end up with interest rate swings, and those are even more damaging than exchange rate swings for investment activities and the credibility of monetary policy," said Sirrka Hamalainen, the Finnish member of the board of the European Central Bank, in a German newspaper interview published today.
If the European economy slows more than it has already, she said, the Central Bank might have to raise interest rates to support the euro's value -- a move that would slow the economy even more.
But European finance ministers are also divided over basic monetary policy. Mr. Lafontaine has loudly pressed the Central Bank to lower interest rates, attending a board meeting on Thursday to argue that the European economy needs the lift that cheaper money would provide.
Those efforts failed to budge the bank, and they appear to have irked some of Europe's other finance ministers. "To have that debate externally is useless -- it causes the E.C.B. to stick to its position and close itself off," said Jean-Jacques Viseur, the Finance Minister of Belgium, in an interview with the Belgian newspaper De Morgan. Gerritt Zalm, the Finance Minister of the Netherlands, said that Mr. Lafontaine should soften up as well.
Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the Bank of France, argued today that the European economy does not need to be rescued. "We have a situation that appears to be under control," he said. "We are not worried about the risk of inflation, and we're not worried about the risk of deflation either."
Some economists say that the policy divisions mirror economic disparities within Europe. The German and Italian economies have both slowed sharply in the last few months, and most economists predict that unemployment will remain above 10 percent in both countries.
But France appears to be growing a bit more rapidly, and smaller countries are doing even better. The Netherlands, Finland, Spain, Portugal and Ireland are all growing much more robustly, despite the problems roiling Asia and Latin America.
"What we are seeing is a prime example of how divergences in the real economy are making it difficult to speak with a single economic voice," said Thomas Mayer, senior economist at Goldman, Sachs in Frankfurt. "Fifty percent of Euro-land's gross domestic product is in trouble. Obviously, Mr. Lafontaine is the voice for this trouble. His comments reflect the anxiety that many Germans have."
But Mr. Lafontaine's campaign to tame the world's markets also springs from deep convictions. A garrulous and pugnacious politician, Mr. Lafontaine has argued for years that Germany's high unemployment stems in large part from the high value of the German mark and tight-fisted, orthodox monetary policies.
That has placed him at odds with most economists and virtually all of Europe's central bankers, who say that European unemployment stems largely from rigid regulations and the high cost of wages and benefits.
At times, Mr. Lafontaine has seemed more interested in stoking a debate against economic orthodoxy than in actually winning arguments.
He almost certainly knew he had no chance of persuading the European Central Bank to lower interest rates by attending the bank's board meeting on Thursday. Conventional wisdom holds that overt attempts to put pressure on central bankers simply push them in the opposite direction.
Yet he went ahead anyway, and even ratcheted up the debate by dismissing the Central Bank's criticism that German budget policies were too lax.
"Lafontaine is a politician with convictions, and he believes that the market is a wild animal, a beast that you have to control," remarked Gerhard Grebe, an economist at Bank Julius Baer in Frankfurt.
In campaigning for a new system to restrain the movement of the world's major currencies within "target zones" or practicing other forms of "coordination," the German Finance Minister does have support from France and Japan.
But in the United States, both Mr. Rubin and Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, flatly reject such ideas. Mr. Rubin contended this week that the only real way to insure stability was for all countries to have sound fundamental economic policies.
The finance ministers, meanwhile, will spend much of Saturday discussing proposals by Hans Tietmeyer, president of the German Bundesbank, to strengthen supervision of global financial markets. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (73%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); BONN, GERMANY (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); TRENDS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L JACQUES CHIRAC (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



428 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Shares Retreat at End of Day, but Gauges Finish Higher

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stock indexes ended the day higher yesterday but pulled back from substantial gains in the final 15 minutes of trading after President Clinton reiterated that Serbian leaders would be "held accountable" if peace talks on Kosovo collapsed and a NATO bombing campaign was needed there.
The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 41.32 points, at 9,339.95, but a 97-point gain at 3:45 P.M. had dwindled to nothing before the market picked up again in the closing minutes. 
 The Nasdaq composite index gained 23.05 at 2,283.60, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 1.94, to 1,239.22.
In a news conference shortly before the close of trading, Mr. Clinton said United States military planes were ready to assist NATO troops in Kosovo if the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, failed to reach a peace agreement with ethnic Albanian rebels by a deadline of 6 A.M. today.
Aside from the flurry of last-minute activity, the stock market was quiet and stable, with the Dow industrials ahead for most of the session as technology shares marked their second day of recovery.
Hugh Johnson, a market strategist at the First Albany Corporation, said the market lacked direction. So-called defensive stocks like soft drink and drug shares, which tend to do well during a recession, gained. But so did manufacturing stocks like autos and chemicals, which are vulnerable to an economic downturn. Financial services stocks rose, despite a small decline in bond prices.
"Some event is going to have to come along and turn the fence sitters into buyers and sellers," Mr. Johnson said. "It could be anything" from a negative event, such as a further rise in interest rates, to positive economic developments in Japan and throughout Asia.
"We've seen a lot of activity over there, and that could improve the prospect of economic recovery," Mr. Johnson said. That could lift the shares of United States companies that do business there, he added.
Meanwhile, technology stocks, which have been battered in recent weeks, rose for the second consecutive day. The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index gained 15 percent in January, but most of those gains were lost in a steep selloff of technology shares this month. The Nasdaq is now up only 4 percent for the year.
Fueling yesterday's gains was a prediction by Harry Blodget, an analyst with CIBC Oppenheimer, that Internet stocks would hit new highs this year. Among the stocks he thought would do especially well were Amazon.com and Yahoo.
There was little reaction in the market yesterday to a tame inflation report from the Labor Department, which showed consumer prices rising just a tenth of 1 percent in January. The smaller-than-expected report failed to calm investors' fears that the Federal Reserve would soon raise interest rates to cool the United States economy.
Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a narrow margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume amounted to an anemic 700.03 million shares, down from Thursday's pace.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Slip
By Bloomberg News
United States bond prices ended slightly lower after Government reports reinforced expectations for strong growth and tame inflation, giving investors scant incentive to buy Treasury securities.
"I don't see any reason to rush into the market," said Patrick Retzer, who helps oversee $4 billion at Heartland Advisors Inc. in Milwaukee.
The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond slipped 3/32 , to 98 1/32 . The yield was 5.38 percent, unchanged from Thursday.
For the week, bonds rose 22/32 , a winning week in an otherwise bad month for bonds. Investors who bought 30-year Treasuries at the start of February are now sitting on a loss of 3.9 percent. The declines came as a series of reports pointed to resilience in the United States economy, dousing expectations for a Federal Reserve interest rate cut.
The smaller-than-expected trade gap "will mean a revision upward" of growth in the fourth quarter from the 5.6 percent annual rate initially reported, said Tony Crescenzi, head of Government bond trading at Miller Tabak Hirsch & Company.
That reduces expectations for slower growth and even raises the possibility of a Fed rate increase later this year, analysts said. The Government will release its first revision to fourth-quarter growth on Feb. 26.
Even so, inflation remains tame.
"Inflation is very well in check and it looks very good going forward," said Bryan Jordan, an economist at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since February 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (68%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ALBANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GLEACHER & CO INC (68%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%); CIBC OPPENHEIMER (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ALBANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); INTEREST RATES (63%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



429 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Harry Holiday Jr., 75, Former Chief of Armco

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

 BODY:
Harry Holiday Jr., a former chief executive of the steelmaker Armco Inc. and a world champion swimmer, died on Tuesday in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 75 and lived in Village of Golf, Fla., and Highlands, N.C.
The cause was a heart attack, Terry B. Adamson, his son-in-law, said. 
 Mr. Holiday, who was known for his optimistic determination, helped lead the steel industry through the boom of the 1960's and the troubled times that followed in the 1970's and 80's. He frequently called on the Federal Government to insure that steel imports were legal, and, facing an economic downturn in the 1970's, pushed Armco to diversify.
"Harry was a first-class manager," said Nicholas F. Brady, a former Treasury Secretary. "He ran Armco at an extraordinary time when the company needed to diversify. Most of the people in the company believed that steel was their business. But Harry had the vision to know that some changes had to be made."
The future for Mr. Holiday, who was born in Butler, Pa., seemed almost predestined. His father was the plant manager at Armco's Ford Steel Wheel Company in Butler.
He graduated from the University of Michigan and served as an officer in the Army ordnance corps.
Mr. Holiday joined Armco as an assistant metallurgist in the company's Middletown, Ohio, plant. In the next 36 years, he worked his way through the executive ranks, becoming president of Armco in 1974 and chief executive five years later. Mr. Holiday retired from the company in 1985.
In addition to Mr. Holiday's business accomplishments, he was one of the world's best swimmers in the backstroke. During the 1940's, he set 7 world records, 18 American records and won 6 National Collegiate Athletic Association swimming championships.
In the 1944 national amateur championships at the New York Athletic Club, Mr. Holiday, who was 6 foot 5, became the first swimmer to beat Adolf Kiefer, generally regarded as the best in the backstroke up to that time. Mr. Holiday was named to the 1944 Olympic team, but the games were canceled because of World War II.
The war may have robbed Mr. Holiday of an Olympic gold medal and a place as an American legend. Johnny Weismuller, who won five Olympic gold medals in the 1920's, and Buster Crabbe, an Olympic champion in 1932, became household names after their victories. Mr. Holiday was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame in 1991.
He is survived by his wife of 51 years, Kay Watson Holiday; a brother, Matt, of Tucson, Ariz.; a daughter, Edith E., of Washington; two sons, Harry 3d, of King of Prussia, Pa., and Albert, of Middletown, Ohio, and five grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry Holiday Jr.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: AS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ATHLETIC CLUB INC (53%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); SWIMMING (89%); SPORTS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (55%); 

PERSON: HOLIDAY, HARRY JR; MORROW, DAVID J KAY WATSON HOLIDAY (95%); HARRY HOLIDAY JR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



430 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: President Says First Lady Should Not Rush on Senate Bid

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19

 BODY:
President Clinton tried today to let a little air out of the speculative bubble over Hillary Rodham Clinton's political future.
In response to a question at a brief news conference with President Jacques Chirac of France, Mr. Clinton said this afternoon that the election for a United States Senate seat in New York was still 21 months away and that he had advised Mrs. Clinton not to rush a decision. 
 New York Democrats and supporters around the country have urged Mrs. Clinton to seek the seat being vacated by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan next year. The First Lady has said she is seriously considering entering the race but has been cagey about the timing of her decision. On Tuesday, she said she would reach a decision "later this year."
The President said that he would strongly support whatever choice his wife made and that he would do all he could to aid her campaign if she decided to run -- "just as she's helped me for the last 20-plus years."
But the President cautioned: "It's important to remember this is an election which occurs in November of 2000, and she has just been through a very exhausting year. And there are circumstances which have to be considered, and I think some time needs to be taken here."
Mr. Clinton was referring obliquely to a year of scandal and an impeachment trial prompted by his extramarital affair with Monica S. Lewinsky. He did not specify the "circumstances" he cited, but associates say they include not only the usual political and fund-raising challenges, but also the continuing strains in the Clinton family.
The President, who has won and lost a few political campaigns himself, showed an insider's knowledge of the tools of electoral politics and stand-up comedy. Timing and suspense are everything, he said.
"Even in a Presidential race," Mr. Clinton said, "it's hard to keep a kettle of water boiling for almost two years."
Mr. Clinton, who appeared a bit amused and bewildered by the sudden flurry of interest in his wife's political prospects, said the talk about the New York Senate race was premature. He urged everyone to take a deep breath.
"I would like to see her take -- and my advice has been -- to take some time, get some rest, listen to people on both sides of the argument and decide exactly what you think is right to do," the President said. "And then whatever she decides, I'll be for."
The First Lady continued her methodical research in preparation for her decision, receiving a 90-minute tutorial today from Senator Moynihan on the intricacies of New York politics. Mr. Moynihan, who has served four terms in the Senate, brought detailed demographic and voting data on the state, dating back more than two decades, to his meeting with Mrs. Clinton in the White House residence.
Speaking to reporters afterward, Mr. Moynihan said New York voting patterns "are more complex than you might think." The state has a large Democratic core in New York City, but the city's suburbs and the upstate region are heavily Republican.
Although Mrs. Clinton's prospects look good, Mr. Moynihan said, "New York is a big demographic problem."
He said he did not advise her one way or the other, but said that if she ran, "of course I'd support her."
President and Mrs. Clinton have not had particularly close relations with Mr. Moynihan, a fiercely independent and at times cranky figure. Mr. Moynihan felt slighted by the Clintons when they arrived in Washington six years ago and failed to seek his counsel on the ways of the capital.
Mrs. Clinton expressed irritation about Mr. Moynihan to associates early in the President's first term, saying she believed that Mr. Moynihan had contributed to the demise of her complex health care plan in 1993 and 1994 by not vocally supporting it.
Marsha Berry, the First Lady's press secretary, said today's meeting was an opportunity to exchange ideas about the Senate race. "She certainly respects him, and his thoughts are important to her," Ms. Berry said.
But she said that Mrs. Clinton's intelligence-gathering operation would continue for some time, and that a decision could be months away.
"This is going to be like watching grass grow," she said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan after a meeting yesterday with Hillary Rodham Clinton, who might run for the seat he will vacate next year. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) NEW YORK SENATE (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NEW YORK SENATE (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); IMPEACHMENT (74%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); JACQUES CHIRAC (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



431 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Subway and Bus Rides Up by a Million a Day

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE 

 BODY:
Subway and bus ridership increased by more than a million rides a day during 1998, a trend that started five years ago, transit officials said yesterday.
The increase, the highest in three decades, was fueled by discounts in fares and by better service, said Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
 "We're now starting to reap the benefits of our capital plans," he said.
Subways and buses had an average of 6.2 million rides a day in December 1998, compared with 5.2 million rides a day in 1997, Mr. Kelly said.
Some experts said the increase in ridership was a result of the city's economic good times. The stronger the economy, the more people ride the subways and buses to work.
But transit officials said that discounted passes were largely responsible for the steep jump in ridership. The average rider has saved about $700 a year since New York City Transit eliminated a two-fare system for people transferring from subways to buses in July 1997, officials said.
They also said that cleaner and more reliable trains had lured riders back.
Last September, transit officials, anticipating the surge in ridership, spent $50 million to buy subway cars and buses and to keep the subways clean. Transit officials have bought more than 1,000 subway cars and added 200 extra trips on lines like the A, F and No. 7.
Riders interviewed yesterday said they were satisfied with the quality of service and the discounts that have been in place for the last two years.
"It's a tremendous resurgence for the subways and buses, which have come from the abyss of the 1970's to the 1980's to this unbelievable comeback," said Joseph G. Rappaport, coordinator of the Straphangers Campaign, a riders advocacy group.
After steady neglect, the city's subways reached a breaking point in 1980. Subway cars broke down frequently and graffiti covered trains and stations.
Then officials began pouring millions of dollars into the system, cleaning trains and buying new equipment.
These days, breakdowns are rare, subway cars are almost free of graffiti and frequent, widespread disruptions seem to be a thing of the past.
"Clearly the cars are much cleaner," said Kristen Michael, 25, of Brooklyn Heights, who was riding the No. 2 train. "There were bottles, newspapers and all sort of debris. And look around -- it's not bad." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PIERRE, SD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PIERRE, SD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; BUSES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CITIES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); 

PERSON: PIERRE-PIERRE, GARRY MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



432 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: DEADLINE IN THE BALKANS: THE DIPLOMACY;
Serbs Yield No Ground; Envoys Seem Resigned

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 19

 BODY:
As the Kosovo peace talks neared a fever pitch todat, the Clinton Administration seemed resigned to not having a peace settlement by the deadline of noon Saturday.
"My assessment is that there is no reason to think we will get an agreement tomorrow," a senior Administration official said today, adding that there was "no evidence the Serbs have moved on the main poiints." 
 While officials are hopeful that the ethnic Albanian delegation will sign a peace settlement, the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, remained publicly defiant, sending no signals that he was willing to bend on the settlement. In fact, in a display of brinkmanship Mr. Milosevic refused to see the chief American negotiator, Christopher R. Hill, who flew to Blegrade today to speak with him. Instead Mr. Hill was relegated to the Foreign Minister.
As Mr. Hill returned to the talks at Rambouillet, outside Paris, emptyhanded, Mr. Milosevic increased his propaganda against NATO deployment of peacekeepers in Kosovo, saying in a statement that Serbs would never give up Kosovo, the southern province of Serbia, even if meant being bombed.
Washington and its European allies have insisted that if Mr. Milosevic refuses to sign a peace agreement by noon Saturday that calls for NATO-led peacekeeping troops in Kosovo, NATO will begin air strikes against Serbian military targets.
It was unclear how the Administration and its allies would respond if the deadline passed without a settlement. President CLinton has said the deadline will not be extended, but the option exists to simply allow it to lapse informally.
Even as negotiators toiled over revisions in the political text of the settlement in an all-night session at Rambouillet, diplomats said Saturday's decisions remained unclear.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright had planned to go to Rambouillet on Saturday to meet with the two sides there.
She was reasonably optimistic, an official said today, that the ethnic Albanians would be prepared to sign an agreement encompassing the political arrangements for self-government in Kosovo as well as acceptance of 28,000 NATO troops.
The negotiators have been trying to insure the signature of the ethnic Albanians by Saturday because with the agreement of one side in hand, the pressure on Mr. Milosevic increases dramatically.
But by tonight, the ethnic Albanians appeared to be increasingly unhappy with new insertions in the political text that they said tilted too far in favor of the Serbs.
The foreign ministers of the contact group, the group of six nations that have organized the talks, are likely to meet in Rambouillet after the noon deadline has passed.
At the same time, the 16 ambassadors of NATO countries are to meet in Brussels. The Secretary General of NATO, Javier Solana, was empowered by NATO members two weeks ago to order air strikes if Mr. Milosevic did not agree to a peace settlement.
But before deciding on bombing, Mr. Solana planned to consult the 16 members and probably take into account the assessment of the contact group, NATO officials said.
The final stages of the talks, of which Ms. Albright has been a driving force, appeared to put her in a potentially awkward situation. She does not want to be seen going to Belgrade begging Mr. Milosevic to agree to the peace accord -- and in particular, the presence of NATO troops in Kosovo -- but she also does not want European ministers to do the deal, diplomats said.
Serbian officials have said Mr. Milosevic would be pleased to see the Administration's special envoy, Richard C. Holbrooke, whom Mr. Milosevic has negotiated with on many occasions.
But an Administration official said it had been decided that Mr. Holbrooke was not the man for negotiating with Mr. Milosevic this time. Mr. Holbrooke has coming confirmation hearings as representative to the United Nations to contend with.
The rebuff by Mr. Milosevic, less than 24 hours before NATO is to decide whether to go ahead with air strikes, is not unusual behavior for him. He kept the West at bay through four years of war in Bosnia after endless visits by Western politicians, and is recognized as a master of wheedling the most out of a difficult diplomatic situation.
"Milosevic will require more visible attention and courting," said a diplomat involved in the negotiations.
If several foreign ministers from the contact group went to Belgrade, there were no plans for Ms. Albright to join them, particularly since it was unclear that such a journey would produce an agreement, Administration officials said "Albright doesn't want to do this unless there is a deal," an Administration official said.
Almost certainly a price Mr. Milosevic will ask for signing an agreement is the removal of economic and diplomatic sanctions against his country. A senior Administration official said Washington would not object to the lifting of investment bans, travel bans and other sanctions placed on Serbia last summer if Mr. Milosevic pledged to accept a peace agreement in Kosovo with NATO troops.
But the more severe set of sanctions, which are of the greatest interest to Mr. Milosevic's cash-strapped Government, involve bans against loans from international financial institutions. So far, the Administration has said it will not budge on those.
Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, who has supported the ethnic Albanian cause in Kosovo, criticized the negotiators tonight, saying they have gone too far in accepting suggestions from Mr. Milosevic.
Mr. Hill, who was rebuffed by Mr. Milosevic today, met with him on Tuesday and went back to Rambouillet, Mr. McConnell said, with pro-Serbian clauses for the self-government parts of the agreement.
Among other things, the ethnic Albanians were upset with an increased number of references to the sovereignty of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the text of the proposed constitution. For the ethnic Albanians, self-government is the key of the new political arrangements. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US PEACE PROCESS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); BOMBINGS (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); POLITICS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); HILL, CHRISTOPHER R (AMB) BILL CLINTON (78%); JAVIER SOLANA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



433 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Joseph R. Gregory

 BODY:

EUROPE
BRITAIN: DEBT RELIEF URGED -- Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown said he would use a meeting in Germany of the Group of Seven to reinforce American and German calls for accelerated debt relief for the world's poorest nations. Mr. Brown said he would press for $50 billion worth of debt to be wiped out. Alan Cowell (NYT) 

BRITAIN: THE POPE AND PINOCHET -- Britain said the Pope was not involved in a written request by the Vatican on behalf of the former Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the BBC news service said. The Vatican confirmed that it had asked Britain to send General Pinochet home rather than to Spain to face trial for human rights abuses, The Associated Press reported.
 
MIDDLE EAST
IRAQ: MORE SKIRMISHES -- Iraqi forces opened fire on Western aircraft flying sorties over the northern and southern no-flight zones, an Iraqi military communique said. A U.S. official said American jets had fired two missiles at an Iraqi radar site. (Reuters)
 
ASIA
JAPAN: A RECORD BUDGET -- The lower house of Parliament passed a $682.5 billion budget that includes large spending increases and tax cuts to spur growth. But many experts said it failed to address fundamental flaws in the economy. (AP)
 
INDIA: WORLD BANK LOAN -- The World Bank has approved a $210 million loan to India for a power project, the first such aid since the United States led an international effort to impose sanctions after India's nuclear tests in May. An American official said that Washington would drop its objections because India was working to insure that other countries were denied its nuclear expertise. (AP)
 
PAKISTAN: PROTESTS OVER INDIA PREMIER'S VISIT -- Gun battles raged in Kashmir and more than 1,000 protesters in Lahore demanded that India leave Kashmir, the disputed Himalayan region. The protests came as Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India, left, prepared to travel on the inaugural trip of a crossborder bus service to improve relations. (Reuters)
 
INDIA: MOTHERS AS EQUAL GUARDIANS -- The Supreme Court recognized a child's mother as a guardian equal to the father under Indian law, officials said. The ruling came after Githa Hariharan, a writer, and her husband had sued the Central Bank for refusing to accept an application to issue bonds in the name of their teen-age son because the application was not signed by the father. (Reuters)
 
INDONESIA: WARNING ON EAST TIMOR -- The Red Cross is seeking greater access to East Timor after it was refused permission to aid residents of Ambon after riots last month. The organization's president, Cornelio Sommaruga, warned of the danger posed by rival paramilitary groups in the province, which is torn by Christian-Muslim violence. (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
CANADA, MEXICO: MEETINGS ON TRADE -- Officials of both countries agreed to cooperate on satellite communications and other issues at meetings in Ottawa this week. But Mexico was unwilling to support Canada's push for changes in the investment rules of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Anthony DePalma (NYT)
 
MEXICO: EVALUATING DRUG POLICY -- A Congressional delegation headed by John Mica, a Florida Republican, is in Mexico City to discuss anti-narcotics policies. Mr. Mica is chairman of a House subcommittee that will play a key role in evaluating President Clinton's certification of Mexico as a reliable partner in the drug war. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
HAITI: TALKS BREAK OFF -- President Rene Preval and opposition leaders failed to resolve a crisis that began last month when Mr. Preval declared that the terms of most legislators had ended. Legislators say they should be allowed to serve their full four-year terms because elections to select successors have not been held. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: FREEDOM OF THE PRESS -- Government officials and editors have signed an agreement recognizing the right of journalists to protect their sources, especially when writing about crime. Many have been concerned about the Government's attitude toward the press, and fear that a broad investigation of racism in the news media by the Human Rights Commission might be used to intimidate journalists in an election year. Suzanne Daley (NYT)
 
CONGO: FIGHTING INTENSIFIES -- Rebels seeking to oust President Laurent Kabila said they had shot down a Zimbabwe MIG fighter as both sides reported heavy fighting. The rebels said the jet was shot down over Kabalo, a front-line town in southeastern Congo where they are making a push for the diamond-mining city of Mbuji-Mayi. Ian Fisher (NYT)
 
ETHIOPIA AND ERITREA: DIPLOMATS REBUFFED -- Ethiopia refused a European Union delegation's request to meet with Prime Minister Meles Zenawi in an effort to halt fighting with Eritrea, diplomats said. "They came uninvited and Ethiopia's position is that they should be speaking to the Eritreans," said a diplomat. The delegation met with Ethiopia's Foreign Minister, then left for Eritrea. (Reuters)
 
RWANDA: KENYA HOLDS WAR CRIMES SUSPECTS -- Casimir Bizimungu, Health Minister in the interim Rwandan Government formed after the genocide in 1994, was arrested in Nairobi, Kenya, the United Nations tribunal in Arusha, Tanzania, said. It said the former Rwandan Information Minister, Eliezer Niyitegeka, was also arrested, bringing to 12 the number of suspects held in Kenya for handing over to the tribunal. (Agence France-Presse) Compiled by Joseph R. Gregory
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Map of Congo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (85%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); IRAQ (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); INDONESIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (92%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); IRAQ (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); INDONESIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); KASHMIR (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); RELIGION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); APPROVALS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); WRITERS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (67%); TAX LAW (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); RIOTS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (54%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



434 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Trade Deficit Soared 53%, To $168.8 Billion in 1998
The United States trade deficit soared 53 percent last year, to a record $168.8 billion, as the global financial crisis forced the first decline in American exports in more than a decade.
Most of the increase in the deficit came from remarkably strong consumer spending for foreign-made goods. But the deficit for December narrowed unexpectedly, to $13.8 billion, a 10 percent decline from November. Page A1. 

Kosovo Warning Dampens Markets
The stock market ended higher but pulled back from earlier gains after President Clinton warned that Serbian leaders would be "held accountable" if peace talks on Kosovo collapsed. The Dow industrials closed at 9,339.95, up 41.32 points after a 97-point gain dwindled in the closing minutes. The Nasdaq composite index, which rose 15 percent in January but lost most of those gains in a steep selloff this month, rose 23.05, to 2,283.60. C3.
 
Inflation Mild Despite Growth
Although a strong economy and rising wages should be pushing up the inflation rate, the Consumer Price Index inched up only one-tenth of 1 percent in January, continuing a pattern of surprisingly mild inflation that has lasted for more than two years. C2.
 
More Money at Morgan Stanley
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's top executives got big raises this year, but the firm's profits grew even faster. The compensation of the company's chairman and president rose 7.6 percent and 8.2 percent, respectively. But Morgan's profit rose by 15 percent. C14.
 
Government Set to Reduce Injuries
The Labor Department has taken the first formal steps to require employers to redesign jobs and alter work stations in order to reduce the risk of workers' suffering injuries to the neck, back, arms and hands. A1.
 
Friction Among Finance Ministers
Discord is likely at a meeting of finance ministers from the Group of Seven, including Germany's Oskar Lafontaine, in Bonn today. The United States is bracing for disagreements with Germany and France over measures to control exchange rates and reduce financial turbulence. But European countries disagree about those issues, and the new European Central Bank is dead set against the French and German proposals. C2.
 
Different Perspectives in Saipan
Chinese workers have propelled the successful garment industry in Saipan, the capital of the United States commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. The industry was hit with a legal bombshell in January when lawyers filed a class-action suit accusing garment makers and major retailers of systematically underpaying and mistreating workers in Saipan. But interviews with dozens of Chinese workers in Saipan tell a story that is far less stark. A3.
 
A Focus on Union Membership
During his three years as president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., John J. Sweeney has repeatedly given a grim message to its 70 unions: organize or die. With union membership plunging, the federation's chief has warned, labor's influence will continue to decline. Many unions have begun taking Mr. Sweeney's warnings to heart, and as a result, the discussion at the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s executive council meeting in Miami this week often focused on how to woo more workers to unions. A8.
 
Acquisition Talk Lifts America West
Shares of America West Holdings rose 13 percent amid speculation that it would attract competing takeover bids from Continental Airlines and UAL, the parent of United Airlines. It was reported that UAL had offered to buy America West Holdings earlier this week. Continental, which already owns 8 percent of the airline, has said it may seek a controlling stake. C3.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,339.95 up 41.32
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.38% Unchanged
The Dollar -- 121.25 yen up 1.34
 
Graph tracks the Nasdaq Composite's daily closes since January 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); KOSOVO (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); KOSOVO (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); GARMENT WORKERS (87%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); EXCHANGE RATES (66%); US TERRITORIES (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); APPAREL MFG (60%); CLASS ACTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



435 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Outbreak in Afghan Region Concerns W.H.O.

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 19

 BODY:
The World Health Organization is trying to get two epidemiologists into an extremely remote part of Afghanistan to diagnose a mysterious disease, United Nations officials said today.
The officials said the Afghan representative to the world health group in Geneva urgently appealed for help in diagnosing the illness, which they said had infected 2,000 people and killed at least 150 people, and possibly as many as 700. 
 World Health Organization officials would not speculate on which disease might have erupted in the villages, including Darwaz, a hamlet situated in narrow valleys between mountains that is said to be a 10-day donkey ride from Faizabad, the largest town in northeastern Afghanistan. But symptoms are said to include fever, cough, vomiting and diarrhea, with elderly people and children the most severely affected.
One official said the health organization was looking into whether the disease might be cholera or plague, which have been endemic in the region and have similar symptoms.
Reuters quoted a representative of an Afghan group in Islamabad, Pakistan, that has been fighting the ruling Taliban for control of Afghanistan as saying the disease had never before been seen in that region. "It is not cholera, not typhoid," the agency quoted the representative as saying. "It is a very odd disease."
The epidemiologists from the health group's division of communicable and other emerging diseases are trying to reach Darwaz from Dushanbe, Tajikistan, which has been asked to provide emergency visas. From there the scientists are expected to travel by United Nations peacekeeping helicopter.
The United Nations spokesman, Fred Eckhard, said the health organization in Afghanistan had first received reports of the outbreak about a week ago from Darwaz.
One official noted that the illnesses were occurring in an area hit by a severe earthquake last year. He implied that the resulting severe disruption of the region's economy and services may have been a factor in fostering the outbreak.
But the Clinton Administration is alert to the possibility that such outbreaks could have other than natural causes. It is trying to improve the medical community's ability to distinguish rapidly between the natural outbreak of an infectious lethal disease and an outbreak caused by an attack using germs. After the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1979, several thousand deaths were attributed to a man-made "yellow rain," a vaporized form of Trichothecene mycotoxins.
The Administration has asked for increased funding for the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, among other things, to improve international health surveillance for more rapid detection of suspicious diseases. The ability to make the distinction is a key part of the Administration's strategy to defend the United States against biological terrorism.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Afghanistan shows location of Darwaz: At least 150 people are reported to have died in the Darwaz area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (95%); SWITZERLAND (92%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (96%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (96%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN; DARWAZ (AFGHANISTAN); AFGHANISTAN (95%); SWITZERLAND (92%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EPIDEMICS PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); TALIBAN (78%); DISEASE REPORTING (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); MOLDS & FUNGI (73%); TERRORISM (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (69%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (54%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



436 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: Improvements On a Small Scale;
Brooklyn BID Makes Strides Despite Its Modest Budget

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
Ringed with menacing concertina wire and lined with painted storage lockers, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority parking lot at Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues in Brooklyn is an ugly place. But when Rick Russo looks at it, he has fantasies of a small concert hall or a community center rising on the site.
"Maybe the M.T.A. could somehow transfer it over to us and we could develop it," said Mr. Russo, who runs a tiny business improvement district that provides services for property owners and merchants along eight blocks of Flatbush. "That would be a great BID project." 
 It is this kind of grandiose talk that makes some people kid Mr. Russo about trying to be the Dan Biederman of Brooklyn -- a tongue-in-cheek comparison to the Manhattan BID president who got on the wrong side of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani for wielding too much power.
But while Mr. Russo, 40, may harbor big ambitions -- he would also like to see his BID expand into Seventh Avenue, a more upscale shopping district in Park Slope -- he is also firmly committed to bringing about modest improvements. These may be so minor as to be barely perceptible, yet they can make a big difference in an area's -image.
Touring the neighborhood with a visitor recently, Mr. Russo pointed to a clunky, graffiti-scarred garbage can and displayed his talent for thinking small. "Here's a case of a trash receptacle that must go," he declared. Replacing the existing 28 trash receptacles in his district is an achievable goal, even for one of the city's smallest BIDs, and Mr. Russo has already picked out a graffiti-resistant model from a catalogue.
Mr. Russo's group, the North Flatbush Avenue Business Improvement District, is one of 40 public-private partnerships that have sprung up in the city since 1984, two years after they were authorized by law. But while 10 BIDs have revenues of $1 million or more -- climbing up to as much as $10 million for the Grand Central Partnership in midtown Manhattan -- North Flatbush must make do with $93,000 a year, the fourth smallest BID assessment. (The city collects the assessment from the property owners and returns it to the BID. The tax amounts to about $300 a year for a typical storefront in the North Flatbush BID.)
So while large BIDs employ battalions of street sweepers, North Flatbush, which stretches from Atlantic Avenue to Grand Army Plaza, can afford only one. And unlike other, wealthier BIDs, it cannot hire security guards or buy street lamps.
Relentlessly upbeat about his neighborhood and his relationship with the city, Mr. Russo nevertheless feels hemmed in by financial realities. "I have a lot of vision of things to do on the street," he said, "but I can't bring it to fruition because of the budget. The budget is just so small."
Yet despite these limitations, merchants and property owners along the one-mile segment of Flatbush Avenue, as well as city officials and local civic and political leaders, say the 13-year-old BID has enhanced the area in countless small but often imaginative ways. Mr. Russo, the BIDs only employee, was appointed executive director in 1993 by the organization's board, which is made up of seven commercial property owners, two commercial tenants, one resident, the district managers of two community boards, and four government representatives.
"We have trotted him around to other BIDs with small budgets," said Barbara Wolff, an assistant commissioner for the Department of Business Services, the city agency that oversees the BIDs, "so they can learn how he has been able to do more with less."
To fashion a shopping district out of 160 stores on both sides of a major traffic artery that is considered too wide to be inviting to pedestrians, the group hangs 48 banners on lampposts, rotating them with the seasons. It mails discount cards for participating stores to thousands of residents of Prospect Heights and Park Slope, the two neighborhoods on either side of the avenue. It also organizes joint advertising campaigns in local newspapers and an annual street fair, hands out posters publicizing the city's sales-tax-free weeks and distributes shopping guides and plastic bags with a design illustrating the slogan Mr. Russo devised for the multi-ethnic district: "Serving Diversity."
Mercedes Asemota, an owner of Shekere, a gift shop on Flatbush that specializes in African dolls, drums and other products, said the distinctive bags help shape an identity for the area. "I smile when I take the subway, and I see someone with a bag," she said. "It gives me a sense of belonging to a neighborhood."
Henry Weinstein, the owner of a cluttered store called Natural Furniture and a board member of the BID, said the banners have brought in new business. "We have a lot more foot traffic because they hung banners," he said. "It made the street much more pedestrian friendly."
In addition to providing promotion assistance, Mr. Russo is also the shopkeepers' link with city agencies, including the police. He has helped merchants contest traffic tickets and reduce their water bills, and has intervened when they needed a loading zone. Sometimes, however, his watchdog role requires him to seek sanctions against a merchant who is dumping trash illegally or setting up merchandise in front of his store.
A musician and film composer, Mr. Russo is a Park Slope resident who has worked for several local organizations, including the Brooklyn Arts Council and the Atlantic Avenue Association Local Development Council. From 1987 to 1994 he was the director of Atlantic Antic, a major Brooklyn cultural festival. Part artist, part showman, he often comes up with creative ideas for stretching his meager dollars, sometimes with mixed results. To cut down on graffiti, he has enlisted neighborhood youths to paint murals or designs on roll-down metal store gates. Some merchants admire the murals, but others say they look seedy.
Mr. Russo sees his district as a "gateway" between downtown Brooklyn and the borough's cultural institutions, although it is chiefly known for its three long-established home improvement stores, Pintchik's, Bergen Tile and City Lighting, and as the home of the Brooklyn Tabernacle. After six years of running the BID, Mr. Russo is a familiar figure in the neighborhood as he makes the rounds of the stores.
"Rick has a lot of personal qualities that enable him to relate to a broad array of merchants," said Kenneth Adams, the president of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce. "He's their ombudsman, their publicist, their ambassador to City Hall." Mr. Russo, who earns $25,000 a year in his part-time BID post, also serves as a consultant to the Chamber and the Brooklyn Borough President's office and as the associate producer of the annual Greenwich Village Halloween parade.
The roots of the BID go back a quarter of a century to the North Flatbush Avenue Triangle Committee, which was created by a group of property owners, residents and merchants to provide a voice in the street's redevelopment. That group evolved into the North Flatbush Betterment Committee, whose mission included economic revitalization and ridding the neighborhood of prostitution. The BID was formed in 1986.
Mr. Russo said that since he joined the BID, the vacancy rate among storefronts in the district has declined to about 5 percent from 18 percent, turnover has been slightly reduced and there are signs that the area is beginning to draw a new type of tenant. A health club is expected to open in June in a second-story space between Seventh Avenue and Sterling Place that has been vacant for three decades.
Marc Tascher, the developer of the new club, Park Slope Fitness, and the owner of four other gyms, said that Mr. Russo helped drum up support for the project, which, like all health clubs, could not be built without a special permit from the city's Board of Standards and Appeals. "Otherwise, I would have had to go door-to-door" to talk to merchants, he said.
Richard Briffault, a Columbia University law professor who is writing a book about public-private partnerships, a hot topic right now in economic development circles around the nation, said that while the groups generally do their job well, it is hard to calculate just how much credit they deserve for improving New York neighborhoods. "People trumpet the improvements," Professor Briffault said, "but no one really knows how much is due to the BID and how much is due to the general economic improvement in the city."
In the aftermath of Mr. Giuliani's well-publicized feud with Mr. Biederman, the city has tightened its oversight of all the BIDs. (Mr. Biederman resigned in September, under pressure from the Mayor, as president of the Grand Central Partnership, but remains president of two other midtown Manhattan BIDs.) Mr. Russo is now required to make either an oral or written report of the BID's activities each week.
Some of the new requirements, including stricter auditing, are costly for BIDs like North Flatbush, said Regina Cahill, the president of the BID. "For us, it's a little overkill," she said. "We have a reputation for being squeaky clean."
But Mr. Russo said he does not chafe under the shorter leash because it gives him greater access to city officials. "It's only helped to strengthen an already good relationship," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rick Russo, left, a musician and film composer, is executive director of the North Flatbush Avenue Business Improvement District in Brooklyn, a post he has held since 1993. Above, Luis Soledispa, a street sweeper, cleaning a section of the avenue in the district. (Photographs by Aaron Fineman for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Mercedes and Benson Asemota own a shop on Flatbush Avenue. She says that plastic bags with the BID logo help shape the area's identity. (Aaron Fineman for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NORTH FLATBUSH AVE BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT AQUANTIVE INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH FLATBUSH AVE BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (85%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); RETAILERS (75%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; RUSSO, RICK RUDY GIULIANI (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



437 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Labor Department Acts to Stem Epidemic of Job-Related Aches

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration promised relief today to millions of workers with aching backs, crippled fingers, sore wrists and other physical problems caused or aggravated by their jobs.
The Labor Department took the first formal step to require employers to redesign jobs and alter work stations to accommodate workers suffering from injuries to the neck, back, arms and hands, and to help prevent such injuries. It made public a draft of proposed rules and said a final regulation, with the force of law, would be issued late next year after an extended period of public comment. 
 The proposal is intended to alleviate one of the biggest problems in American factories and offices: the epidemic of occupational injury and illness known as musculoskeletal disorders. These conditions include carpal tunnel syndrome, low back pain, muscle strains, sciatica and tendinitis. They account for one-third of all serious workplace injuries and cause more than 640,000 workers a year to miss time on the job, the Government said.
While much of the attention related to such disorders has focused on computer users, the rules proposed today would cover many other workers, from meatpackers to physical therapists.
Administration officials, labor unions and occupational health experts said the standards were overdue.
"Recognition of musculoskeletal disorders has been slow in coming," said Charles N. Jeffress, the Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. "For many years, it was just considered a cost of doing business. If you did certain jobs, you would end up with hands crippled at the end of your career. That's not acceptable in this country anymore."
But employers and some Republican members of Congress have strenuously opposed such regulation, and the United States Chamber of Commerce urged the occupational safety agency today to wait for the National Academy of Sciences to finish a study on whether there is a scientific basis for national ergonomic standards.
"This hopelessly vague draft is a blank check for OSHA inspectors," Peter J. Eide, a lawyer at the Chamber of Commerce, said of the Government proposal. "It would require all American businesses to become full-time experts in ergonomics, a field for which there is little if any credible evidence."
In fact, there has been much debate about the scientific evidence surrounding workplace injuries, and lawyers have had a hard time proving in court that some specific kinds of disorders resulted from defects in the design of computer keyboards. But a committee of the National Academy of Sciences said in a preliminary report last year that some musculoskeletal disorders were caused by work activities and that ergonomics programs could reduce injuries and the level of pain and disability.
Restrictions written into Congressional appropriations for the 1996-98 fiscal years barred the safety agency from final adoption of any such rules. But the restrictions are absent from current law, and the Administration is hopeful that Congress will be prepared to accept some degree of regulation. Like most Federal rules, these would also require clearance from the White House Office of Management and Budget, but that is expected.
The Government has not yet done a detailed estimate of the costs to employers, as it must before issuing the final rules. But Assistant Secretary Jeffress said he believed that the compliance costs would be less than the costs employers now incur because of workdays lost to preventable injury and illness. The Labor Department said musculoskeletal disorders cost employers $15 billion to $20 billion a year in workers' compensation expenses and tens of billions more in lost productivity.
The proposed rules would protect workers in production jobs and "manual handling operations" that involve pushing, pulling, carrying, lifting or lowering objects or people -- a total of at least 25 million employees. Assembly line workers would be covered, for example, as would machine operators, bakers, meatpackers, office cleaning crews, warehousemen, nurses, physical therapists, grocery checkout clerks and people who deliver the mail or packages for the Postal Service, the United Parcel Service and Federal Express.
In addition, the standards would apply to hundreds of thousands of employers in other industries if they had even one employee with a musculoskeletal disorder. Thus, the standards would protect millions of people who work at computer terminals, entering financial data for banks and insurance companies, writing and editing articles for newspapers and magazines, or taking telephone orders for all sorts of services and merchandise.
The standards would not apply to construction work, agriculture or the maritime industry, where, the Government says, it has less evidence of musculoskeletal disorders.
Employers covered by the rules would be required to adopt "ergonomic programs" to identify hazards and respond to worker complaints. They would, for example, have to provide employees with prompt access to health care professionals who could treat work-related medical problems, at no cost to the employees.
Doctors could recommend work restrictions or reassignments for employees, and the employer would normally have to follow these recommendations. An employer would also have to "maintain the employee's total normal earnings, seniority, rights and benefits when work restrictions are prescribed."
The proposed rules test the Government's ability to keep up with a fast-changing economy in which technology is continually altering the nature of work and the tasks performed. Federal officials said they wanted to be sure to protect "intensive computer users," for example, but had found no easy way to identify them.
So, under the proposed rules, computer users performing a specific job at a particular work site would be covered if even one of them had a work-related injury.
Gary B. Orr, an ergonomics engineer at the Labor Department, said: "It's clear that computer users are developing musculoskeletal disorders, but the risk appears to depend on many factors: How many key strokes do workers perform? How often do they click the mouse? How much rest do they have? How much control do they have over the pace of work? Are the computer keyboard and monitor in a good position?"
Like most OSHA standards, the proposed rules would apply to employers of all sizes. Sarah Shortall, a Labor Department lawyer, said, "OSHA has never totally exempted small employers from any safety or health standard," although "companies with fewer than 10 employees are sometimes exempted from record-keeping requirements."
The agency may impose a civil penalty of up to $70,000 for a single willful violation of its standards. So if violations occurred at three different work sites operated by the same company, even if the violations were of the same kind, the penalty could be $210,000. In practice, however, the penalties are usually lower than that.
Thomas M. Sullivan, a lawyer at the National Federation of Independent Business, which represents 600,000 small businesses, said: "We believe this rule-making initiative is premature. The Government should wait for the results of a comprehensive study being done by the National Academy of Sciences. The cost per worker will be at least 50 percent higher for small businesses than for big business. Small businesses don't have industrial hygienists on staff to deal with rules like this."
The Labor Department said several employers had already demonstrated the value of ergonomics programs. For example, it said, Fieldcrest Cannon sharply reduced injuries at its textile factories by lessening the need for workers to bend and reach. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; NECK; ARMS (BODY PART); HANDS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (92%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (91%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (91%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (90%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ERGONOMICS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (85%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (85%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HUMAN FACTORS ENGINEERING (77%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); LAWYERS (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (69%); EVIDENCE (65%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



438 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
Collins Is Giants' Backup (for $16.9 Million)

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON 

 BODY:
The Giants signed quarterback Kerry Collins yesterday to a four-year, $16.9 million free-agent contract that made him the highest-paid player in team history and the highest-paid Giant by nearly $1 million annually. Danny Kanell, the Giants' quarterback of the future just a year ago, was released.
The 26-year-old Collins, with a $5 million signing bonus in hand, was then told by Giants Coach Jim Fassel to take a seat on the bench, bringing new meaning to the notion that good seats to Giants games are rare and valuable. 
 Fassel named Kent Graham, 30, who was the starter at the end of last season, the No. 1 quarterback yesterday in an attempt to ease the pressure on Collins as he joins the National Football League's second-worst offense. The coach also recognized the potential friction that Collins's arrival might spawn on several fronts.
But Fassel will spend the better part of the next six months trying to explain how he can pay Collins more than $4 million a year not to play. Graham's base salary is $1.2 million. At a time in the N.F.L. when salary-cap issues dominate teams' decision-making, it is an economic reality that there will be pressure on Fassel to play Collins. And soon.
Behind the scenes, that reality could spark a rift in the Giants' leadership. General Manager Ernie Accorsi was the driving force behind the pursuit and signing of Collins, the fifth overall pick in the 1995 draft. Fassel has long been a Graham advocate and believed before the events of the past two days that the team could win with him. (The team finished 8-8 last season, including 5-1 with Graham as the starter.) There is the long-term potential for an internal argument over who the quarterback should be.
If that was not enough to complicate Collins's arrival, there was the possibility that Collins could be greeted coolly by his new teammates, especially the black players on the team who are well aware of Collins's use of a racial slur at a Carolina Panthers party in 1997 -- an incident that ignited racial tensions in the Panthers' locker room.
Among the highest-paid Giants are the team's only Pro Bowl players, defensive end Michael Strahan and linebacker Jessie Armstead. Both are black, and Strahan earns slightly more than $3 million a year, Armstead slightly less.
Fassel and Accorsi said they had closely examined and investigated Collins's myriad off-the-field woes the last two years, which include a drunken driving arrest, and concluded that Collins was committed to changing some of his old habits.
His agent, Leigh Steinberg, said Collins seeks regular counseling from a psychologist and "understands he has a problem." Collins stopping drinking alcohol about six weeks ago, Steinberg said.
"When I met with Kerry he said all the right things in a convincing, sincere way," Fassel said of Collins, who was released by the Carolina Panthers last season and ignored in the free-agent market by the New Orleans Saints, for whom he started late in 1998. "He's coming here to start over and restructure his whole approach. The entire focus of his life has to be football. I needed to be assured that he knows that, and I was.
"It's a worthwhile risk. When you're looking at a quarterback with a major league arm and talent with a big upside, there's always a price to pay."
Fassel, who was having dinner with Collins last night in Indianapolis, where the football executives have gathered for the annual scouting combine of college players, said that there would not be a competition for the starting quarterback's job in training camp this summer, that the job belonged to Graham. Fassel said Collins's job was to work on his passing fundamentals so he could perhaps be the long-term answer in the Giants' quarterback picture.
Accorsi was less specific about when he thought Collins might contribute on a regular basis.
"Things have a way of playing out," Accorsi said. "You just don't know. Injuries occur, a lot can occur. You need to stockpile as many players at each position as you can, especially at quarterback."
His contract is structured so the Giants can release him after this season without much cap damage if they are unhappy with him. His bonus is large, but his base salary in 1999 is $460,000. The base salary in the final year of his contract is $4.5 million.
In a statement released by the team, Collins said: "I am grateful for this opportunity. A great deal has happened in my life over the past year or so, and I am looking forward to a fresh start with the Giants. They have given me an opportunity that will allow me to develop as a person and a player. It is up to me to take advantage of that opportunity."
Kanell, 25, said he felt a little bitter about his release by the Giants, who drafted him in the fourth round in 1996. "I'm disappointed; I think it's a mistake by the Giants," Kanell said. "I started 20 games and won 10. This season, I played poorly sometimes but really didn't get much help. I was taking a pretty good beating. Next thing you know I'm out of here. I feel it was a quick hook."
Kanell, whose exit saved the Giants $2 million on this year's salary cap, said he had agreed to take a pay cut to stay with the Giants. He is expecting to sign with another team, and his first choice was the Miami Dolphins, close to his home in Fort Lauderdale.
Graham, who was returning from a Florida family vacation yesterday, issued a statement through the team.
"I expected to be the starter this season," he said. "Jim gave me a job to do last year -- to win games -- and we went 5-1. I felt I had earned the right to start this season."
Fassel said he had talked to Graham.
"Kent wasn't real happy," Fassel said. "But I explained some things to him. Kent will be fine."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The free-agent Kerry Collins is the richest player in Giants history, but not a starter. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GIANTS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (85%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (64%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: PENNINGTON, BILL; COLLINS, KERRY; GRAHAM, KENT KERRY COLLINS (98%); JIM FASSEL (93%); KENT GRAHAM (70%); ERNIE ACCORSI (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



439 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Defying the Usual Wisdom, Inflation Holds Near Zero

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Although a strong economy and rising wages should be pushing up the inflation rate, the Consumer Price Index inched up only one-tenth of 1 percent in January, the Labor Department reported yesterday -- continuing a pattern of surprisingly mild inflation that has lasted for more than two years.
Falling prices for petroleum and imported goods are playing a big role in holding down the C.P.I., the best-known measure of what Americans pay for food, fuel, merchandise and services. The index rose by just 1.7 percent for the 12 months through January. But even if import and energy prices had not fallen as a result of the Asian crisis, consumer inflation would have been mild, rising by only 3 percent this last year, according to Standard & Poor's DRI, an economic forecasting service. 
 "That is well within what Americans have come to accept as a comfortable inflation rate," said David Wyss, the chief economist at DRI.
The shift to a lower inflation rate in the late 1990's has changed the Federal Reserve. The Fed had viewed strong economic growth, low unemployment and rising wages as signals that the C.P.I. would soon rise as businesses jacked up prices in response to the strong demand and rising labor costs. So even before there was actual evidence of higher inflation, the Fed raised interest rates to slow the economy.
That was the strategy in March 1997, the last time the Fed increased rates. The nation then was 15 months into the economic boom that has continued to this day. But the inflation rate never rose, and it confounded so many forecasts of imminent increases that Fed policy makers were persuaded to switch tactics. Rather than anticipate rising inflation, the policy makers now prefer to wait for evidence before acting. The Asian crisis has also inhibited them, and a rate increase could deepen it.
This new caution is likely to be reflected in the testimony of Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, when he appears before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday to report on the state of the economy.
"There is a distinct lack of upward pressure on prices," said Patrick Jackman, chief of the C.P.I. division of the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics. The C.P.I. has risen at an annual rate of less than 2 percent for two years and at less than 3 percent for most of the 1990's.
But how has American business managed to hold down prices and sustain profits despite rising costs? Economists offer several explanations. Productivity has improved in the last two years. Employees are producing more goods and services for each hour of work, in part because they are using more efficient machinery and equipment.
In addition, the premiums that companies pay for workers' compensation and unemployment insurance are sharply lower in many states. With interest rates relatively low, the cost of corporate debt has declined. And employers now raise pay for highly skilled workers in short supply without raising wage scales for all their employees.
The growing use of temporary workers helps in this process. So does the growing use of one-time bonuses in lieu of raises. And the spreading use of corporate subsidies from state and local governments, often in the form of tax credits and tax abatements, has made possible significant new savings for many companies, according to a study by two University of Iowa professors.
"No one knows how extensive these savings are," said Alan Peters, an urban planner at the university. "The intricacies of the deals are often not part of the public record."
Reflecting the various savings, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that its index of nonlabor costs for each unit of production rose ever more slowly in the mid-1990's and fell by 1.4 percent in 1998.
The mild one-tenth of 1 percent rise in the C.P.I. in January, which matched December's increase, resulted mostly from a jump in the prices of fruit, dairy products, vegetables and tobacco. A citrus-damaging California freeze caused the increase in food prices. But while food and beverage prices jumped four-tenths of a percent, energy prices fell. So did housing, apparel and transportation prices. The housing drop was the first since February 1986, and the 1.1 percent slide in apparel prices was the sharpest in a decade. Medical care, education and business services all rose, but modestly in most cases.
Without food and energy, the C.P.I. also rose one-tenth of 1 percent.
For the first time, the Labor Department allowed for substitutions in calculating the C.P.I. Instead of counting, say, a 10 percent rise in the price of cotton shirts as a price increase, officials now take into account consumer shifts to cheaper shirts. If enough buy cheaper products, the price increase would be diluted. This substitution brought no change in January. Over 12 months, however, the C.P.I. is likely to be lower by two-tenths of a percentage point because of the substitution.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks consumer prices since Feb. 1998. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) STANDARD & POOR'S DRI (69%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INFLATION (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (62%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



440 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: TRADE DEFICIT HIT NEW HIGH IN 1998

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit soared 53 percent last year, to a record $168.8 billion, the Commerce Department reported today, as the global financial crisis forced the first decline in American exports in more than a decade.
Political sensitivities are growing to the fast-rising trade deficit -- particularly in hard-hit industries like steel -- even while consumers benefit from an influx of low-cost gasoline, computer chips and a range of electronic goods. This year the trade imbalance is expected to widen even further, especially if Japan remains mired in its deepest recession since World War II. 
 Most of the increase in the deficit, American officials said, came from remarkably strong consumer spending for foreign-made goods. But the deficit for December narrowed unexpectedly, to $13.8 billion, a 10 percent decline from November.
Not surprisingly, the biggest increases in the trade deficit originated from the hardest-hit nations of Asia. The deficit with Japan rose to $64 billion, from $56 billion in 1997, bringing it back to the levels that touched off some of the fiercest trade tensions with Japan a decade ago. Those have been alleviated recently by the continuing strength of the American economy, which has muted the 1980's accusations that Japanese imports were taking American jobs. The trade deficit with China rose to $56.9 billion, the highest with any nation other than Japan, a 15 percent increase from the previous year.
Trying to put the best face on a deteriorating trade balance, a senior Commerce Department official said today that there were signs of a "spotty recovery" of American exports to Asia, particularly to South Korea and Singapore.
But both are relatively small markets, and over all in 1998 the trade deficit with all Pacific Rim nations totaled $160.3 billion, up from $121.7 billion in 1997.
Perhaps the biggest political challenge for the Clinton Administration arises from the falloff in American exports. For six years, the Administration has cited its drive to increase exports as a key element of American financial health, boasting that exports had created vast numbers of high-skill, high-wage jobs. The financial crisis that has spread from Asia to Latin America and Russia has robbed the Administration of that claim, and the issue could easily turn on it if the American economy slowed and joblessness began to rise.
"The deficit tends to reflect the falloff in U.S. exports rather than any surge of imports," Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, said today. "And that is explained entirely by recessionary conditions in 40 percent of the world economy."
Already Administration officials are taking every opportunity to mention the benefits of low-priced imports, noting that they have helped contain inflation. And there is no question that the world financial crisis, and the glut of commodities, including oil and farm products, has enabled American consumers to save billions of dollars. American industries have also benefited, because the financial crisis has lowered the cost of their materials -- from steel to machine tools to computers -- even while it has dampened their ability to export.
But the worst may yet be ahead. Ian Sheperdson, the chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm in Valhalla, N.Y., said today that "exports of aircraft have already fallen sharply this year." That decline may continue given China's recent announcement that it was suspending the delivery of all new aircraft for two years, while it wrestled with an unexpectedly severe slowdown. Mr. Sheperdson also said that oil prices were now stable, meaning that manufacturers and consumers will likely not get the added economic lift of continued price declines.
The $168.8 billion trade deficit reported today is the highest in American history. The previous high for trade in goods and services came in 1987, when the figure reached $153.3 billion. It declined dramatically, to $31 billion, in 1991, but that was a reflection of the weakness of the American economy in the midst of a recession. The last trade surplus was posted in 1975.
While goods exports fell in 1998, exports of services were up modestly, by about $2 billion. That includes business and financial services, travel, and royalties and license fees. But imports of services rose more than $10 billion. Still, exports accounted for a $79.4 billion surplus.
One of the curious features of today's report was the light it cast on the economies of nations that the International Monetary Fund, with American backing, sought to bail out in late 1997 and 1998. When their currencies were dramatically devalued, many experts projected that their exports to the United States would surge. It never happened.
American imports from South Korea held steady, hovering at $23 billion. But exports to Korea fell dramatically.
Trade deficits, depending on one's point of view, can be either a symbol of national strength or national weakness. If they are driven by the demands of an economy whose factories are running nearly full tilt, then they are arguably the sign of economic health. But over time financing a trade deficit requires borrowing from abroad, and thus can impair the nation's ability to save.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks United States imports vs. exports since July 1997. (Source: Consumer Department)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); RECESSION (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTRONICS (76%); IMPORT PRICES (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); WORLD WAR II (55%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



441 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 
Pressing Serbia on Talks, Clinton Threatens Force
President Clinton warned President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia not to "stonewall" a peace settlement in Kosovo, and he threatened to bomb Serbia if Mr. Milosevic missed a deadline today for concluding peace talks. Mr. Clinton set no clear timetable for military action. A1 

 
A Yugoslav warplane flew a low barrel roll over the headquarters of American cease-fire monitors in Kosovo as they prepared to pull out of Yugoslavia before today's deadline. American and Western diplomatic and aid workers also began to leave Yugoslavia in anticipation of possible air strikes. A6
 
 
The Administration seemed resigned to not having a peace settlement by the deadline. Mr. Milosevic remained publicly defiant and refused to see the chief American negotiator, Christopher R. Hill, who had flown to Belgrade to speak with him. A6
 
U.S. Aided Ocalan Capture
The United States worked for four months to help Turkey arrest Abdullah Ocalan, the Kurdish rebel leader, American officials said. American diplomatic pressure backed by intelligence-gathering helped to pressure Mr. Ocalan to flee a safe haven in Syria, to persuade nation after nation to refuse him sanctuary, and to drive him into a desperate search for a place of refuge, the officials said. A1
 
 
Greece has been nurturing a deep identity crisis since Turkish security forces seized Mr. Ocalan in Kenya, where he had been hiding in the Greek Embassy. A4
 
Kenya Seeks to Calm Investors
The new Finance Minister sought to reassure investors and donors of foreign aid that he would continue on the path of fiscal reform, a day after his corruption-fighting predecessor quit in a Cabinet shake-up. The statements by the new Minister, Yekoyada F. O. Masakhalia, seemed primarily aimed at the I.M.F. Officials of the fund are to visit Kenya to decide whether to reinstate a $205 million package of financial aid. A4
 
Disease Inquiry in Afghanistan
The World Health Organization is trying to get two epidemiologists into an extremely remote part of Afghanistan to diagnose a mysterious disease, United Nations officials said. The officials said the Afghan representative to the world health group, in Geneva, had urgently appealed for help in diagnosing the illness. They said it had infected 2,000 people and killed at least 150, and possibly as many as 700 people. A5
 
Libya Seeks U.N. Assurances
Libya has asked Secretary General Kofi Annan to clarify assurances he has given to try to persuade Libya to turn over two suspects in the bombing of a Pan American flight over Scotland in 1988. United Nations officials and other diplomats have said little about the specifics of Mr. Annan's assurances, which were made on behalf of the United States and Britain, which have been trying for years to arrange a trial. A7
 
World Briefing A7
 
NATIONAL A8-11, 16
 
U.S. Proposes New Rules To Counter Worker Injuries
The Labor Department issued a draft of a plan that would require employers to redesign jobs and alter work stations to accommodate workers who suffer from injuries to the neck, back, arms and hands, and to help prevent such injuries. The Clinton Administration intends to issue the final plan, carrying the force of law, by late next year. A1
 
A First for Women's Colleges
The board of trustees of Smith College, in Northampton, Mass., is expected to approve a $12.5 million plan today that would make Smith, one of the nation's premier private colleges, the first women's college to open an engineering department. Courses would begin this fall. A1
 
Clearing a Name, Belatedly
Henry O. Flipper, the first black to graduate from West Point, in 1877, received a Presidential pardon for a crime that most who have studied the case say he did not commit. A8
 
DNA Links Victim and Suspect
DNA testing of bloody clothes seized from the apartment of John William King, a white man on trial in the dragging death of a black man in Jasper, Tex., showed that the blood came from the victim, a forensics examiner for the F.B.I. testified. A10
 
Ohio Resumes Executions
Ohio carried out its first execution in 36 years, despite protesters' final pleas for clemency. The inmate, Wilford Berry, 36, who was convicted of murdering a former boss in 1989, had sought to be put to death. He was given a lethal injection. A9
 
Abortion Dispute in Louisiana
Louisiana's latest skirmish over abortion, which began on Feb. 5 with an investigative report on television, has moved into the courts, with abortion rights advocates accusing the state of making a politically motivated and unconstitutional effort to put obstacles in the way of women seeking abortions. A11
 
Senators Oppose Cell Ruling
Seven Republican Senators have written to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to protest a ruling that permits Federal financing of research into human embryonic stem cells. A9
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
City Plans to Set Rules For People Seeking Shelter
The Giuliani administration is said to be preparing to make workfare and all other requirements of public assistance a condition of shelter for the 4,600 families and 7,000 single adults in the homeless shelter system. A1
 
Newark School Official Leaving
The superintendent of schools in Newark, Beverly Hall, said she was leaving her job to take an identical post in Atlanta. B1
 
Teacher Layoffs Possible
Nearly 200 New York City high school teachers may be laid off this month, forcing schools to rearrange classes for thousands of students, because of a midyear drop in the student population, officials said. B2
 
Suspect and Missing Girl Found
Arohn Kee, a convicted robber suspected of murdering a teen-age girl and raping two others in East Harlem, was found in a Miami hotel with a 15-year-old Brooklyn girl who had been feared dead, the police said. B3
 
Louima Case Won't Be Moved
The Federal judge in the case of four police officers charged with brutalizing Abner Louima, a Haitian immigrant, rejected a defense request that the trial be moved. B4
 
Advice for Hillary Clinton
President Clinton said his wife should not rush a decision about running for senator. Mrs. Clinton met with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who is vacating the seat. B5
 
NEEDIEST CASES B2
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-18
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES A13
 
Andreas Feininger
A pioneering photographer known both for his Life pictures and his personal images, he was 92. A13
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
U.S. Trade Deficit Balloons
The United States trade deficit soared 53 percent last year, to a record $168.8 billion, as the global financial crisis forced the first decline in American exports in more than a decade. A1
 
Consumer Prices Barely Rise
The Consumer Price Index inched up only one-tenth of 1 percent in January, continuing a pattern of surprisingly mild inflation that has lasted for more than two years. C2
 
Big Italian Telephone Deal
Olivetti, the No. 2 Italian telephone company, said its board would meet tomorrow to discuss a $58 billion bid to acquire its far larger domestic rival, Telecom Italia. If it was carried out, the bid would become the biggest financial transaction ever in the European telecommunications industry. C1
 
Japanese Company Cuts Jobs
The big semiconductor maker NEC announced a broad restructuring that included the elimination of 11,600 jobs, one of the most sweeping labor reductions ever undertaken by a major Japanese company. C1
 
Recovery Effort in Trial
Microsoft and Compaq sought to regain some ground at Microsoft's antitrust trial after a searing Government cross-examination of a Compaq executive the day before. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials:
Toward cleaner S.U.V.'s; Turks, Kurds and the outside world; Dudley Clendinen on the food of life.
 Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B17
TV Listings B18
Crossword B18
Weather A10
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); KENYA (93%); TURKEY (92%); GREECE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SYRIA (79%); SCOTLAND (74%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (52%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); KENYA (93%); TURKEY (92%); GREECE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SYRIA (79%); SCOTLAND (74%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (52%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PEACE PROCESS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



442 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BRIEFS;
Recession in Brazil Is Now Official

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Brazil said yesterday that it fell into recession for the first time in six years as surging interest rates throttled investment and consumer demand.
The country's gross domestic product shrank 1.9 percent in the fourth quarter from the period a year earlier and 1.6 percent from the third quarter. It was the second consecutive quarterly drop -- the standard definition of a recession -- pushing the economy into its first official downturn since 1992. 
 Worse is yet to come for the $471 billion economy, as inflation picks up and consumer spending and investment collapse in the wake of last month's 37 percent currency devaluation.
"It's going to be a deep recession," said Chip Brown, an economist with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company in New York.
Mr. Brown sees the economy shrinking 7.5 percent in the first quarter. A survey by Bloomberg of 10 economists sees the economy's contraction for the year at 4.1 percent, which would be its worst decline since 1990.
The second-half collapse cut economic growth for the year to two-tenths of 1 percent, down from 3.7 percent in 1997.
Brazil's economic slump stems from a run on the currency that drove up interest rates to almost 50 percent last year. The Government eventually succumbed, devaluing the real last month. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); RECESSION (93%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (75%); DEVALUATION (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); 

PERSON: CHIP BROWN (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



443 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2032 words

HEADLINE: Stretching Federal Labor Law Far Into South Pacific

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: SAIPAN, Northern Mariana Islands

 BODY:
Outside in the balmy tropical air, residents with deep tans and hefty girths like to relax beneath the palm trees that shade the long white beaches on this tiny Pacific island.
Inside a nearby garment factory, rows of workers from China perform robotic motions under dull fluorescent lights all day long, sewing, ironing and packing. In fast-paced, mind-numbing sequence, they churn out box after box of shirts and skirts for American retailers like The Gap, Tommy Hilfiger and Sears, Roebuck. 
 Chinese workers have propelled the remarkable success of the garment industry here, pushing sales to nearly $1 billion in 1998. But the industry was hit with a legal bombshell in January when lawyers filed a class-action suit accusing garment makers and major retailers of systematically underpaying and mistreating workers.
The suit says that in dozens of factories in Saipan -- the capital of the Northern Mariana Islands, a United States commonwealth where most Federal laws apply -- workers are forced to work inhuman hours and to live in overcrowded and vermin-infested conditions. It even suggests that the workers are enduring a form of slavery, trapped with impossible debts and with little freedom to leave Saipan, a place where 20,000 American troops stormed ashore in 1944 in one of World War II's major victories.
But interviews with dozens of Chinese workers here tell a story that is not so stark. Chatting easily as they stroll freely in the evening after work, they describe orderly factories and clean dormitories, a view borne out in visits. They say they come to Saipan voluntarily to earn about five times what they made in China, heading home after two years with $6,000 to $10,000 saved.
"I came here to make money, not to travel," said Li Jingshan, 23, who chafes at having to rest two days each weekend. "I want overtime. I want to work every day."
 
A Blend of China And America
Saipan is a curious halfway point between the United States and China, most clearly reflected in the disparity between the ambitions of Chinese workers and the objections of American lawyers. Where lawyers and some Federal officials see a flagrant violation of law, many Chinese see an opportunity to make money. Where lawyers and Federal officials see a careless indifference to policing the garment industry, local officials say they lack the manpower or ability.
Work conditions and pay scales are clearly better than in China, but fall short of American standards. The contracts that workers sign before they leave China include promises -- not to strike, not to discuss problems with outsiders, not to become pregnant -- that are acceptable to Chinese workers. Such contracts are illegal in the United States but their status here is unclear.
Coming from a culture that stresses obedience and respect for authority, where there is little freedom to speak openly in the workplace, many Chinese workers here seem perplexed that a lawsuit has been filed on their behalf.
"How could they be doing it for us?" Wen Xiaoli, 29, said as she shopped for apples and bananas one evening. "They must be doing it for their own reasons."
Lawyers handling the Saipan suit, which seeks more than $1 billion in damages, say their intention is to compensate victims cheated by abusive employers. The lawyers themselves -- led by the firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach, which recently helped win a major settlement from Swiss banks for Holocaust victims -- could earn big fees for a successful suit.
For garment manufacturers, the beauty of Saipan is that it is exempt from quota or duty restrictions that apply to garments made elsewhere in Asia and shipped to the United States. Just a few hours' flight from China, an endless pool of cheap labor, Saipan also enjoys special exemptions from American immigration and labor laws, allowing manufacturers to bring in thousands of Chinese garment workers and pay them Saipan's minimum wage of $3.05 an hour, well below the prevailing $5.15 in America.
Like other garment workers here, Ms. Li works 40 to 60 hours a week, depending on demand, and after her first 40 hours at $3.05 an hour is paid $4.50 an hour for overtime. She says she is saving about $400 a month.
Saipan's garment industry has vaulted from sales of $5.4 million in 1985 to $124 million in 1988 to nearly $1 billion in 1998. There are 15,000 Chinese workers now employed in 36 garment factories here, making clothes that carried labels "Made in the U.S.A." until Federal Government objections forced a switch to "Made in the Northern Mariana Islands, U.S.A."
No one has prospered from Saipan's garment business more than Willie Tan, an ethnic Chinese businessman who runs three factories here that sold $100 million of garments last year. His family-owned Tan Holdings, with interests in shipping, real estate and publishing, took in $240 million worldwide in 1998, and denies all charges in the lawsuit.
"We love Saipan, and we will stay here as long as we can survive," Mr. Tan said in a telephone interview from Cambodia, where he is planning another factory because the labor is even cheaper there. "We love our employees. We never run from our responsibilities."
That may be overstating it. Like their counterparts around the world, many garment factories in Saipan, including Mr. Tan's, rely on unskilled laborers who have been exploited in many cases.
A 1992 court decision in California fined Tan Holdings $9 million for systematically underpaying workers, the largest award ever made in a suit brought by the Labor Department. The court ordered Tan Holdings to install a salary-monitoring system overseen by the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche.
The factory floor at TransAsia, one of three Tan Holdings factories that sells garments to Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger and Liz Claiborne, among others, is more spacious and orderly than many garment factories in lower Manhattan and Brooklyn that are also staffed by recent Chinese immigrants.
As different as Chinese and American expectations are, it is hard to argue with assertions by Federal officials that on American soil, Federal laws should rule. Yet with little local or Federal enforcement, even United States laws are useless.
Local officials, when asked about labor abuses, typically offer a mixture of denial, apology and insistence that things have improved. But their comments betray a flimsy grasp of the situation in the industry they are meant to oversee.
"The problem is, there hasn't been much enforcement of Federal laws," said Mark D. Zacheres, secretary of labor and immigration, adding that he lacks the staff and know-how to effectively police the industry.
Though Mr. Zacheres and other officials say they would like to pass responsibility to the Federal Government, they strongly oppose broader efforts by Washington to expand control over Saipan.
 
New Opposition To Old Exemptions
Officials in the Labor and Interior Departments in Washington now argue that Saipan's special exemptions from minimum-wage and immigration laws have become inappropriate. What irritates many Federal officials is that local authorities pleaded for the exemptions by arguing that a small island of 10,000 residents had to be protected from potential waves of Asian immigrants.
But then those very laws were manipulated to make entry procedures looser rather than tougher, and planeloads of Asian workers started arriving. By 1998, there were 68,000 people on Saipan, and 40,000 were foreign contract workers, mostly Chinese garment workers and Filipinos working in hotels that cater to Japanese tourists.
Today Federal officials express outrage over Saipan's use of its exemptions to make money, duty free, while taking advantage of workers by abusing what the officials see as basic human rights.
"Why should the U.S. suffer a continuing financial loss of $200 million a year in tariffs, a fifth of a billion dollars, for the dubious privilege of explaining to the rest of the world why it tolerates the C.N.M.I. human rights record?" said Allen Stayman, a senior official in the Department of the Interior who oversees the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands.
Worried by the Interior Department's efforts to revoke Saipan's exemptions from Federal law, Saipan's government organized an extensive lobbying campaign. Dozens of Congressmen have been flown out for golf-and-swimming visits to Saipan, where they are told that bureaucrats in Washington want to interfere with the island's fragile economy. Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the Republican whip, has visited Saipan repeatedly and defends its special status.
Mr. Tan, who was born in the Philippines and is now an American citizen, argues that since duty-free status is the main reason garment makers come to Saipan, revoking it would simply force them to go elsewhere. Standard labor costs in Cambodia are just $50 a month per worker, Mr. Tan pointed out, compared with $110 in China and $488 in Saipan.
 
Vulnerable Workers And a List of Abuses
But because they are outside their homeland, Chinese workers are still vulnerable to abuses. Factory floor managers wield enormous power over employees, deciding who gets overtime, and sometimes asking workers for "loans" and other favors in exchange for better hours.
Many workers from China are never told exactly what deductions are made from their paychecks, typically $100 a month for housing in an eight-person-a-room dormitory, and another $100 a month for meals in a cafeteria. In some factories, workers can live outside the barracks, as the dormitories are called, but are still docked for room and board.
Factories are also legally required to pay time-and-a-half for overtime after 40 hours per week. But some workers say that when they fall short of quotas set by a floor manager, they are forced to work extra hours "off the clock."
As serious as these abuses are, lawyers in the class-action suit seem to exaggerate conditions, citing a few worst-case examples as typical.
For instance, Chinese workers are generally required to pay a "recruiting fee" of $1,000 to $3,000 to work here, which is typically borrowed privately in China and then repaid with the first few months' salary. A smaller number of Chinese women who come through unofficial channels often pay as much as $7,000 to $10,000 and end up working as prostitutes in one of the dozens of bars and massage parlors that dot the island. Yet lawyers describe a $7,000 fee as the norm.
Lawyers handling the Saipan suit say that 23 anonymous workers are willing to testify about abusive conditions and systematic underpaying. Two workers, both women, agreed to an interview in a lawyer's office here, on the condition that their names not be made public because they fear recriminations.
The women told compelling tales of unfair working conditions, but the accusations were not as serious as the allegations in the suit. Nor did these women seem representative of the larger Chinese population here, instead appearing to be spirited individuals unsuited to monotonous factory work.
The class-action lawsuit, filed in Federal District Courts here and in Los Angeles, seeks damages from 22 garment makers in Saipan for systematically mistreating and underpaying 50,000 Chinese workers over a period of 10 years. A third, related suit was also filed in state court in San Francisco by the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, known as Unite, and human rights groups.
In a novel legal tactic, the lawyers also invoked racketeering charges against 18 leading American retailers -- including The Gap, Tommy Hilfiger and Sears -- arguing that garment makers and buyers actively conspired to deprive garment workers of proper pay and living conditions. Spokesmen for several defendants have denied the charges and affirmed their commitment to strict fair-labor policies.
As economists point to the growing irrelevance of national boundaries in global trade, Saipan may eventually lose its cachet as an ideal place to make garments. The American quota system, a protectionist relic of earlier days, is already scheduled to be phased out.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A headline on Saturday about working conditions on Saipan misstated the island's location. It is in the western Pacific, north of the Equator, not in the South Pacific.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Federal officials say American companies in Saipan exploit workers who, like these women, are overwhelmingly immigrants from China. But many workers save enough in two years to return home quite well off. (Photographs by Seth Faison/The New York Times); The factories are barren but not awful, as a class-action suit alleges.
 
Graph tracks sales of garments made in Saipan since 1987. (Source: Interior Department)
 
Map of the Pacific Rim shows location of Saipan: Saipan's garment-industry boom relies on immigrant workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%); NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (96%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: SAIPAN, NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (94%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAIPAN; CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%); NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (96%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); SAIPAN, NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (94%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; WAGES AND SALARIES APPAREL MFG (91%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LAWYERS (88%); BEACHES (78%); OVERTIME (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); REFUGEES (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); CLASS ACTIONS (69%); SLAVERY (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH TOMMY HILFIGER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999



444 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 16; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: The Company Store

BYLINE: By Karl E. Meyer; Karl E. Meyer, a former editorial writer at The New York Times, is now completing, with his wife, Shareen Blair Brysac, a history of Western exploration in central Asia.

 BODY:

RAJ
The Making and Unmaking of British India.
By Lawrence James.
Illustrated. 722 pp. New York:
St. Martin's Press. $35.
 "HOW can the mind take hold of such a country?" E. M. Forster marveled in "A Passage to India." In truth, the mind cannot. With a population approaching one billion, most of whom live in as many as 500,000 villages; with 17 major languages and 22,000 identifiable dialects; and with a landscape of similar diversity, India defeats easy synthesis by Western writers, who fall back, often enough, on quoting Forster. 
 Dealing with so wide a canvas was one difficulty facing Lawrence James in "Raj: The Making and Unmaking of British India." Just as problematic was his self-assigned task of rendering fair judgment on two centuries of British dominion, beginning with Robert Clive's victory at Plassey in 1757, and ending with divide-and-quit in 1947, when India and Pakistan stumbled into nationhood. James, the author of "The Rise and Fall of the British Empire," has acquitted himself handsomely. His narrative is readable, his research wide-ranging and his judgments informed and tough-minded.
 The British first came to India, as they did to America, for reasons of commerce, adventure, curiosity and rivalry with other Europeans. Their instrument of dominion was the British East India Company, chartered by Queen Elizabeth I in 1600 and authorized by successive governments to make wars and exercise virtual sovereignty over its territory. From its seat in Calcutta, the company and its audacious generals in the 1700's turned a trading settlement into a vast and lucrative empire.
 In so doing, the company became, James writes, "a sort of Frankenstein's monster." It was answerable only to its shareholders and wielded arbitrary power over a people it initially viewed with contempt. "Indostan was always an absolute despotic government," as Clive, its great early commander, told Parliament in 1772.
 Yet out of cupidity and racial arrogance the Raj (from the Sanskrit, meaning rule) evolved, and in time endowed India with a unifying government, an elite civil service, public works, a uniform penal code and a common language. This happened incrementally, with two big jumps. In 1784, Parliament established a Board of Control with power to endorse or dictate orders to the company, a peculiar joint arrangement that somehow survived until blown apart by an uprising of native troops, the Indian Mutiny, in 1857-58. Thereafter the British government took over directly, under a new imperial doctrine -- the Raj existed for the benefit of its subjects -- carried out by viceroys, most of them well-meaning, and some (Lord Curzon) of outstanding ability.
 It was not all cant. The company in the early 1800's began training a civil service fluent in Indian languages; reform-minded Governors General outlawed suttee, the ritual immolation of widows, and eliminated thuggee, a fanatic sect that murdered travelers. The Raj in its High Victorian mode built on this tradition with ambitious public works -- roads, canals and especially railroads. So vigorously was Western-style education promoted that Calcutta University, with 8,000 students, became the world's largest by 1900. These efforts were propelled by British reformers like Jeremy Bentham and Thomas Macaulay, who viewed India as a kind of testing laboratory for social theory, a theme I wish James had discussed less cursorily.
 Still, the stress was invariably on good government, rarely on self-government. Under the Victorian Raj, Indians could rise only to the middle levels of the civil service. Europeans were the master class, living in privileged cantonments, getting soused in whites-only clubs where servants could be kicked with impunity -- for evidence, consult the index on "racial arrogance of British," with its 14 references, in James's book.
 A common Indian perception was expressed by Nehru in a memorable passage of his memoirs not cited by James. India, Nehru writes, was for many generations like an enormous country house, in which the English were the gentry living in the best parts, with the Indians in the servants' hall: "As in every proper country house there was a fixed hierarchy in the lower regions -- butler, housekeeper, cook, valet, maid, footman, etc. -- and strict precedence was observed among them. But between the upper and lower regions of the house there was, socially and politically, an impassable barrier."
 The best chance to pass that barrier was missed after World War I, when Indians did not get the self-governing dominion status they plausibly believed had been promised. Indians of all faiths and ranks, from Gandhi to maharajahs, gave their blood, treasure and moral support to the Allied cause. But a coalition British Government, under heavy Conservative pressure, would not or could not deliver. The Raj tottered on, yielding here and there on self-government, failing to address creatively the widening gap between Hindus and Muslims. This set the stage for the bitter and bloody partition of India under the last viceroy, Lord Mountbatten, whom James faults for his excessive partiality to Nehru and the Congress Party, at the expense of Jinnah, leader of the Muslim League and founder of Pakistan.
 So what is the final reckoning? James is excellent in detailing how India touched and enlivened the British imagination, from popular culture to the fine arts, and less successful in detailing the economic benefits for both sides. Yet one statistic suggests that if Indians found the Raj insufferable, they did not find it unendurable. At any given time during two centuries there were seldom more than 100,000 Europeans scattered among a population of more than 250 million. After the mutiny, the Raj's subjects, when they resisted alien rule, did so for the most part peacefully.
 Lawrence James puts it well. The end of the Raj marked the final settlement of a bargain: "In return for its moment of greatness on the world stage, the Raj had offered India regeneration on British terms. It had been the most perfect expression of what Britain took to be its duty to humanity as a whole. Its guiding ideals had sprung from the late-18th and early-19th-century Evangelical Enlightenment, which had dreamed of a world transformed for the better by Christianity and reason. The former made little headway in India, but the latter, in the form of Western education and the application of science, did." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RAJ: THE MAKING AND UNMAKING OF BRITISH INDIA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: INDIA (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: KOLKATA, INDIA (78%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH INDIA CORP LTD (92%); COMPANY STORE HOLDINGS INC/SCANDIA DOWN (58%); COMPANY STORE INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%); KOLKATA, INDIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); LITERATURE (75%); LITERATURE GENRES (70%); ARMED FORCES (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); CRIMINAL LAW (61%); 

PERSON: MEYER, KARL E; JAMES, LAWRENCE JAMES G LAWRENCE (92%); ELIZABETH II (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



445 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 26; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: A Nation of Shoppers

BYLINE: By David M. Oshinsky; David M. Oshinsky, a professor of history at Rutgers University, is the author of " 'Worse Than Slavery': Parchman Farm and the Ordeal of Jim Crow Justice."

 BODY:

WHY THE AMERICAN CENTURY?
By Olivier Zunz.
254 pp. Chicago:
The University of Chicago Press. $24.
 WHEN Henry Luce proposed "the American Century" in a February 1941 editorial in Life magazine, he had a very clear purpose in mind. Fascism was steadily advancing in Europe and Asia, yet Americans seemed divided and confused, unwilling to accept their role as citizens of the most powerful nation in the world. Luce expected the United States to intervene militarily, emerge victorious and dominate the postwar global order. It is "our duty and our responsibility," he insisted, to "exert upon the world the full measure of our influence . . . by such means as we see fit." 
 Olivier Zunz takes a rather different view. To his thinking, the American Century was well under way by 1941 as both an ideological concept and a commercial reality. Zunz, a professor of history at the University of Virginia, has written extensively about corporate growth and industrial development in the United States. "Why the American Century?" builds on these themes, emphasizing the role of mass consumption in America's spectacular economic success.
 What made our nation unique, he notes, was its open, fluid approach. Rejecting the French and British models, in which intellectuals and university scientists stood apart from the industrial world, Americans created a vast "institutional matrix of inquiry" in the late 19th century that combined these disparate elites. Wealthy businessmen poured money into new research institutions like Johns Hopkins (1876) and the University of Chicago (1892). Graduate programs churned out chemists and engineers for the thriving industrial laboratories at U.S. Steel, Ford and Du Pont. Social scientists worked alongside advertising executives to create -- and manipulate -- the "average American" through motivational research. The strength of the system, Zunz insists, was not its superior technology, but rather "the ability of American managers to put technological innovations to the service of an organizational revolution promoting mass consumption."
 This institutional matrix included prominent thinkers as well. Progressives like Walter Lippmann and Herbert Croly stressed the importance of material abundance in producing a more comfortable and egalitarian society. They argued that as people earned more and purchased more, class struggle and ethnic tensions would eventually disappear. In a sense the rights and responsibilities of citizenship now extended to shopping -- the duty to buy goods at low prices. Mass consumption not only produced prosperity, it also democratized wealth.
 This process, Zunz demonstrates, gained focus over time. In the early 1900's, Henry Ford revolutionized mass production through the assembly line, which soon produced an automobile every 24 seconds. Selling millions of cars at a small unit of profit allowed Ford to keep prices low and wages high -- the perfect formula for mass consumption. By the late 1920's, however, General Motors began to overtake Ford through a carefully orchestrated campaign that taught consumers to view the automobile as a status symbol, not simply a mode of transportation. Unlike Ford, which marketed a single Model T vehicle, General Motors produced five different cars with five distinct images. As Fortune magazine noted, Chevrolet was for "hoi polloi," Pontiac "the poor but proud," Oldsmobile "the comfortable but discreet," Buick "the striving" and Cadillac "the rich."
 By the 1950's, the virtues of mass consumption seemed beyond dispute. Economists sternly blamed a lack of purchasing power -- or underconsumption -- for the Great Depression of the 1930's, while historians credited the nation's mass production industries with winning World War II. The middle class was huge, content and ever expanding. Participation in the mass market appeared to soften ethnic, cultural and class divisions. It was hard to separate blue-collar from white-collar when both groups stuffed their new homes and garages with the latest consumer goods.
 Zunz is evenhanded in his judgments. He does not endorse shopworn theories about alienation amid plenty or the increasing blandness of American culture. He does remind us, however, that the marketing strategies of mass consumption ignored large chunks of the population, especially minorities, and placed the full domestic burden upon women. In a revealing chapter on the export of American principles to defeated postwar Japan, Zunz also relates the problems that arise when one nation, no matter how powerful or well intentioned, tries to force its cultural values on another. Japan succeeded admirably under American occupation, rebuilding its economic base in accordance with its own traditions, not those initially imposed by the United States.
 "Why the American Century?" is a work of synthesis rather than primary research. The finest examples of this approach, by master historians like Richard Hofstadter, rely on a sweeping thesis, superb writing and a firm grasp of the current debates and literature in the field. Zunz meets two of these criteria. His thesis is both imaginative and well grounded in the appropriate sources. What he lacks is the narrative skill to make his thesis come alive. The book -- fewer than 200 pages of text -- has the leaden feel of a foreign translation. Moreover, its frequent, unexplained references to Clifford Geertz, Claude Levi-Strauss, Herbert Marcuse and a slew of lesser intellectuals typify the academic posturing that keeps so many historians from communicating with the larger public. It is ironic, perhaps, that a book about the impact of elites on mass society should also demonstrate the growing gap between scholarly rhetoric and the language of everyday life. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WHY THE AMERICAN CENTURY? (BOOK)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (82%); F (NYSE) (82%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (88%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HISTORY (78%); LITERATURE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); TEST LABORATORIES (64%); 

PERSON: OSHINSKY, DAVID M (PROF); ZUNZ, OLIVIER OLIVIER ZUNZ (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



446 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 25; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Giving the Truth a Hand

BYLINE: By Edward Rothstein; Edward Rothstein is cultural critic at large for The New York Times and the author of "Emblems of Mind: The Inner Life of Music and Mathematics."

 BODY:

PHILOSOPHY IN THE FLESH
The Embodied Mind and Its Challenge to Western Thought.
By George Lakoff and Mark Johnson.
624 pp. New York:
Basic Books. $30.
 IS life a box of chocolates? Is time a river? Is the mind a machine? Only in the strange world of metaphor, where it doesn't matter that life doesn't melt, time doesn't get you wet, and the mind doesn't need oiling. But that is a powerful world indeed. "The greatest thing by far is to be a master of metaphor," Aristotle proclaimed. "It is the one thing that cannot be learned from others; and it is also a sign of genius." 
 In recent years, many philosophers and cognitive scientists have come to agree, seeing metaphor making as a basic activity of the human mind. In 1980, in "Metaphors We Live By," George Lakoff, a professor of linguistics at the University of California, Berkeley, and Mark Johnson, head of the philosophy department at the University of Oregon, helped show how subtly metaphors permeate our lives, determining how we think and affecting our understanding. We speak of time, for example, as money, capable of being wasted, invested and spent. It may even be impossible to think about time without using metaphor. The metaphors we use are also related to our cultural preconceptions. If we think of the state as a ship being safely steered through a storm, it means we imagine an authoritative leader at the helm, not a democratically activist crew. Metaphors construct our realities. This also means, the authors suggested, that there is no "objective truth." Truth, they wrote (echoing the multicultural clamor of contemporary America), "is necessarily relative to our cultural conceptual systems."
 Now, Lakoff and Johnson have again joined forces, further systematizing their ideas in "Philosophy in the Flesh." Their ambition is massive, their argument important, their success intermittent. In their view we are metaphorical beings who make the world in our image -- the image of the human body. Traditional Western ideas about the disembodied nature of reason and mind, they argue, are almost entirely without foundation. Philosophers have created a view of the mind that is "at odds on every point" with results from cognitive science. An "embodied" philosophy, on the other hand, would show the laws of thought to be metaphorical, not logical; truth would be a metaphorical construction, not an attribute of objective reality. To justify such an "embodied" philosophy, the authors engage in a sort of metaphorical genome project, attempting to delineate the genetic code of human thought.
 They suggest that such early physical sensations as warmth or hunger become reference points, to which the developing mind compares its perceptions, creating basic metaphors that link the world and the body. For example, we speak of having a "close" friend because physical proximity -- one of the earliest sensations of the developing body -- becomes associated with intimacy. Even abstract concepts are described with physical metaphors: difficulties are burdens ("I am weighed down with obligations"), change is motion ("The economy is heading for a fall"). We don't realize the bodily origins of our modes of thought any more than we are conscious of the genetic code.
 In fact, like ambitious sociobiologists who find genetic roots for complex human behaviors, the authors eventually dissect ideas behind such figures as Kant, Descartes, and W. V. O. Quine, arguing that under the highly rational surface of those men's philosophical texts are entwined strands of that primal genetic metaphoric material. The history of philosophy is a history of metaphorical mutation. The only problem, the authors argue, is that many philosophers have fooled themselves into thinking that there is such a thing as disembodied truth, found through the exercise of disembodied reason.
 The genetic metaphor that I am using is both revealing and limited, but that is, after all, the nature of metaphor: it gives something new a shape by comparing it to something familiar. It also determines how we think about the new: it creates boundaries, raises questions. Using a metaphor is almost a philosophical enterprise.
 But something odd happens in the authors' determined quest for primal metaphor. Ordinary speech and thought become more resonant, but philosophical speech and thought are diminished. For example, the authors write that "authority in the moral sphere is modeled on dominance in the physical sphere." Metaphors take that notion farther. Morality might be thought of as an official accounting system, with debts, repayments and a supreme bookkeeper. Other metaphors link moral systems to familial authorities. Kant's theories, the authors argue, are based on the image of the "Strict Father," while the morality of political liberalism is based on the image of the "Nurturant Parent."
This metaphorical analysis, though, doesn't really explain ethical thinking or reveal its premises; it just reduces it to a more elementary system of metaphors. Even metaphor may be more intricate than the authors suggest. Metaphors can reduce perceptions -- "Life is a box of chocolates" certainly does -- or can expand them -- as in "Life is a mortal coil." The crucial difference is the relationship to the world, not to our bodies. But for Lakoff and Johnson, there is no leaving home; the metaphors keep being pulled back to the body.
 In some ways, this philosophy resembles a version of simplistic Freudianism, in which varied experiences are treated as metaphorical transformations of primal relationships. The authors may be even more restrictive, because they do not fully accept the ability of an observer to say anything "objective" about the world: there is no there there. Large-scale agreements on the nature of reality exist, they propose, only because we all share bodily experiences that provide "general constraints" on how we think. "There will be an enormous range of shared 'truths,' " but there is no "absolute objective truth." The authors prefer to speak of "apt" metaphors, without explaining how important it is that "aptness" depend on the world and not just on our bodies.
 For if similar bodily experience were the main criterion for shared metaphors, we would be doomed to private languages that only coincidentally overlapped. Men would really be from Mars and women from Venus, and we would all be cultivating our metaphors in isolation, hoping to find companion bodies that precisely replicated our own. The authors seem averse to accepting a more congenial circumstance: our metaphor-racked souls develop not just out of bodily experience but out of shared perceptions of a sensible world outside our bodies. They dismiss belief in an interpretable world as a "folk theory," but their post-modern dismissal may be even more of a "folk theory."
 Here is an apt metaphor: A musical composition exists in some objective form, as a score. In listening or playing, we attempt to make sense of it, attending to transformations and patterns, discerning its structure. Even a piece from an alien culture, which may seem bewildering at first, manages to teach itself, revealing its network of internal references and relations.
 Making sense of music is partly a metaphorical act, because it involves our seeing how one musical event is transformed into another -- the archetypal act of metaphor. Metaphorical interpretation also expands outward. A composition, for example, creates a physical "metaphor" in the listener's body, a series of accents and relaxations, expectations and satisfactions. This pattern might also be interpreted as a metaphorical model for another experience -- a primitive sacrificial dance, perhaps, or a dramatization of an opium dream. Or, more abstractly, the pattern may become a metaphor for the conflicts between the individual and a society, or a statement about brotherhood or reason or war. The possibilities are unlimited but -- and this is crucial -- they are not arbitrary. A truth exists, to which they must answer as they attempt to make sense of the music's arguments and internal life.
 Couldn't this also be how we make sense of the world? We begin with our bodily experience, then create ever more intricate metaphors. But those metaphors are tested by the world, not just by our bodies. They have to "fit." Some are distortions. Some are trivial. Some resonate. And a few go even farther: they might even be true.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Illustration (John Nickle)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PHILOSOPHY IN THE FLESH (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); PHILOSOPHY (90%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); GENOMICS (60%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD; LAKOFF, GEORGE; JOHNSON, MARK GEORGE LAKOFF (75%); MARK JOHNSON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



447 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 39; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7472 words

HEADLINE: Farewell Britannia;
There Will Always Be an England

BYLINE: By Andrew Sullivan; Andrew Sullivan is a contributing writer for the magazine. His last article, "What We Look Up To Now," appeared in November.

 BODY:
I didn't fully realize it growing up but, in its way, my hometown was a kind of ground zero for Englishness. Almost a national synonym for middle-class ennui, East Grinstead was the last stop on a railway line south of London, the first place outside the metropolis that wasn't actually metropolitan, a welter of disappointment and understatement and yet also of a kind of pride. The inhabitants of a small town in New Jersey will have an idea of what I mean, except East Grinstead had its roots in Anglo-Saxon times and always wore its modernity with a shrug.
 When I grew up, it was a commuter-belt development of 20,000 but also, still, a place of its own. Its Victorian railway station and Elizabethan main street, its unique mix of local butchers, bakers, hardware stores and bookshops, the vegetable allotments and rugby pitches, the St. Swithun's church spire punctuating the skyline, the great swaths of bluebells that turned the neighboring woodlands into a shock of violet in the springtime -- they made it a place in itself, a place to stay and grow up in, a place that knew itself and knew where it stood. 
 A British pop song of the 1980's expresses how I feel walking around the place today, 15 years after I left Britain for the United States: "This must be the place I waited years to leave." But it is a place I also almost fail to recognize. The meadows I played in as a boy are now covered with crowds of pseudocottages built for the burgeoning middle class. The old railway station has been dismantled and replaced by a concrete terminus. Its parking lot is now shared with the new de facto town center: a cavernous aircraft hangar of a supermarket, which has displaced almost every local shop in the town. The main street is now a ghostly assortment of real-estate offices and charity bookshops, banks and mortgage companies. The main road now leads swiftly onto the new M25, the freeway that circles London. Trucks with Belgian and Italian license plates clog the artery, on their way to Gatwick Airport, the Channel Tunnel or farther -- to London, Oxford, Reading and, by train, to Paris and Brussels.
The house I grew up in, after 34 years, is finally occupied by another family. My parents have built a grand new, American-style retirement home a mere hundred yards down the street. And in the long evening of an English winter, I click past dozens of German cable channels to watch "South Park" and "Larry King," before logging on to my parents' AOL account to check my E-mail. My sister has dubbed the house South Fork. And my toddler niece and nephew bring their Disney toys to play in it.
 This wasn't quite the script I had imagined when I left in 1984. Every immigrant to America likes to think of his home country as a repository of the old and the quaint, of unchanging stability and backward thinking. It is the vanity of immigration, and in a deeper sense, the vanity of America itself. So it is somewhat of an adjustment to find the suburban England I had once seen as a rickety edifice of nostalgia, class and passivity become the kind of striving, anonymous exurb I once associated with America, and to feel the still-raw unease that such a transformation has clearly brought about.
 By transformation, I don't mean merely the shift that has occurred everywhere the global economy has been allowed to do its work unchecked. And I don't mean the changes that happen with every hometown between remembered adolescence and adulthood. I mean something a little deeper, something alien to the American experience, which is why perhaps it has gone largely unnoticed in this country. I mean the loss of national identity itself, the unraveling of a sense of nationhood and settled way of life that was once almost definitional of the stolid British. For in a way perhaps invisible to outsiders and too gradual for insiders to fully acknowledge, the combined forces of globalization, political reform and the end of the cold war have swept through Britain in the last two decades with a force unequaled in any other country in the Western world.
 As the century ends, it is possible, I think, to talk about the abolition of Britain without the risk of hyperbole. The United Kingdom's cultural and social identity has been altered beyond any recent prediction. Its very geographical boundaries are being redrawn. Its basic Constitution is being gutted and reconceived. Its monarchy has been reinvented. Half its Parliament is under the ax. Its voting system is about to be altered. Its currency may well soon be abandoned. And its role in the world at large is in radical flux. The implications for Britain's closest ally, the United States, are far from trifling.
 Some of this change was organic and inevitable. But much of it is also the legacy of three remarkable Prime Ministers, who have successively managed in very different ways and with very different styles to revolutionize Britain's economy, society and Constitution -- in a way that promises to free the people of the island from the past that long threatened to strangle them.
It is part of the genius of Britain's undemocratic democracy that this transformation has taken place with such speed and thoroughness. In the vastness of America, a single President can do only so much. He is hampered by the checks of the Constitution and the power of the states. He has a limited time in office. But a British Prime Minister commands a largely unitary state with almost unchecked power for an indefinite tenure. With a solid majority in Parliament, she can do almost anything, and come from almost anywhere. In retrospect, Margaret Thatcher showed both the power and the limits of that position.
 The results of her reign of willful uplift are now familiar. Britain, unlike her European partners, was turned from a social democracy into a market economy just in time for the gale of globalization. Union power was decimated; Government-owned businesses were privatized in one of the largest shifts in property since the Reformation; corporate and personal income taxes were simplified and cut; exchange controls were lifted; unemployment was allowed temporarily to soar; whole industries, like coal and steel, were allowed to wither and die before re-emerging as efficient private enterprises; the public health and education services were subjected to a financial scrutiny they had previously avoided.
 It is a myth that Thatcher ended the British welfare state. She merely restrained it and allowed an ebullient private sector to grow disproportionately alongside. But it is not a myth that she single-handedly imposed a new order upon an old society. She attacked the socialism of the working class and the Toryism of the upper. She promoted the market economy as not simply the only means of economic growth but also as the very fabric of the country she ruled. "There is no such thing as society," she once declared. And she acted as if there weren't.
 But while Thatcher's revolution transformed the structure of society and the economy, it left the institutions of Government largely intact. Her political and constitutional instincts were as archaic as her economic and social policies were radical. She still curtsied to the Queen; she revered the military; her patriotism was forged by the experience of the Second World War, which lingered in her distrust of Germany and her idiosyncratic love affair with the United States. She was a stickler for parliamentary protocol and believed passionately in the union with Northern Ireland. She treated Scotland with thinly veiled contempt, an attitude the Scots were glad to return in equal measure. Despite a pledge to extend freedom, she amassed power in the central Government, stripping London of self-government and trying to impose a national poll tax. Her finest hour was sending battleships to reconquer a tiny outpost of Empire in the South Atlantic. Her suspicions of the European Union eventually grew to such an overwrought pitch that she was cruelly dispatched by a Tory cabal.
 In social matters, she also seemed an anachronism. Uncomfortable with women, appalled by homosexuals, utterly without connection to Britain's racial minorities, she seemed increasingly divorced from the dynamic, multicultural country she helped spawn. She was, in other words, a strutting contradiction: a modernizing traditionalist, a radical reactionary. And her replacement was, as replacements often are, her opposite: a small man of singular coherence.
 There can be few more reviled figures in British political history than John Major. He was selected as Thatcher's replacement because he was the least divisive figure in a Conservative Party that was swiftly degenerating into vicious, internecine warfare over the question of Britain's relations with the European Union. The working-class son of a manufacturer of concrete garden gnomes, he had no college education and made his first trip to the United States a year before he became Prime Minister. And he spent much of his six-year tenure in office trying to bridge the unbridgeable.
 His assigned task was to pursue Thatcherite reform while softening its rough edges, to soothe relations with the European Union while appeasing his fellow Tory Europhobes and to boost public services while lowering taxes and stabilizing the currency in a steep recession. In all this, it has to be said, he failed spectacularly. The media hounded his indecision and ambivalence, while the Tory Party self-destructed in a mess of division and sleaze. In an early debacle, the pound sterling was bounced out of the European Union's exchange rate mechanism -- in one trading session wrecking the Tory reputation for economic competence.
 After a brief period of support, the public grew to wince almost instinctively at Major's fathomless grayness, his whiny lower-middle class accent and his often fractious, odious colleagues. An increasingly diverse and feisty country looked at him and saw a man of the colorless, passive English past: a British Calvin Coolidge of the 1990's. Thatcher had bequeathed him, as she later pointed out to friends, a Tory majority in the House of Commons of 100. By the time Major resigned as Tory leader, Labor had a majority of 179.
 And yet it is no exaggeration to say that without Major, the current transformation of Britain would never have occurred. He was the indispensable cementer of deep change, the mortar between the bricks of Thatcher and Blair. Thatcher, after all, had never been able to establish a deep acceptance of her economic reforms. She still summoned in her opponents the kind of visceral hatred that Bill Clinton does in his, and she never commanded even a fraction of Clinton's approval ratings.
 But Major turned grudging respect for Thatcher's accomplishments into exhausted acceptance. For however one might squirm at Major or condescend to him, it was hard to hate him. He exuded the middle-English trait of "good blokeness." He had endurance. Previous Prime Ministers, like Harold Macmillan, had affected a pose of English absent-mindedness, conveying a sense that they would rather be reading a Jane Austen novel than dealing with social security reform. But Major needed no affectation to play the part. On the day of his horrendous defeat in 1997, he left No. 10 Downing Street at lunchtime and spent the afternoon watching cricket. It was not a photo opportunity, and everyone knew it. In stark contrast to his successor, he was remarkably unspun. And in that modest, quiet posture, he made the Thatcher revolution irreversible.
 Under Major, the economy grew steadily, inflation was subdued, public spending muted and the most difficult reforms of the public sector were accomplished. The patchy prosperity of the Thatcher era began to seep into a deeper embourgeoisement of Britain. The North caught up with the once-booming South; the middle class expanded from 30 percent of the British population in 1979 to more than 50 percent by the end of the 1990's. Major's reform of pensions insured that Britain remains among the better prepared among developed nations for the social security crisis of the next century. He started a national lottery that began funneling billions of pounds into the arts, sports and culture. Moreover, Major temporarily defused the nettlesome question of Britain's place in European integration. He did so by negotiating an opt-out for Britain from the new euro currency while retaining Britain's full trading relationship with its European partners. His fellow Tories were apoplectic at the fudge. History will be less severe.
 But Major's most important legacy was surely Tony Blair. Without Major, no Blair -- it's as simple as that. In 1992, with scarcely a year of premiership under his belt, John Major faced a general election. His Labor opponent, Neil Kinnock, was a man of the left who had put his party through cosmetic, but not fundamental, ideological surgery. Almost no serious commentator gave Major a chance after 13 years of divisive Conservative rule. But by a combination of doggedness on Major's part and skepticism of Labor among Britain's new middle class, the Tories stunned the experts by winning a record fourth term.
 Without that victory, it would have been far easier for an unreconstructed Labor Party to have chipped away at much of the Thatcher legacy. And without that victory, a Labor leader like Tony Blair, who carried through a complete overhaul of his party's principles, would have taken perhaps another generation to emerge, if at all. But Major's lightweight steeliness made it possible both for Thatcherism to endure and for Labor to revive. He was the midwife to the revolution that is now taking place, although it would embarrass both him and Blair to acknowledge it.
Walk through central London today and it is sometimes hard to believe it is the capital of Britain. Within a few blocks, you hear Arabic and Italian, French and Spanish, Urdu and German. Australian accents are almost as common as American ones. The distinct class dialects I remember from my youth -- the high vowels of the aristocracy; the rough, broad edges of cockney; the awkward flatness of middle England -- are far less distinct. Even the BBC is a cacophony of regional twang, with Scottish brogue and Welsh lilt more common than the plummy Queen's English of my teens.
 Elsewhere, there is a kind of sonorous merging, the rise of a new accent that seems to have absorbed East End vowels with a Southern English blandness. I'd never heard the accent before. It is classless but at the same time fashionably down-market. Tony Blair's voice captures it: he swings in one sentence from solid English propriety to sudden proletarian slang. Call it lower Blair: the new England wired into the very vocal cords. It is best absorbed while listening to a black or Asian Briton. When I was young, most immigrants still retained a Caribbean lilt or Pakistani staccato. Now they reflect lower Blair or the English region they come from.
 Britishness was once a universally recognizable characteristic: diffident, self-effacing, stoic, decent, white, male. It was bound up, as George Orwell put it less than 60 years ago, with "the to-and-fro of the lorries on the Great North Road, the queues outside the Labor Exchanges, the rattle of pintables in the Soho pubs, the old maids biking to Holy Communion through the mists of the autumn morning." It had something to do with "suet puddings and . . . red pillar-boxes."
 Think of what Britain once meant and a handful of cliches come to mind. Bad food. Crooked teeth. Good manners. Pragmatism. Free speech. Theater. Class. Monarchy. Poor heating. Old couches with the stuffing coming out. Sexual awkwardness. Sentimentality toward animals. Stoicism. Marmite. Looking at this list today, only a handful survive: the theater, free speech and the pet fixation. Even the latest ad campaign for Marmite, the odious brown sauce made out of vegetable extract, ironizes: Love it or hate it. Indeed, a modern list of Britishness would look altogether different. Designer furniture. Misogyny. Public relations. Sarcasm. Excessive drinking. Fast driving. Celebrity. Beaujolais nouveau. Cell phones. Tabloids. Sexual ease.
 The latter is perhaps the most surprising. Stroll through Soho, where as a teen-ager I peeked into dirty bookstores and video booths, titillated by the clammy desire that was inextricable from English sexual shame. Now, most of the cheap sex industry has gone, and the streets pulse with a throng of Italian and French immigrants and a freshly visible gay subculture. Outdoor cafes serve cappuccinos, and shaved homo-punks chatter with preppy young media types. Gay bars are everywhere, but then straight bars are everywhere, too. Night life begins at 2 A.M. and continues past dawn -- every day of the week. Unlike those in America, after-hours gay bars allow, indeed facilitate, sexual activity on the premises.
 To add to the tolerance, it was recently estimated that on an average weekend in Britain, some three million tablets of ecstasy are sold. The techno-rave culture of the British teen-ager in the 1990's is a product of a mass drug culture, which the authorities have only recently begun to constrain. There is an economic reason for this. The music this culture has spawned is a major export and money-earner, from Berlin to Los Angeles. But what's striking is not that this culture exists -- it's a feature, to a lesser extent, of American youth culture as well. What is striking is how banal it now seems to the English, who appear to have abandoned in a single generation a habit of awkwardness for an assumption of hedonism.
Old Britishness, of course, endures. while I was there, the morning-radio news show devoted 10 minutes to a new study about how best to dunk a biscuit in a cup of tea. Local television news led with a story not of the latest gang murder but of six decapitated cats found in a London suburb. A friend stopped me tipping in a pub, as if I had offended some inviolable social code: "Don't tip the barman, mate. It's not your fault if he's got a crap job." I ate fish and chips out of a newspaper at 2 A.M. and indulged my taste for suet pudding. It seemed psychologically impossible to evoke a response to the question, "How are you?" that was more enthusiastic than, "Not too bad." But everywhere the new intercepted the old: the Seattle Coffee bar next to the pub, the gleaming new gym next to the tube station, the Millennium Dome near the old Docklands, the banks of female deputies behind Tony Blair in the House of Commons.
 Perhaps most striking is the racial integration. When I left Britain, London was still reeling from race riots in Brixton and from a sense that the island could not possibly absorb all the immigrants who were arriving without a racial conflagration. But oddly enough that hasn't happened. There is still racism, of course, and evidence of unequal police treatment and employment discrimination. Parliament, the armed forces and the police force remain disturbingly white. But compared with the racial tension I feel every day in Washington, the ethnic mix in London seems remarkably at ease. Some of this is because of the still-tiny percentage of the British population that is nonwhite -- roughly 5 percent (in some parts of London that proportion can rise to 45 percent, but a passive civility still seems to predominate). And part is because of the diversity of the racial mix. The wide cultural differences between South Asian and Caribbean immigrants, for example, has made it difficult for hostility to coalesce along crude racial stereotypes.
 But none of this fully accounts for the racial calm. Perhaps it's because, unlike the situation in the 1970's, almost half of nonwhite Britons are now born in the country and are disproportionately young. Perhaps it's because urban Britain itself has become more generally cosmopolitan. For more than a decade, European Union nationals have had an automatic right to live and work in Britain. With economic growth in that period roughly twice the European average and with the British unemployment rate roughly half the European average, the influx has been palpable and continues. More foreign E.U. nationals live and work in London than in any other European city. "Welcome to Euroland!" an old friend guffawed, with only a trace of irony, as he ordered a claret in a West End restaurant. London may not have adopted the euro, but it reflects a truly European culture more than any capital on the Continent.
There is no doubt that the free market has been the catalyst for this cosmopolitanism. To Margaret Thatcher's horror, the market she worshiped has unraveled the England she loved. By exposing Britain to the world economy, by deregulating the labor market and by lowering corporate taxation, the Tories also encouraged a massive influx of foreign capital and investment.
 Foreign companies based in Britain account for 40 percent of British exports. The automobile industry, pioneered by such British names as Rover, Morris and Leyland, has now become a manufacturing plant for Japanese and Korean multinationals producing for European markets. Rolls-Royce is now a German-owned company. American multinationals and media companies also saturate the British market, with all the cultural baggage that implies.
 Or take a smaller example of the interaction between markets and culture. While the famous London black cabs still seem dominated by pasty-faced cockneys, hundreds of barely regulated minicabs ferry people across London through the night, staffed mainly by Asian and Caribbean immigrants. As Britain has grown at the whim of the market, its culture has inexorably changed.
 A deregulated, deunionized media sector has also given the new Britain a means to express and understand itself better -- and so accelerate the cultural change. When I left England in the early 1980's, there were four regulated television channels and five or six radio stations. The BBC held a virtual monopoly on the tone of Britishness: a sometimes soothing, often excellent, but also stifling echo chamber for the nation's elites. Now every house seems wired, and personal computer ownership is by far the highest in Europe.
 As a boy, I walked home from school each night through a public housing project, where at election times I remember seeing red Labor Party posters in every window. Today, every house is owner-occupied, and there's a Murdoch-subsidized satellite dish where the Labor poster used to be. Literally hundreds of channels are poured into these homes, from sources as diverse as Rome and New York.
 Or take the national sport of soccer. When I left England, it was almost a tribal expression of regional loyalty, a cohort of white men on sacred ground surrounded by thousands of working-class supporters who were prone to sudden outbursts of stunning brutality. Now, football is a sprawling branch of the entertainment industry. The teams and even the leagues have corporate sponsorship, and iconic franchises like Manchester United and Arsenal are full of free-agent French, Italian and German players. Media moguls like Rupert Murdoch compete to buy teams, and niche cable television sells the package in slices to the European market. More than any other industry, perhaps, soccer shows the unique dynamic that has both Europeanized and Americanized Britain at the same time. In football, it was only the introduction of American-style sports economics that thoroughly Europeanized the sport.
 In a couple of weeks, I met a handful of old college friends. One, from a Dutch family, used to be a chorister in my Oxford College choir. He now works for Deutsche Bank and lives in Soho; we ate lunch in his new London club and talked of our favorite "Simpsons" episodes. Another now edits nonfiction for Penguin books and has just returned from six years in New York. One more conducts policy research at the Tory Party's central office, after spending several years in Chicago.
 My best friend from college days, Niall Ferguson, is now a historian who wrote his dissertation on the German inflation of the 1920's and has just completed a massive history of the Rothschilds. A new friend, Julia Hobsbawm, is tired of being trotted out as an emblem of the new Britain, but she is one, so I'll trot her out. The daughter of the Marxist historian Eric Hobsbawm, she now runs one of the hottest young public relations companies in London, with close ties to New Labor. As she breast-fed her newborn son in a North London snack bar, she spoke longingly of New York and Edinburgh and confided increasing sympathy with the Tories.
 While in London, I also befriended a young Australian actor whose parents are Lebanese and who has just married an American. He strode the streets of the West End as if it were truly home. These people are not typical of anything, of course. They are merely my friends. But their eclectic internationalism is far more conspicuous than their Britishness. And they are as much a part of their England as bowler-hatted bankers and flat-voweled dockworkers once were of theirs.
 In fact, I think it is only through this cosmopolitan prism that the phenomenon of Diana Spencer can in retrospect be understood. Under 18 years of Tory Government, this new society took shape and heft, but it could find no viable political symbol or expression. The Tories were as culturally inept as they were economically successful; they created the substance of the new country but they couldn't articulate it.
 Diana, in contrast, reflected the new reality. Like many of her English generation, she was an individualist trapped in an anachronism. She was a creature of the media, like her peers; she was at ease in a world of Hollywood movie culture, Mediterranean vacations and sexual honesty. She seemed genuinely able to communicate with women and gay men, with racial minorities and middle England. In her pursuit of pleasure, even to the point of having an Arab boyfriend, she saw no cultural boundaries and felt constrained by no traditional mores. She was, for a while, the only figure or institution truly reflective of a country that had changed beyond recognition but had still found no way to symbolize the change.
 So her death prompted a shock wave of fear that this new cultural dawn could suddenly be a dusk. In the outpouring of their garish grief, the British were almost wantonly telling themselves and the world that they were different for good and that what Diana represented in their unconscious was something that they had no intention of losing with her. As indeed they haven't. Which is why their self-confidence is now secure enough that they can move on with scarcely a backward glance at the late, immortalized "people's princess."
 Tony Blair came up with that phrase to describe Diana and, in a curious way, it was the moment he truly became Prime Minister. He got it. His semi-impromptu words on that August morning when England woke to the news of the crash in Paris cemented his hold on the country as surely as Ronald Reagan's calm poetry after the shuttle Challenger disaster helped strengthen his bond with Americans.
 Some Tories complained that he was trying to make political capital out of a tragedy, but that was simply an expression of their complete estrangement from the country they had ruled for so long. Their new young leader, William Hague, made such a stilted formal statement of regret that it probably guaranteed his failure to connect in any way with British voters for good. More than a year later, despite many mishaps, Labor's lead over the opposition in the opinion polls is still over 20 percentage points. And its hold is as much cultural as political.
 When Blair's reconstructed Labor Party came to power in May 1997, all eyes searched for evidence that it would backtrack on Thatcherism's market economics. Blair himself had promised a sweeping end to alleged Tory neglect of the public services -- particularly health and education -- but he had also won election by convincing middle England that he would not return to the tax-and-spend policies of the Labor past. In this, of course, he echoed his mentor in Washington. And like Clinton's, his first moments in office presented him with a stark choice. Confronted by nervous bond markets, Clinton had junked his planned economic stimulus package in favor of deficit reduction and only a minor nudge upwards in taxation. Blair, with the benefit of hindsight, was able to be more proactive.
 Within days of coming to power, he announced that the Bank of England, which had always been subject to direct political control, would now be granted independence along the same lines as the American Fed. Its mission would be to control inflation. He also announced that he would stick to the spending plans of the Major Government for the next two years. It would be hard to think of a more conservative overture to the New Labor symphony. For good measure, Blair cut corporation taxes even further than the Tories had. This year, Germany's combined income, corporate and social security taxes are some 40 percent higher than Britain's. France's tax burden is 80 percent greater. By sticking to this low-tax regime, indeed celebrating it, Blair declared that his was not going to be a backward Clintonite co-optation of the right. It was a declaration of a new kind of middle-class, left-of-center Government.
 But in retrospect, this focus on economics missed the point. Blair rightly saw that the old left-right paradigm in economics was dead. He harbored no belief that government knew better than industry how to invest or manage a business. He had long since lost faith in the sclerotic European social-democratic model, which had insured that the Continent had produced an average 11 percent unemployment rate, compared with Britain's 6 percent. And he knew that low tax rates were one of Britain's few competitive advantages in the world economy. To be sure, he made some small Clintonite changes: increasing the minimum wage, tinkering with welfare reform, setting up the equivalent of Clinton's earned income tax credit to benefit the working poor. All were worthy ameliorations of Thatcherism -- but no reversal.
 Blair's real radicalism turned out to be constitutional. He saw the decrepitude of Britain's constitutional order and embarked on perhaps the most far-reaching series of reforms ever tried by a modern British Government. If Thatcher and Major had dissolved the economic and social glue that had made Britain Britain, Blair set out to dismantle its deepest constitutional identity. The Bank of England was the first sign.
 Since then, the sheer scope of Blair's proposals is a little hard to absorb, let alone convey. In American terms, it is simply inconceivable. Imagine if a new President proposed independence for Texas and Florida, 300 new Senate seats, abandonment of the dollar as currency in favor of the peso, adoption of proportional representation in Congressional seats and the abolition of the President's ceremonial role as Commander in Chief. This is only a rough analogy, but it captures the fundamental reform Blair is pushing. In America, of course, the Constitution would prevent or drastically impede such radicalism. In Britain, where the Constitution is largely what the parliamentary majority says it is, anything can happen and probably will.
 To begin with, Blair is proposing what amounts to the end of the unitary government of the United Kingdom. Scotland's new Parliament will be elected in May, a symbol of self-government not known since the 16th century. In the referendum that sanctioned it, 74 percent of Scots voted in favor. More significant, a full 64 percent supported the notion that such a Parliament should have tax-raising powers, essentially replacing Westminster.
 Blair has allowed the Scottish Parliament the leeway to lower or raise the British rate of income tax by only 3 percentage points. But the direction is clear enough. Blair clearly believed that by devolving some power to Scotland he would defuse the independence movement. Instead, the opposite could happen. The latest polls suggest that in the new Edinburgh Parliament the largest single party may well be the Scottish Nationalists, who see the new Parliament as a way station to full independence. Of the dozens of conversations I had in London about the future of the United Kingdom, literally no one I spoke with believed that Scotland would be a part of Britain in 10 years' time.
 The Welsh, too, voted in favor of their own assembly, which they will also elect in May, although separatism there is not as intense. The Good Friday agreement in Northern Ireland presages a slow dissolution of London's rule in Ulster. The third de facto country in the island -- greater London -- will finally elect its own mayor. What Blair has ushered in, in other words, may well turn out to be a return to a political Constitution last seen in the late Middle Ages: an English state with an almost independent European metropolis on the Thames, a feisty neighbor to its north and a half-heartedly controlled province to its west.
 The corollary to Welsh and Scottish nationalism, of course, is English nationalism. The neophyte Parliaments in Edinburgh and Cardiff beg the question of why there are is no English equivalent. There will still be Scottish M.P.'s in Westminster. Why should Scots have a say in how the English are taxed and the English have no say in the reverse? The paradox is made more acute by the prominence of Scots in the Labor Cabinet: if you include Blair, who was educated in Scotland, the three top Government officials are Scottish, in a country where the English outnumber the Scots by 10 to 1.
 The Government has batted these objections away, but the signs of the inevitable are everywhere. When I left for America, the clear, simple symbol of England was the Union Jack. It is now increasingly the bare emblem of St. George: a red cross on a white background. You see it in soccer stadiums and emblazoned into the skulls of East End skinheads. In 1995, the biggest greeting-card distributor introduced a card to celebrate St. George's Day on April 23. Within two years, as the journalist Jeremy Paxman pointed out, the number of cards sold had grown to 50,000.
 The repercussions of this are a little hard to envisage. They extend from the possibility of a bitter, if peaceful, internal split-up -- a kind of Yugoslavia with cups of tea -- to more far-reaching questions like Britain's place in the United Nations Security Council. Britain's seat even now is somewhat indefensible, given its economic weight compared with Germany and Japan's. But will England deserve a seat -- with a population of merely 49 million, on barely two-thirds of a small island? No one seems to know.
 To Americans, this might seem a somewhat recondite development, but of course it isn't. Britain, after all, is still the most reliable, and often sole, ally of the United States. From the cold war to the gulf war and Bosnia, Britain has been both an unsinkable aircraft carrier for American military reach in Europe and a vital echo in international debates. If Britain largely ceases to exist as it has in the past -- either by being absorbed into the European Union or itself dissolving into smaller pieces of real estate -- the consequences for America could be substantial. But so far Washington seems as blithely insouciant about these changes as London.
 Just as blithely, Blair is also set to change Britain's second chamber beyond recognition. In 1940, when George Orwell envisaged a future socialist government, he saw its first objective as the abolition of the House of Lords. Sixty years later, it's finally happening. This year, more than 600 of 752 hereditary peers -- the descendants of royal mistresses and ancient landowners, among others -- will be fired from the upper chamber. A parliamentary commission will report within the next 10 months on who will replace them, what the new chamber will be called and how its members will be elected or appointed. What the powers of the new chamber will be no one knows. A less radical Government might have proposed an actual alternative to a second chamber before essentially abolishing it. Or even invited a lengthy national debate. Not this one.
 Blair, then, is just as much a paradox as Thatcher. Watching him in the Commons, you see a tousled, somewhat prissy figure, uncomfortably unable to control the rambunctious deputies around him. But you are also aware of his meticulous preparation, command of detail and desire to please. Outside, his merciless spin operation is often guilty of overkill, wary of even the smallest scandal, demanding in one instance that a minister publicly choose between his wife and his mistress in order to win the spin cycle for the nightly news. In a stroke of genius, the satirical magazine Private Eye portrays him as a trendy young vicar in a small suburban church, whose beaming self-righteousness is tempered by a ferocious control of the timing of choir practice. His zeal is only marginally undercut by his sincerity.
 And there are many in London who see his liberal constitutionalism as a means not to lose control but to retain it. By abolishing the Lords, after all, Blair also abolishes a built-in Tory majority in the second chamber. And by changing the voting system, as Blair is now proposing, he goes one step further. Britain has always had the American system of single-member districts, awarded to the candidate who secures the most votes. This has often served to minimize the strength of small and third parties and allowed small electoral swings to generate large majorities in the House of Commons.
 In 1997, for example, Labor won 43 percent of the vote but 63 percent of the seats in the House of Commons. Britain's third party, the left-of-center Liberal Democrats, won 17 percent of the vote but a mere 7 percent of the seats. The benefit is strong single-party government without the fractious parliamentarism of, say, Israel, or the consensual torpor of Germany. But Blair's commission on electoral reform has already backed a shift to a European model, one that would essentially end one-party rule in Britain for good and shift power to exactly the moderate left-of-center politics Blair favors. In this way, the electoral system would do for Blair what Major did for Thatcher. It would make his constitutional revolution irreversible. And it would permanently change Britain from an American-style democracy to a European one. The system that was able -- however unfairly -- to throw up a Disraeli, Churchill or Thatcher will in the future be reduced to consensus products like a Chamberlain or a Wilson.
 Adoption of the euro has been the more contentious battle. It has almost destroyed the Conservative Party, as free trade did in the 19th century, and divides Britain's elites as deeply as the culture war divides America's. Adoption of the euro has come to symbolize the ambivalence with which the British, if that is still a meaningful term, have come to abandon their nationhood. The country, in any case, has already unraveled in more amorphous ways. But the adoption of a foreign currency, the abolition of the English "quid," the handing over of the power of money itself to a bank in Frankfurt, has stuck quite understandably in the collective English throat. It has become a rallying cry for all those suddenly fearful of the symbolic end of a nation that has, in truth, already ended. It is a symbol of a reality the English have accepted but not yet acknowledged. Blair, in a rare cautious mood, has promised a national referendum on the issue -- after the next election. He is canny enough not to commit political capital to a policy that the elites war over, the tabloids loathe and middle England fears.
"Home is so sad," the English poet Philip Larkin once wrote, and for the first 20 years of my life, I knew what he meant. Everyone did. Loss, after all, is the central theme of modern Britain: loss of empire, loss of power, loss of grandeur, loss of the comfort of the past. When Churchill rallied his countrymen to the immense task of 1940 by calling the Battle of Britain his nation's "finest hour," he was perhaps unaware of the burden that phrase would impose on future generations. How do you envisage a future in a country whose greatest moment has been indisputably centered in the past? For a while, the British tried the nirvana of socialism, a kind of anesthetic to Churchill's evocation of an imperial, capitalist past. But socialism failed, and other chimeras, like seeking new greatness in a united Europe, also waned as time went by. The European Union, of its very nature, will never be a British creation. Its central axis is inevitably Continental. Even the short-lived illusions of vicarious power, like Margaret Thatcher's intense alliance with Ronald Reagan, could not restore greatness to Britain, as greatness had always been understood.
 The problem was, after all, insoluble. It was the problem of decline. And perhaps the new era is symptomatic of a simple, exhausted decision to drop the issue altogether, a mass letting go, a communal sigh of acceptance that because the problem cannot be solved it should be quietly abandoned. It is a silent statement that the people of the island simply do not care anymore if their national power is restored or lost. It is a recognition that for each successive generation, the question of national power that once dominated the country's politics has less and less meaning or force. The British, it might be said, have finally stopped seeking a role and started getting a life.
 It is a typically pragmatic improvisation. By quietly abolishing Britain, the islanders abolish the problem of Britain. For there is no problematic "Great" hovering in front of Scotland, England or Wales. These older, deeper entities come from a time before the loss of empire, before even the idea of empire. Britain, one forgets, is a relatively recent construct, cobbled together in the 17th century in the Act of Union with Scotland, overreaching in Ireland and America in the 18th and finally spreading as an organizing, colonial force across the globe in the 19th. Like the Soviet empire before it, although in an incomparably more benign way, this contrived nation experienced a cathartic defeat-in-victory in the Second World War, and after a desperate, painful attempt to reassert itself, has finally given up. Before very long, the words "United Kingdom" may seem as anachronistic as "Soviet Union," although they will surely be remembered more fondly.
 But unlike Russia's future, Britain's is far from bleak. London is Europe's cultural and financial capital, as well as one of the world's truly international hubs. Scotland has returned to its oldest union -- not with England but with England's rivals on the Continent. England itself remains as opaque as ever: undemonstrative yet restless, cantankerous yet docile, open to the world and yet oddly at ease with its isolation. The ruddy faces and warm beer may be receding, but the rowdy cosmopolitanism that was once typical of the islanders under the last Queen Elizabeth seems clearly on the rebound.
 Perhaps England's future, then, will be as a Canada to the E.U.'s United States, with Scotland playing the role of Quebec. Or perhaps London and the South of England will become a kind of liberalized Hong Kong to Europe's dirigiste China. Or maybe Blair will lose his nerve, a backlash will occur and the dissolution of Britain may slow for a while. We cannot know for sure. The changes imposed by a free market in a free society with a fluid Constitution are inherently unpredictable, which is part, of course, of the attraction of the project.
 What we can know, however, is that the English, for their part, seem to be enjoying the ride. Maybe they intuit that Orwell was wrong about the endurance of British nationalism but right about the tenacity of Englishness. It is hard to forget Orwell's elegiac hope, as German bombs were raining down on London, that even if every major institution in Britain were thrown onto the scrap heap, England would still somehow be England, "an everlasting animal stretching into the future and the past, and, like all living things, having the power to change out of recognition and yet remain the same." Or perhaps the islanders have merely sensed that there is only so long, even if you are English, that you can cling to a culture of loss. Sooner or later, you begin to feel the possibility of gain.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (pg 38); From the coffee bar next to the pub to the female deputies behind the Prime Minister in Commons, the new collides with the old. (pg. 40); Tony Blair, shown here with a fan in Wales, has embarked on a course of radical constitutional overhaul.; The BBC's hold has slipped; every house seems wired to the world beyond. (pg. 42).; The Union Jack was once England's clearest emblem. The way things are going, it's apt to be St. George's red cross. (pg. 43); The English have learned to tolerate, if not celebrate, hedonism. For the young, it's party time. (pg. 44); These days, cell phones and celebrity sell better than reticence and good manners. (Photographs By Jake Chessum for The New York Times)(pg. 45)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (79%); WALES (79%); FRANCE (66%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; ENGLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (79%); WALES (79%); FRANCE (66%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (66%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CURRENCY; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ROYAL FAMILY RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); TRAINS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); BOOKSTORES (73%); TRENDS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); HARDWARE STORES (68%); MEAT STORES (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); POP & ROCK (51%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, ANDREW TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



448 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 15; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
The Actor Wars: Another Chapter

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE 

 BODY:
THE trade agreement governing the number of British and American actors when they work on the opposite side of the Atlantic is under attack by Britain's main international cultural agency, prompting hopes that the unions involved will reconsider the arrangement.
Under the current rules, a producer who wants to bring a British actor to New York must seek the approval of Actors Equity, the American union, just as British Equity's approval is needed to allow an American actor to go to Britain. 
 In theory, the two unions try to balance the exchange, and there are categories for exemptions. For example, actors who are "stars" need not be approved. But over the years, some Britons have charged that provisions for exchange have been unevenly and unfairly applied.
The sometimes bitter wrangling was reactivated a little more than two weeks ago with the release of a critical report from the Arts Council, Britain's principal agency for international cultural relations. The report said that American Equity's influence in the actor exchange "is unquestionably operating in restraint of free trade between the countries." It added that the American union's rationale for its approach was based on "short-term quasi-economic arguments for which there is little if any justification."
Some Americans have said that because so much British theater is Government subsidized and because it costs less both to produce shows in Britain and to use their casts of British actors in New York, jobs for Americans would be reduced in a more open marketplace in which Britain would be even more alluring. It costs roughly $300,000 to mount a straight play in London, compared with some $1.5 million in New York. Also, American actors make more money than do their British counterparts and must maintain their American pay standards if they work in London, according to American Equity agreements.
The Arts Council report argues that the current policies mean that audiences in both countries miss seeing a great deal of theater and that many actors lose opportunities to work.
Jed Bernstein, executive director of the League of American Theaters and Producers, the trade organization, said recently that the current system was a failure. But Alan Eisenberg, executive director of American Equity, said that the trade agreement was still needed to protect American jobs.
"We'd like to see a subsidy situation in this country," Mr. Eisenberg said.
The League advocates a joint fund for American actors in England with the Society of London Theater, the British counterpart to the League, and the Theatrical Management Association, which represents regional theaters. Money from the fund would help pay the higher salaries for American actors that are dictated by American Equity. The League also favors the creation of a forum in the United States for British producers to audition American talent, and that videotapes of Broadway shows housed at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center be made available to the London Theater Museum, with an eye toward showing off talent on both sides of the Atlantic.
Members of British and American Equities and the two trade organizations met in London in 1997 but did not reach any resolution. Next month, British Equity will present the Arts Council report to its members. All four parties say they are open to meeting again some time this year.
"It's a terribly difficult situation and emotions run high," Sally Cowling, head of Drama and Dance for the Arts Council said in a telephone interview from London. "It's the only situation of its kind in the world and terribly close to artists' hearts." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AEL (NYSE) (85%); AECI (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (85%); SIC3625 RELAYS & INDUSTRIAL CONTROLS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: ACTORS EQUITY ASSOCIATION AMERICAN EQUITY INVESTMENT LIFE HOLDING CO (85%); AMERICAN ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS INC (85%); AMERICAN EQUITY BANCORP INC (85%); ARTS COUNCIL (90%); LEAGUE OF AMERICAN THEATERS&PRODUCERS (80%); NEW YORK (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: ACTORS EQUITY ASSOCIATION ARTS COUNCIL (90%); LEAGUE OF AMERICAN THEATERS&PRODUCERS (80%); NEW YORK (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); THEATER (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



449 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 10; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2240 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Who Is This Dame? Oh, Only a Queen of the Stage

BYLINE: By BENEDICT NIGHTINGALE; Benedict Nightingale is the chief theater critic of The Times of London.

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
SINCE she took over the role of the spymaster M in the James Bond movies, and came close to winning an Oscar for her portrayal of Queen Victoria in "Mrs. Brown," Judi Dench's mailbag has vastly increased. She has become accustomed to getting letters, mostly from America, asking her where she has been hiding and what acting she has done.
If she were a pedantic person, she might reply that, well, she has been playing leading roles in the theater for four decades and that her work onstage won her the title of Dame of the British Empire in 1988. If she were feeling immodest, Dame Judi might add that she is widely regarded in British theater circles as the greatest living English actress. But she knows that only a minuscule proportion of the world's population has seen her Cleopatra or Lady Macbeth, her brassy Mother Courage or her oddly young and sexually susceptible Lady Bracknell. She is well aware that there are at least two good reasons why she has achieved international renown only in her 60's. 
 First, she has long been a stranger to Broadway and the American stage. When she opens at the Ethel Barrymore Theater in David Hare's "Amy's View" on April 15, it will be her first appearance in New York in 40 years. Back in 1959, she had what she remembers as "a magical time" discovering the city and playing smallish parts for the visiting Old Vic Company. Now she is taking the star role of Esme, the feisty West End actress who spends Mr. Hare's tragicomedy arguing with her daughter, quarreling with her son-in-law and enduring setbacks professional, economic and personal.
Second, she shied from the movies after a producer saw her first screen test and told her, "You have every single thing wrong with your face." That was many years ago; but, perhaps also because she prefers to give performances that are alive and changing rather than finished and fixed, her accomplishments onscreen have only recently begun to match those onstage. However, her Elizabeth I in "Shakespeare in Love," for which she has just received an Oscar nomination for best supporting actress, and the new "Tea With Mussolini," in which she plays a 1930's Fascist groupie, may give her second career the extra push it needs.
Actually, that trip to America in 1959 began with disappointment. Judi Dench was only 22 and fresh from drama school when she was cast as Ophelia opposite John Neville's Hamlet at the Vic in 1957, and some critics thought her unready, the influential Kenneth Tynan dismissing her as "a pleasing but terribly sane little thing." So when the company eventually took several plays across the Atlantic, she was replaced in that role while retaining Maria in "Twelfth Night" and the Princess of France in "Henry V." Her belated return to Broadway in a production that triumphed first at the National Theater, then in the West End, marks a pretty gratifying reversal of fortunes.
Why is Dame Judi so treasured in her native England? Like many major performers, from the tiny, hoarse Edmund Kean through the big, awkward Henry Irving, she has what at first seem physical disadvantages. At 5 feet 1 1/2 inches, she is undeniably short; an ungallant observer might call her stocky; and when she was a girl in York, an actor who met her after consulting her father, a local doctor, decided she had no hope of a stage career because she sounded as if she had laryngitis. When she played Sally Bowles in "Cabaret" in 1968, she got so irked by audiences expressing concern about her that she implored the management to put a notice in the foyer: "Miss Dench does not have a cold. This is her normal speaking voice."
But the crack in her voice has become an appealing smokiness, and her height has seemed noticeable only when she has wanted it to be noticed, as when her dough-faced, chopped-haired Mother Courage was scuttling across Brecht's warscape like a tough little cockroach evading the light.
Indeed, what distinguishes Dame Judi from Britain's other major actresses -- the droll Maggie Smith, the cool Diana Rigg, the always fresh Vanessa Redgrave -- is the extent of her versatility. In the early days, she was an innocently excited Juliet for Franco Zeffirelli, as well as a raunchy, street-wise Sally Bowles for Harold Prince. More recently, she has played the disillusioned actress in Stephen Sondheim's "Little Night Music," delivering "Send in the Clowns" not as a sentimental dirge or pretty crowd-pleaser but as a deeply felt confession of emotional failure; yet she was equally successful as a rattled, monstrous nightclub owner in the most recent revival of Rodney Ackland's 1952 play, "Absolute Hell." The two performances won her a unique double in the 1995 Olivier Awards: best actress in a straight play, ditto in a musical.
The Lady Macbeth she played, opposite Ian McKellen in 1976, an ambitious yet vulnerable woman forcing herself to commit acts that terrified her, is widely reckoned the best of our era. When Peter Hall asked her to tackle Cleopatra in 1987, she asked him if he really wanted "a menopausal dwarf" in the role, and then answered her own doubts with a performance that combined volatility, sexiness, melancholy, absurdity and menace. For once, the Egyptian queen was not a million miles from justifying Enobarbus's salute to her "infinite variety."
But variety is just one quality that Dame Judi's admirers mention when they define her special strengths. Sir Richard Eyre, who directs her in "Amy's View," says that "part of her genius, and I mean genius, is that she has technique to burn, yet never displays it, always makes her performance seem effortless." David Hare talks of her "slightly mystical, sixth-sense responsiveness to the mood of the audience," her spontaneity on stage. "Most actors find a performance in which they're secure and vary it a certain amount," he says. "She can say the same line in eight different ways and make you believe it each time. At one performance of 'Amy's View,' a man started sobbing so loudly in the last act that it was upsetting the audience, and Judi told me she was thinking, 'He'll have a breakdown if I'm not careful.' So when she got to an upsetting line, she delivered it lightly. How many other actors have the presence of mind to bring that off?"
Add emotional empathy and power, warmth yet steeliness, too much understanding of human complexity to judge the character she is playing, a mischievous sense of humor, a love of economy, a refusal to hog limelights or upstage other actors, and, no, you still haven't quite exhausted the qualities acknowledged by those interviewed in a recent biography, John Miller's "Judi Dench." "A blazing sincerity and honesty," says Ian McKellen, summing up characters from Juliet in 1960 through a wonderfully cranky, mistrustful Beatrice in a 1976 "Much Ado" to Arkadina in Chekhov's "Seagull" in 1994.
But surely no major actress behaves quite like Dame Judi when a role is offered her. Though she may do background reading -- biographies of Victoria before tackling "Mrs. Brown" -- she tends not to look at a script before the first read-through. Howard Davies, who directed her Mother Courage, was astounded when she growled, "Why didn't you tell me she's never off the stage?" just before rehearsals began; and she similarly flummoxed the director Trevor Nunn by saying she hadn't realized the title character of Sean O'Casey's "Juno and the Paycock" was older than herself. Last year, she agreed to appear in Eduardo de Filippo's "Filumena" without knowing she was to play a hard, canny Neapolitan prostitute who plots to marry her protector. For her, it was enough that she had a director, Sir Peter Hall, she trusted to deal with the terrors she always feels in the early creative stages.
Those terrors certainly afflicted her during "Amy's View." Dame Judi, who had long been asking Mr. Hare to write her a play, recalls meeting him walking his dog near her Hampstead home and him saying, "I'm finishing something with a wonderful part for you." Mr. Hare remembers her nervously replying, "Oh, God, do I really have to do it?" He somehow persuaded her to read the script, or most of it, and she seemed delighted. But three weeks into rehearsal, the lines, not to mention the character of Esme, were eluding her, and she begged Sir Richard to release her.
He gently refused, as Sir Peter had when she was insisting she had been wrong to tackle Lady Bracknell in Wilde's "Importance of Being Earnest." So Dame Judi started a regimen of taking baths and, however cold the water got, refusing to allow herself to get out until she had learned three or four pages. It was eccentric but it worked. The result was a performance whose mix of humor and pain won her some of the best reviews of her career.
Altogether, Dame Judi is a thoroughly paradoxical person. She exudes confidence onstage yet is so insecure she may sometimes be heard telling directors, "I don't know what I'm doing." She is always afraid before an entrance, yet relies on the adrenaline this gives her, so much so that she dryly says, "I'd be frightened if I didn't feel fear." And she eagerly embraces the very risks that drive her near to despair:
"People kept telling me I couldn't play Lady Bracknell, but that was the appeal. I get bored easily, so I want to play parts unlike those I've played. I want to learn, I want to be pushed. I want someone to say, 'Go on, try that, go on, fall 3,000 feet and see how you feel when you get up.' "
THE paradoxes proliferate. Perhaps because of the tension she feels, Dame Judi is notoriously prone to getting the giggles onstage, and sometimes plays pranks during performances. For instance, she slipped a spoof love note to Howard Davies, who was watching her in a theater-in-the-round production at the National, only to realize that the note had landed in the lap of the stranger sitting next to him. And yet her commitment to her art has never been in doubt. One reason she admires "Amy's View," and wants to take it to America, is that David Hare uses the play to mount a defense of live theater over the electronic media as represented by Esme's go-getting son-in-law.
Again, Dame Judi neglects conventional preparation yet works famously hard not only in rehearsals but also after she has opened. For her, plays exist only when she can explore, change, react to other performers while they react to her. Sir Richard calls her approach to roles "unscientific and utterly pragmatic," recalling how she had found Ranevskaya in "The Cherry Orchard" elusive until she suddenly said in a wry way, "She's a terrible old tart, isn't she?" The suspicion that the great landowner had slept with many men added an earthy truth and forlorn yearning to her performance.
Unsurprisingly, Dame Judi herself finds it hard to talk about acting, though she admits to relying primarily on instinct. She is not, however, a friend of the Method, which she thinks encourages self-absorption and discourages the slight detachment an actor must always retain. "You have to feel things at the minute they're happening," she says. "But you also have to ask yourself a hundred questions about every line: about the essence of the character and what the author is saying through you. I think of myself at an enormous console with hundreds of buttons, each of which I must press at exactly the right time."
Dame Judi is not easily satisfied with her own work. Despite plenty of critical praise, she feels her Gertrude in 1989 was "a deep, deep failure," mainly because she never convinced herself that Daniel Day-Lewis, who played Hamlet, could be her son, for reasons she cannot articulate, even to herself. One explanation for her failure to commit herself more often to movies, and for her refusal to watch those she appears in, is that they leave her wishing she had done scenes differently. She would, she says, love to have another go at Victoria's rejection of the devoted but troublesome gamekeeper, John Brown, which embarrassed her when she brought herself to see "Mrs. Brown." For her, acting is a work in progress -- "With 'Amy's View' I still feel I've more to discover in the baize bag I like to imagine I'm carrying with me."
Another reason for her preference for the stage is that it is a less literal medium than the screen. With films, you are cast because of what you look like, and you cannot wholly disguise your appearance. "I would never be allowed to play a Neapolitan onscreen," she says. "But I can fool you in the theater, not least by making you believe I'm taller than I am."
And here is a final paradox. Dame Judi is infinitely serious about her work, yet never earnest. Acting is her life and, since she and her husband, the actor Michael Williams, insist on making time for their daughter and grandson, not wholly her life. She likes to tell worried fellow performers, "It's only a play, you know," and never forgets an incident when she was playing Shaw's St. Joan years ago. She looked out the window and saw a pale, anxious woman pushing a pram, looked back into the rehearsal room and saw her colleagues strutting in knitted chain mail, and thought "What on earth are we doing?"
"There has to be a part of you that can laugh, or you'd go mad," she says. "That's not to say I don't care passionately about the business and the people in it, because I do. But I think a sense of the ridiculousness of it all is healthy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judi Dench, best-known in the United States as a film actress, as Queen Elizabeth in "Shakespeare in Love" (Laurie Sparham/Miramax Films); in London in 1968, right, she was Sally Bowles to Kevin Colson's Clifford in "Cabaret." (Zoe Dominic)(pg. 10); John Neville starred with Judi Dench in "Hamlet" in 1957. (Zoe Dominic)(pg. 45)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: AMY'S VIEW (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: NIGHTINGALE, BENEDICT; DENCH, JUDI ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



450 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
In a Strong Market, More Luxury Homes

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
WITH the bloom still on the residential rose, luxury houses are slowly but steadily cropping up in clusters in affluent areas across New Jersey as developers scramble to meet a demand that they say exceeds the supply.
The houses are in subdivisions that generally comprise no more than 25 units with prices ranging from about $675,000 to $3 million. To be sure, the spate of subdivisions under way or soon to begin -- including one each in Saddle River in Bergen County, Warren in Somerset County and Colts Neck in Monmouth County -- will produce just several hundred, rather than thousands of homes. 
 The market for such homes, like the state's housing market in general, started perking up 18 months ago and has remained steady, said John G. Udell, president of Weichert New Homes & Land, an affiliate of Weichert Realtors in Morris Plains. Even the stock market's slide in August, Mr. Udell said, did not significantly affect the sales pace, which has doubled in the last 18 months to three sales a month on average.
Given that pace, he said, his company is encouraging developers to build some houses on speculation. An example is Brentwood Estates, 11 homes on 18 hilltop acres on Stratford Court in Warren. The homes, with a minimum of 4,500 square feet, are on 1.2- to 4.5-acre lots and priced from $799,900 to $1.5 million. In the month and a half since sales started the developer, T.R. Powers of Martinsville, has sold four homes and is building four more on speculation.
The production of luxury homes follows the upward trend in residential construction in general in the state. According to state figures, 30,358 housing permits were issued in 1998, up from 27,454 permits issued in 1997.
Developers and industry professionals attribute the activity in the top end of the housing market to general prosperity, the relative scarcity of such properties, reasonable mortgage interest rates and revisions in the capital-gains laws. The state's strong housing market has also made it easier for buyers to sell their existing homes and buy larger and more expensive new ones.
Last year, 178,000 existing homes were sold in the state, up from 157,300 in 1997, according to figures from the National Association of Realtors in Washington. An example of the rise in the sale of homes priced from $700,000 can be found in Bergen County, where 328 such houses were sold last year through the Multiple Listing Service, up from 253 in 1997, said Naomi B. Friedman, president of a residential brokerage bearing her name in Saddle River that specializes in luxury homes.
"Resale prices in this segment of the market are so high that buyers see they can have a house built for them and come in close in terms of price," Ms. Friedman said.
Buyers, while more limited, are diverse, she said. They include professional couples with children, people who either own their own businesses or work as executives in corporations, Wall Street employees and empty nesters.
Projections for the next few years are that demand will remain healthy as corporate transferees and foreign buyers stream into the market looking for a known address and baby-boomers seek housing to fit their incomes and life styles, Mr. Udell added.
The new homes are bigger and have higher prices, the latter nudged upward by rising land costs. The price of a fully improved 1.5-acre building lot in northern New Jersey has increased in the last year and a half by an average of 40 percent to $175,000; in central Jersey the rise averaged 30 percent to $162,500. Meanwhile, the average square-foot sales price for high-end homes rose to $155 from $115 and the average size house grew to 5,000 square feet from 4,000 square feet, according to Weichert New Homes and Land.
New luxury homes are either custom designed or customized from builder designs to meet buyers' needs, and come with such features as marble in master baths, maid's or au pair's rooms, one or two master bedroom suites, and libraries. But the biggest draw for these homes -- and a requirement for success, brokers added -- is that they are in upscale locations with records of appreciating values.
ONE such location is in Saddle River where Pinnacle Custom, a newly formed division of Pinnacle Communitiesof Millburn, is developing Round Hill, the first subdivision in this community in 15 years. The group of 18 homes will range in size from 7,500 to 9,500 square feet and sit on two-acre lots along a cul de sac being carved from 43 gently rolling acres, most formerly part of an estate, off Saddle River Road. With million-dollar houses around them, the new homes will sell from $2 million to $3 million.
Pinnacle Communities has built expensive homes elsewhere in the New York metropolitan region along with its core business of homes in the $350,000 to $750,000 range. But Brian M. Stolar, the company's president, said Pinnacle had formed its new division to focus on luxury housing because it represents a "natural evolution for the company and an opportunity in a market that has been underserved."
Explaining his company's strategy, Mr. Stolar said: "We find special properties in the best towns in the best locations, insuring that the value of the homes built will be maintained." Pinnacle is planning another project of 35 homes called the Gables on 116 acres of woodlands on Laurel Avenue in Holmdel. The houses at the site, bordering an existing community of expensive homes, will sit on two-acre lots and range in size from 4,800 to 6,500 square feet and in price from $750,000 to $1.1 million
In Saddle River, each of the five- and six-bedroom masonry houses at Round Hill will be custom designed from a selection of basic layouts the company offers. Pinnacle also offers different exteriors, from country to colonial and post-modern, and controls their placement on the site so they blend not only with the natural surroundings, but with one another, said Mr. Stolar.
Ms. Friedman, the broker who is also handling sales at Round Hill said that with the limited supply of such homes "particularly acute" in Bergen County, there is a backlog of buyers for these homes.
Agreeing with that assessment is John Schilp, who heads a Chester-based brokerage bearing his name that is marketing two luxury subdivisions in Bergen County. The projects -- nine houses in Wyckoff and 13 in Upper Saddle River -- are being developed by George McCarthy and Peter Montalbano, principals of Wyckoff Development Company in Ramsey.
The 4,100- to 4,700-square-foot homes, which buyers customize from six floor plans, start at $850,000. "People with money see now as a good time to buy," Mr. Schilp said, noting that at the Upper Saddle River project, where site work just started, three homes have been sold.
The supply-demand imbalance is why Luther Gueyikian, president of Byron-Hill Home Builders, of Marlboro, said he was proceeding with two projects in Monmouth County. Big Brook, nine homes adjacent to a 400-acre park of the same name, is under way on Boundary Road in Colts Neck. On Pleasant Valley Road in Marlboro, work has started on the initial phase of Shallow Brook, 13 of an eventual 53 homes edging a central lawn.
Buyers at both, where homes have at least 5,000 square feet and sit on 1.7- to 7-acre lots, choose from 15 models that are customized to fit their needs. Base prices start at $650,000 and buyers often add $150,000 to $200,000 in upgrades, said Mr. Gueyikian.
Still, buyers will not overpay and want value and a return on their investment, real estate executives say.
That was the case for Fedua and Reid Weinman, both in their 30s', who sold their existing house in Colts Neck and bought one at Big Brook. The couple -- he is a lawyer, she stays at home to raise their two young daughters -- bought the 5,500-square foot home that was intended as the project's model. They paid $650,000 and moved in three weeks ago. Upgrades raised the cost to $700,000, said Mrs. Weinman.
"It represents a good place to raise children and a good investment because we feel we will get back what we paid for the house and more," Mrs. Weinman said, noting that people had already approached them to sell their house. She said they could have made a $100,000 profit.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Custom house at Shallow Creek in Marlboro where prices start at $650,000. Houses at Round Hill in Saddle River start at $2 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (56%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WEICHERT REALTORS INC (56%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (88%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRENDS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (73%); STATISTICS (72%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE JOHN G UDELL (69%); NAOMI B FRIEDMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



451 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
South of I-95, Revival for a Laggard Stamford Area

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
AFTER decades of polishing its corporate image, Stamford is turning its attention to the South End and Waterside, south of Interstate 95. There, in the shadow of Swiss Bank, Champion International and other offices on the north side of the highway, neglected factories, utility plants, and rusting oil tanks -- vestiges of the city's industrial heyday -- mingle with rundown businesses and the deteriorated housing of the city's poor.
But beginning this year and extending over the next five to 10 years Stamford will work on an ambitious plan to bring a variety of housing, business and recreational improvements into the area -- a peninsula and an area to the west comprising a total of a scant three square miles, joined by a small bridge over a canal. 
 Early next month, after completing a $200,000 study, Sasaki Associates, of Watertown, Mass., expects to present to the city its preliminary plans for a linear park designed to link downtown and the South End while increasing public access to the water.
The park would run along the Mill River from Broad Street to the harbor, where it would continue to wind around the perimeters of both neighborhoods. Existing and new development, as well as Kosciusko Park in the South End and Southfield Park in Waterside, would be incorporated into it.
"Our aim is to help the city establish a civic landscape, taking into consideration the aspirations of existing residents," said Alistair McIntosh, a principal in the Sasaki firm.
More imminent is the construction, to begin this year, of a road designed to alleviate a longstanding South End traffic problem. An $18 million grant from the Federal Highway Administration will pay for a 90-foot-wide east-west road parallel to the south side of I-95. It will connect the Stamford train station to Elm Street and eliminate a labyrinth of narrow, one-way streets that confound truck drivers and other motorists coming off Exit 8 of I-95 into the South End.
In conjunction with it, the state will build a 1,200-space, $16 million parking garage behind the existing 762-space garage at the station, where the waiting list has reached 800.
Proposals for new apartments are also being welcomed by the city, where apartment vacancy rates are in the single digits and demand is expected to grow as the increase in office rents, now up to $35 a square foot a year for prime space, generates new office construction.
A 15-acre parcel on the eastern shore of Waterside that is owned by the Hoffman Fuel Company and Northeast Utilities has been optioned by Clearview Investment Management of Stamford for the construction of 327 luxury rental apartments in two four-story buildings. A boardwalk, marina and fishing pier are included in applications submitted to Stamford's Planning and Zoning Boards, the Army Corps of Engineers and the state's Department of Environmental Protection.
When plans are approved and the fuel company has removed contamination from the site, Avalon Bay Communities of Alexandria, Va., is to exercise its option with Clearview to build and manage the complex, and to buy the property outright. Apartments are to be ready for occupancy in October of 2000.
A second Northeast Utilities property, 20 acres on the western shore of the South End, has been under option by the Collins Development Company of Greenwich for more than 10 years.
Several years ago a Collins plan for developing housing, retail space, and a marina on the site was rejected. A new plan for market-rate condominiums to be submitted by the company in the spring will, according to Arthur Collins Sr., president of Collins, be compatible with an existing marina and a proposed terminal for ferry service to Manhattan.
Work is to begin this summer on a five-year project to build 315 rental apartments and 15 for-sale town houses at Southfield Village, a public housing complex in Waterside that had been overwhelmed by drugs and crime. Four high-rise buildings were demolished in an effort to clean it up two years ago, leaving 34 bungalows still to be razed.
THE developer, Beacon-Corcoran Jennison Partners of Boston, will eventually own and manage the property. To date, it has received a $26.4 million grant from the Federal Housing and Urban Development Agency and a $3 million commitment from the City of Stamford. It is seeking state assistance through the Connecticut Housing and Finance Administration for financing the estimated remaining $50.6 million cost of the project.
Half of the units will be available to tenants who live there now, one quarter of the remaining units will be rented at market rates, and tenants occupying the other 25 percent will be required to have that do not exceed 60 percent of the area median of $94,300, or around $50,000 a year.
This is not the first time that south Stamford has been perceived as a viable site for development. The offices of the 280,000-square-foot Metro Center and First Stamford Place, a three-building, 780,000-square-foot complex on the south side of the highway, and the offices at Soundview Farms -- 750,000 square feet in 13 buildings -- overlooking Waterside's harbor were built during Stamford's boom of the 70's and 80's.
In the last few years, undaunted by down-at-the-heel surroundings, other developers have ventured into the area, successfully building a handful of waterfront condominium complexes, modest offices and high-tech industrial buildings.
Dannel Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, believes that the district is benefiting from a tight downtown market. "The value of property in Stamford," he said, "is what's driving this renaissance. People want to invest here."
While much of the area's older housing is in poor repair, there are still pockets of well-maintained early 20th-century homes that were built for the families of workers in nearby factories.
Much of the damage to housing resulted from the loss of industry and a change in zoning. In an effort to draw manufacturing back to the city the South End and Waterside were rezoned in the 60's from industrial and residential to industrial alone.
"After the zone change, housing could no longer protect itself from small industries creeping in, reducing property values and the residential character of the neighborhood," explained Rick Redniss, partner at Redniss & Mead, a Stamford consulting firm that has drawn up many of the plans and zoning applications for new development in the area.
People who live south of I-95 for the most part welcome the prospect of change, with certain caveats.
"We want to be sure it's not going to disturb people who are already here," said Bob Owens, chairman of the South End Neighborhood Revitalization Committee, and a member of the Stamford Board of Representatives. "We welcome water-related uses, and we look for rehabilitating existing housing stock to bring it up to code, not to gentrify the place."
David Anderson, president of the Stamford Partnership, whose recommendations underlie much of the planning, values industry. "There should be no big box stores, office buildings or shopping centers in the South End," he said. "Whatever comes out of all this must be community based."
Ideas, some under consideration for years, have grown numerous and quite grand. "Much of it is a vision," said Mayor Malloy, "but we're confident that a lot of the housing, parks and recreational space will come to fruition."
In addition to hundreds of housing units, suggestions have included a waterfront hotel and conference center, hockey arena, entertainment district with nightclubs and restaurants, research and development businesses, artists' lofts, an amphitheater, expanded city marina facilities, food markets, dry cleaners, drugstores, discount clothing stores and banks.
Notable for its absence in the city's overview of the district is the disposition of the former Yale & Towne Lock Company's property and buildings. Covering 22 acres on Canal Street in the South End, its original million square feet has been reduced by demolition to about 580,000 square feet. "The buildings are functionally obsolete," said Kathy Rorick, director of development for Heyman Properties of Westport, owners since the factory closed in the 40's.
"We expect to redevelop it ourselves as a mixed-use facility for retail, office, some light assembly," said Ms. Rorick.
At present, about 100 spaces in the complex are rented for $6 a square foot a year and upto artists, antiques dealers, wholesale furniture dealers, a motorcycle dealer, truck and car rental companies, a vertical climbing gym, and others.
Renee Kahn, head of the Historic Neighborhood Preservation Program, is concerned about stifling such evidence of "a natural renaissance taking place outside of the major developments."
"There are 300 antique dealers in old warehouse buildings with waiting lists, and I like the diversity of scrap metal dealers and barges on the canal," she said. "With all sorts of planning and natural regenerative forces going on it's difficult to say which way things will go, especially if the economic bubble bursts."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Atlantic Street in the South End neighborhood of Stamford.
(Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NU (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (90%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: STE DES AUTOROUTES RHONE-ALPES SA (90%); CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP (58%); NORTHEAST UTILITIES (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ZONING (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (64%); ENGINEERING (64%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (64%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (62%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (50%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); ARMIES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



452 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 15; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: A School's Richer Day for Its Children

BYLINE: By RICHARD WEIZEL 

 BODY:
SEVEN-YEAR-OLD Joshua Rodriguez of Bridgeport wanted to know if the classical music he was listening to was written "by that deaf composer," while 8-year old Elizabeth Trojanowski of Stratford just hummed along with the melody.
It was after 4 P.M and many of the 320 students at the regional Six to Six Interdistrict Magnet School had gone home. 
 But about 50 students were still there, engaged in various recreation and educational activities, because their parents were still at work and would be picking them up in the afternoon, some as late as 6 P.M.
That suited students like Joshua and Elizabeth just fine. They were among a dozen pupils, racially mixed, urban and suburban, gathered around a computer listening to and learning about the music of Mozart, Bach and Beethoven. The music teacher, Joseph Uschak, was taking the students on a classical music journey through a computerized magical kingdom.
"The students in this school don't have stereotyped misconceptions about each other because they have grown up together here," Mr. Uschak said. "And for the students who stay here after the regular school day, we have a tremendous opportunity to explore areas like classical music that they might not otherwise have the opportunity to learn about."
Joshua said after the lesson that he liked staying late at school because he gets the chance to take part in his favorite subjects, art and music. "We get to draw and we get to sing, and that makes me feel good," he said. "It makes me feel happy."
Elizabeth agreed. "I love it here, and I don't mind staying late because I like the music best of all," said the third grader who has been attending the school since she was a pre-schooler.
Her 5-year-old brother, Kenny, said he liked the school too, but for a different reason. "I love doing cartwheels in gym class," he said.
Their mother, Tammy Trojanowski, and other parents said they send their children to the school because it combines many unusual elements and encourages parental and community participation. Teachers at the school described a hands-on interactive educational process that is being emulated around the country.
"My kids love coming here and I know they are getting not only a good education, but the kind of education that encourages their creativity and thinking process," said Ms. Trojanowksi. "It's also good for them to be learning alongside children of different ethnic and racial backgrounds, which is reflective of the real world."
Joshua's mother, Ariadne Rodriguez agrees, and said that as a single mother the school makes it possible for her to work and know that her son is involved in creative and educational activities even after the typical school day has ended.
"They allow the children to learn at their own pace and to be involved in and to develop in areas that they enjoy and are drawn to, like music and art," Ms. Rodriguez said. "The school is also like a small global community where our children share their backgrounds and learn about the backgrounds of other students."
Ms. Rodriguez said she was particularly touched by the drawing of an Asian girl that Joshua made and brought home from school a few months ago. "Something like that teaches him about art, and about the differences and similarities of another culture," she said.
Indeed, when it was established in 1993, the school's planners set out to create a model regional school that would reflect the racial and cultural diversity of its southwestern Connecticut school districts. The school, with pre-school for children as young as 3 and classes of about 20 students, makes social studies and social consciousness the core of the curriculum. As one of about a dozen interdistrict magnet schools in the state, Six to Six, is the only one that was built and designed specifically to combine the work of the child education specialists, Dr. James P. Comer of the Yale-Bush Center for Child Development, and Edward Zigler, a former director of the National Head Start Program.
The school offers family support services linked to the school that puts development of the child at the center of the educational process. It also uses the school as a primary resource in providing physical and mental health care and support services to the entire family.
"Six-to-Six is about as unique a school as you are going to find in the way in blends together not only the Comer and Zigler models, but other progressive educational techniques as well," said Jennifer Heath, a program manager at the Yale Child Center in New Haven. "This is a school that embodies all the school reform principles that work for today's children and today's families."
Anne Hamilton, the school's director and principal, said she believed that Six-to-Six was accomplishing its mission to reduce racial isolation by providing quality education to students in Bridgeport, the state's largest city, and in four surrounding towns: Stratford, Fairfield, Trumbull and Monroe.
The school has grown from a few pre-schoolers when it opened in 1993, to a pre-K through grade six school that is now within about 60 students of its projected peak enrollment of 360. Plans for a $15 million expansion to add 60 middle school students have been stalled over whether there is enough interest to support expansion.
Some parents said the school has not promoted itself enough in the suburbs and needs to do a better job of marketing. Ms. Hamilton did not deny that, but said the school's annual $1.4 million budget does not allow much of a budget for marketing. The school budget is supported by the local school districts, Federal and state grants, and fees. She said the school, which holds a lottery every March for new admissions, has a waiting list of about 1,000, mostly for openings in the lower grades. She said the school strives to maintain its 50/50 urban-suburban, minority-non-minority balance, and that siblings of children already in the program are given priority for admission.
State educators said that representatives of school districts as far away as Minnesota and Kansas City have visited the school.
Charles Cassidy, program manager for the State Department of Education's Interdistrict Cooperative Grant Programs, said that "What makes the school so unique and interesting is that it is helping to reverse the idea of suburban flight, which has been such a major factor in recent years both in Connecticut and around the country."
Ms. Hamilton said, "The best preparation we can give children for their future is the ability to get along with others, including those of other races, cultures and socio-economic backgrounds."
Robyn Proto of Stratford said she felt lucky that her 5-year-old daughter Caroline has been able to attend the school the last three years. "We're a two-parent working family, she said, "and to be able to find a school where our daughter can go until we pick her up at 5 P.M. and also has so much diversity and such small class sizes -- is truly a miracle."
 
Breaking Barriers With a Border School
GOING beyond the Bridgeport magnet school, which is open from 6 A.M. to 6 P.M. and serves five municipalities, educators in Bridgeport and Trumbull are advocating the state's first border magnet school at the Bridgeport line in Trumbull.
The proposal has been endorsed by both the Bridgeport and Trumbull school boards, as well as by the State Education Commissioner Theodore S. Sergi, and is awaiting final approval by the General Assembly.
The school, to be called the New Century School, with kindergarten through the sixth grade, would be built and operated with mostly state funds and include 300 students each from Trumbull and Bridgeport.
The school is being sought to ease the burden of rising student populations and lack of classroom space in both communities, and as a way to meet the court orders to end racial isolation and educational inequality in the cities.
"We envision this as a unique school that can solve the problem of rapidly increasing student enrollments in both Bridgeport and Trumbull without either community having to build new schools," said the Bridgeport School Superintendent, James A. Connelly. "It would also be a terrific way of bringing together urban and suburban students in a voluntary setting."
Features of the school could include a year-round program with a 12-hour school day, a variety of extracurricular activities, and a laptop computer for every student, Trumbull officials recently told their school board.
"This is our vision of the types of programs we would like to see operating at this school, it's an exciting prospect and we hope it can move forward," said the Trumbull School Superintendent, Edwin T. Merritt. "But the school must be unique enough to attract students with state-of-the-art technology to usher in the new century."
While board members and teachers praised the proposed program, they also had some concerns. "This sounds like a dream school that has everything a student could ever want, but that is both wonderful and worrisome at the same time," said Robert Pitzschler, a Hillcrest Middle School teacher a teacher representative on the school board. "What happens when these students complete the program after sixth grade and then have to go back to the regular Trumbull schools? That could be quite a shock."
Dr. Merritt said other components of the new school cold include an on-site television studio and weather station, varied fine arts program, on-site child care and health clinic, as well as a community athletic center with a pool, fields and large gymnasium.
The school, with an estimated cost of $30 million, would be operated by the Cooperative Educational Services in Trumbull, one of three regional state agencies helping to oversee a state mandate to integrate state schools.
"With rising student enrollments this school would be far more economical than building new schools in both communities," Dr. Merritt said. RICHARD WEIZEL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Joseph Ushchak, a music teacher, with children and computer; below, Joshua Rodriguez playing with blocks. The school has 320 students. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ART; MUSIC STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (70%); ETHNICITY (69%); 

PERSON: WEIZEL, RICHARD JOSHUA RODRIGUEZ (90%); ELIZABETH TROJANOWSKI (63%); ARIADNE RODRIGUEZ (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



453 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2288 words

HEADLINE: Renewal, Sure, But Villages Say Families First

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
MAYOR DAVID KAPELL is going to have to start wearing a clown suit one of these days. Or maybe an open flannel shirt, baggy jeans and some phat sneakers.
Greenport, you see, is rapidly becoming Kidstown, L.I. 
 First there came the carousel, a gift from the Northrup-Grumman Corporation, lovingly restored and placed in a shed near the waterfront. Last fall, the village opened a park for skateboarders, in-line skaters and stunt bicyclists, which virtually overnight became a magnet for teen-age daredevils from as far away as New York City.
Now, ground has been broken for a long-awaited waterfront park, including an ice-skating rink, an amphitheater and a heated, glass-enclosed pavilion for the merry-go-round. There's talk of building a bowling alley. Fund-raisers are putting together lists of well-heeled North Forkers who can give enough money to build the East End's first Y.M.C.A., complete with a big indoor swimming pool and a full menu of sports and youth programs.
When local government officials talk about economic development, they usually wonder about how to lure new businesses and create jobs. And when they talk about revitalizing downtown business districts and competing with malls and discount chain stores, the kinds of things they mention typically involve prettying up the sidewalks with new lampposts, facades, off-street parking and carefully controlled, tasteful signs.
But across Long Island, a growing number of villages are borrowing a page from Orlando, Fla., and Times Square, if on a much, much smaller scale, to infuse their central business districts with some excitement -- often starting with as little as an abandoned movie theater or an orphaned amusement ride.
Here in Greenport, officials have taken a few such ideas, strung them together into what seems to be a coherent strategy, and narrowly focused it on a very particular demographic: the village's children -- past, present and, above all, future.
"We're gambling on kids," Mr. Kapell said the other day. "What we're trying to do now is to make this a place where all kids want to come and, ideally, live. We're into the meat of community development now, and we believe that the way to do that is to make this an irresistible place to grow up."
r, Mr. Kapell, a real-estate broker and antiques dealer, said Greenport's year-round population of about 2,000 had long included a large number of elderly residents. In recent years, this fact, combined with the growing popularity of the North Fork as a vacation destination, has begun to pose a threat to the village's off-season existence, he said.
"As a lot of those elderly people die off, Manhattanites have been buying their houses as second homes and using them part-time," he said. "That spells death, in terms of the traditional fabric of the community."
He said a growing number of residents -- writers, architects, and other professionals -- were splitting their time, spending three or four days telecommuting and the rest of the week living in the city.
"But by and large they are not families," Mr. Kapell said. "And that's the crux of our concern: In order for the village to remain viable in the long term, you've got to have a constant crop of young people growing up in the village."
More young families, he believes, will mean more students at the underused K-12 Greenport public school, more mouths to feed in the village's restaurants and ice cream shops, more feet on the sidewalks and in the shops that line Front and Main Streets.
"For the first 15 years I lived here, the talk was job, jobs, jobs," said Mr. Kapell, who moved from New York City in 1979. "But you can't attract jobs and economic development to a place that people don't want to live in. If Greenport is becoming a competitively attractive place to raise a family, business and economic development will ensue."
It isn't just the mayor who thinks this way. Walter Gezari, the owner of a marine equipment manufacturing company that has revived an old Greenport tradition of naval contracting, said he came around after he provided space in his harborside industrial property for the merry-go-round in 1995 and 1996.
"We did something on the order of 80,000 carousel rides during that time," Mr. Gezari said. "These attractions have a magnetic pull on the youth. Maybe they'll pull their parents into the web."
Greenport is not the only village on Long Island that is using amusements as vehicles for economic renewal. In Patchogue, the most noticeable improvements involve entertainment attractions.
Patchogue's own merry-go-round is to be installed in a downtown pavilion later this year, after 16 years of painstaking carving and painting by an Islip craftsman, Gerry Holzman. A shuttered bank building is being converted to house the new Suffolk County Sports Hall of Fame.
And a former vaudeville theater, which was being used as a movie theater when it closed in the 1980's, is being refurbished for live performances. In December, though work was still under way behind black curtains, the Patchogue Theater was filled to capacity with children for "The Nutcracker on Ice," featuring the St. Petersburg State Ice Ballet.
"You couldn't get tickets," said Gail Hoag, executive director of the Greater Patchogue Chamber of Commerce. "People in town were so thrilled to see the theater open once again."
Those feelings are not confined to Patchogue, of course. Shuttered movie theaters have been converted to local performing arts centers just as successfully in Great Neck Plaza and Westhampton Beach, among other places.
In Lynbrook, recreation and economic development remain linked, though not as directly as in Greenport or Patchogue. Mayor Eugene Eugene E. Scarpato Sr., who is completing his first four-year term, recalled that he ran for office out of frustration after a major employer left downtown Lynbrook when residents blocked its effort to acquire a much-needed parking lot. Now, the same lot has been converted to a new soccer field, at no cost to the village, by a contractor who was allowed to use the lot for several months, the mayor said.
A much more ambitious project was the municipal roller hockey rink, built for $300,000, which opened last year. As many as 400 children and young adults are paying $50 apiece -- $100 for nonresidents -- to play in the rink's spring and fall leagues, and the fees are more than covering the construction costs, Mr. Scarpato said.
On the agenda for this year, he said, is an overhaul of Greis Park, including underground sprinklers for the ballfields, a kiddie spray pool, a golf driving net, a second boccie court and a jogging track around the park's perimeter.
There has been an economic boost from recreational development, the mayor said, pointing to the village's sporting goods store, which is seeing a boom in hockey equipment.
"People come here for a couple of reasons," he said. "One is that we have excellent schools. But these things help bring in families who have kids. And that puts a different kind of business on the street. It creates a need. And one thing leads to another."
Still, Lynbrook's downtown renewal efforts have for the most part consisted of the familiar: A year-old business improvement district is upgrading facades and installing new lampposts. The village is replacing streets, sidewalks, and razing a storefront to create a walkway to off-street parking. The combined efforts are being supported by local taxes, Nassau County's Operation Downtown program, and Federal transportation aid.
Those efforts, which are just taking shape, have begun to help reduce retail vacancies and may have played a part in inspiring two important new projects, Mr. Scarpato said. One is the anticipated expansion of the popular Lynbrook movie theater, a four-screen showplace owned by United Artists, into a much larger and modern multiplex with as many as 10 or 12 screens. Another is a developer's proposal for a 120-room, four-story hotel on the site of a bank on Merrick Road, near the Long Island Rail Road.
Regardless of their success, the efforts that villages are able to mount to beautify and rebuild downtowns remain the envy of some unincorporated areas and hamlets within towns throughout the Island. In Bay Shore, business owners and residents are gathering signatures for a petition to incorporate as a village, despite a list of recent downtown projects that includes a planned $67 million aquarium, the relocated Touro College of Health and Science, and a new park with a bandshell.
Edward M. Flint, a lawyer who supports incorporation, said a village would have greater power to deal with code violations by Bay Shore's many absentee landlords and would be able to process zoning applications faster.
In Greenport, officials seem to have taken the village's powers of self-determination to their extreme over the last few years. But rather than adding to the local bureaucracy, they have been radically shrinking it and creating a war chest of cash with which to rebuild.
In a controversial move in 1994, the village disbanded its corruption-plagued police force, which had a budget of about $1 million a year. Because much of the crime in Southold Town took place in Greenport, Mr. Kapell said, local residents had been paying much more for law enforcement than their neighbors in Orient and Mattituck. Once the Southold police took over, he said, the village-wide cost was about $250,000 a year.
Mr. Kapell built on that savings with other moves, helping reduce the average tax bill to under $350 a year, down from about $1,000.
Then, last year, Greenport sold most of its water system to the Suffolk County Water Authority for $3.5 million, agreeing in return to a 10-year water purchasing contract with the authority that Mr. Kapell said will reduce costs to residents.
Mr. Kapell said the idea of an economic revival based on children's entertainment had not occurred to him when the Grumman carousel was installed in Mr. Gezari's boat yard in 1995. That year, before the carousel was moved to a barn on Front Street, the village sold 25,000 one-dollar rides. In the first six months of the current fiscal year, the carousel grossed $75,000. "It's my favorite gauge of the village economy," he said.
It wasn't until May 1997, when the water system sale was under negotiation, that the mayor said he had his great epiphany. He and a longtime village trustee, George W. Hubbard, were invited to the Greenport School to speak to students about how the local government worked. But the children's eyes quickly glazed over.
"So we started asking these kids, 'What do you want in Greenport?' Mr. Kapell recalled.
"By the end of the day," he continued, "I'd developed a profound respect for the consensus that exists -- subconsciously -- around a number of very doable things: an ice skating rink, a bowling alley, an indoor swimming pool, and a skate park. George and I came out, and we both agreed, we're going to give these kids what they want."
Plans for Mitchell Park, which for decades had been the site of a popular waterfront restaurant, were already under way after an international design competition in 1996 that drew hundreds of responses. The centerpiece of the park was to be a year-round pavilion for the carousel, as well as a boardwalk along an expanded marina and an amphitheater. Officials added a refrigerated outdoor ice skating rink. The North Fork has no other, Mr. Kapell said, and the winters have been so mild that ponds haven't been freezing. In summertime, the rink will double as a kiddie spray pool, he said. The project's $2 million cost will be paid using part of the village's receipts from the water-system sale, along with $1 million in Federal and state matching grants, he said.
The $180,000 skateboard park, paid for entirely by the village, opened last October and is busy at lunchtime, after school, and just about every weekend day that it doesn't rain or snow.
The village has left responsibility for safety and cleanliness in the hands of a group of youngsters, and anyone can turn on the lights with the flip of a switch. There have been no problems except for a few injuries, which are to be expected, the mayor said. "The same kids that a lot of communities call a problem are now running the skate park," he said.
Now, as work is beginning in earnest on the waterfront park, the Y.M.C.A. of Long Island is gearing up for a donation drive to build its newest center, where the big red carousel barn now stands. A $35,000 study paid for by the village, and finished last week, showed that the center would cost $3.5 million, with another $2 million needed to endow the new Y, said Michael Famiglietti, who runs the organization's six existing centers on Long Island. Besides the indoor pool, it would have weight training, a small gymnasium, and child-care programs, he said. The village will pay about $1 million, Mr. Kapell said, with the rest coming from donations.
Today, though most of the projects are still far from completion, talk of them, and the reality of the carousel and skate park, are already beginning to change attitudes about Greenport, Mr. Kapell said. And the first signs are emerging that the displacement of year-round residents by people buying second homes may have slowed. Last year, of the 34 homes that changed hands in Greenport, only 20 were sold by year-rounders. But 23 of the buyers said they intended to live in Greenport all year, he said.
A small change, for sure, but not an insignificant one in a village of 2,000.
"Size counts," Mr. Kapell said. "That's one of our advantages. We're literally working family by family, kid by kid, to develop this village."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Village of Greenport is going for youth appeal with a waterfront park with skating rink and merry-go-round to be built at the site above, and a park for bicyclists and in-line skaters.(Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Mayor of Greenport, David Kapell, left, with a model for a waterfront park. The bike park has drawn youngsters from all over the Island. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for the New York Times)(pg.25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (58%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); GREENPORT (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); FAMILY (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXTREME SPORTS (76%); WINTER SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); SKATEBOARDING (71%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); ICE SKATING (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (65%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); AGING (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); BOWLING CENTERS (54%); RETAILERS (51%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



454 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Cars;
In New York City, Parking Creates Lots of Business

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
NEW YORK is not a particularly friendly city for motorists. There are fleets of aggressively driven cabs to contend with, and lumbering buses and bulky delivery trucks further crowd the streets. Nevertheless, parking is a big business in the city, and one that has seen a national company buy up two of the most familiar local names in the field in recent years.
 Brokers report that multilevel underground parking lots in commercial buildings can produce as much as $1 million in annual lease payments for property owners, who typically lease the space to specialized parking companies. 
 Parking spaces inside residential buildings can rent for from $250 to $500 a month, in addition to the apartment rental, and waiting lists for spaces are common. In at least one case the monthly rental was set at $1,000 by an operator who wanted to reduce the number of residential parkers to open up space for more lucrative transient traffic.
Although a spokesman for the City Planning Commission denies that there is a moratorium against building new parking garages, brokers and developers say that, as a practical matter, few free-standing parking garages have been built in recent years.
Anne DeMarzo, the president of DeMarzo Realty Company, a brokerage concern specializing in parking garages and lots, said that until the planning commission granted permission to expand two garage buildings on Greenwich Street between Spring and Canal Streets from 60 to 188 cars last year, it had not issued such a permit for 25 years.
Indeed, so ingrained is the notion in the city's real estate community that a moratorium is in effect that it has been used as a sales point. Recently, the Carlton Group was hired to sell four development sites near the Javits Center. One, between 37th and 38th Streets and 10th and 11th Avenues, was advertised as being approved for construction of a five-level, 485-space garage. "This is particularly attractive," an announcement said, "since there is currently a moratorium on garage construction and this site is grandfathered."
Alan Miller, a senior vice president of the Carlton Group, said that even if there is nothing written down, a moratorium is in effect. "If you take a piece of land and try to get it approved as a garage, you can't," he said. "All you can get is a certain number of spaces in apartment buildings." He said that in some parts of the city, parking garages would be more valuable to an owner than residential property, if they could be built.
This lack of new supply and the influx of visitors to New York has attracted the attention of a Nashville-based company, Central Parking Corporation, which argues that sophisticated management and economies of scale can improve the financial performance of smaller companies.
Last year Central, a publicly traded company that manages more than a million parking spaces, acquired the New York-based Kinney Parking for $206 million in cash, stock and the assumption of debt. Kinney operated 171,500 spaces, 76,600 of them in the New York metropolitan area, and was the area's largest parking operator.
In 1997, Central acquired Square Industries of Jersey City, which operated 117 parking facilities containing 61,000 spaces. Of those garages, 49 were in New York and 17 in Newark.
"Central has had a huge impact on parking in New York over the last two years," Ms. DeMarzo said.
As a result of these acquisitions, people parking at such noted New York locations as Yankee Stadium, Shea Stadium, Rockefeller Center and the Waldorf-Astoria are sending a portion of their parking fees to Nashville.
Most parking-lot operators do not own the real estate involved. Typically they run the parking operation for the building's owner and receive a management fee for the effort. In other cases, the operator leases the space, the way a retail or office tenant would, guaranteeing the owner an annual rent and sometimes a percentage of gross revenues.
"Most building owners with significant parking capacity don't want to operate it by themselves," said Jeffrey Baker, a senior director of Cushman & Wakefield, a real estate brokerage and services company. "It's a pretty specialized business."
Mr. Baker noted that an underground garage does not count against a building's allowable size under city zoning rules, giving developers of new properties the opportunity to increase revenues by digging a deeper hole in the ground.
BUT he said that in New York, the need to provide ground-level access for cars means giving up space that could be used for stores, an important consideration in high traffic areas. "You don't want to give up valuable retail space for parking," he said.
There are 126,884 parking spaces in indoor garages in Manhattan and an additional 35,000 in outdoor lots, said Joel Stahl, the executive director of Metropolitan Parking Association, citing figures collected by the city's Department of Consumer Affairs. The other boroughs have a total of 193,889 indoor spaces and 111,218 in lots.
Mr. Stahl said that the operating part of the parking business generally mirrors the overall state of the regional economy. "When times are good," he said, "people are more likely to drive in to go to a restaurant or to the theater." But he said good times can also squeeze parking operators, because landlords demand sharply higher rentals when leases expire than when the economy is less robust.
He said the parking business in the city is quite competitive and highly dependent on location. "If there is a garage in the middle of the theater district, all you have to do is go two blocks west and you will pay two-thirds or one half as much," he said.
According to Ms. DeMarzo, ground-level parking lots can last a long time because they provide a good income for the property owners, with returns on investment of 5 to 7 percent a year. But ultimately, most are building sites in waiting.
That explains why a 200-space parking lot has occupied the western half of the block bounded by 49th and 50th Streets and Seventh Avenue and Avenue of the Americas for most of the decade.
Conspicuous in a district of high-rise buildings, the lot has been a holding action for the Rockefeller Group, which owns the land and cleared away the old buildings in the late 1980's. Now that Rockefeller Group has an agreement with the investment banking company Morgan Stanley Dean Witter to build a 1 million-square-foot office building on the site, the lot's days are numbered.
A Rockefeller Group spokesman said the company hopes to begin excavation for the new building in the fall, after the city reviews modifications requested by Morgan Stanley to the previously fully approved building design.
Since there will be no commercial parking in the new building, the loss of the ground-level lot will increase a shortage of parking in a neighborhood that was already losing half the garage space at Rockefeller Center to a new Christie's auction house.
Despite the invasion of corporate parking management represented by Central, some independent garage operators remain on the scene who are able to take their own noncorporate approach to running the business.
Semone Grossman, the founder of GGMC Parking, which operates 27 garages in Manhattan and Brooklyn, believes that brightening the often-dank spaces with paint and art posters is good for business. He personally selects the posters from the Metropolitan Museum of Art and Museum of Modern Art that are illuminated in light boxes on the walls of his garages.
Mr. Grossman said the poster displays and bright paintwork make drivers happy and make it easier for him to renew his leases, particularly in residential buildings.
Most recently, Mr. Grossman won permission from Republic National Bank to operate a parking lot on land it owns on 40th Street facing the side of the New York Public Library. In an attempt to make the lot blend in with the look of the area, Mr. Grossman built a stone-looking wall along 40th Street that is topped with metal grille work, which will eventually be ivy-covered when the plants he has planted have grown.
A wrought iron gate in the wall allows admission by pedestrians, but all cars will enter and leave by 39th Street. In addition, Mr. Grossman said he plans to commission a local artist to paint a mural on the brick wall behind the attendant's kiosk, which itself will be adorned with his trademark posters.
"New York needs this kind of appearance," Mr. Grossman said, adding that the costs do not affect parking rates. "We have never charged a premium because of decorating."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anne DeMarzo, a broker, says that ground-level lots provide a good income. Above, decorative wall and metal grille of West 40th Street lot.
(Dith Pran/The New York Times)(Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS812930 PARKING LOTS & GARAGES (60%); SIC7521 AUTOMOBILE PARKING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL PARKING CORP; SQUARE INDUSTRIES; KINNEY PARKING CO CENTRAL PARKING CORP (60%); NEW YORK (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL PARKING CORP; SQUARE INDUSTRIES; KINNEY PARKING CO NEW YORK (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (93%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); PARKING LOT OPERATORS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN; DEMARZO, ANNE ALAN B MILLER (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



455 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 19; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: New Hispanic Voice for News

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: ELMSFORD

 BODY:
INSIDE the tiny storefront newspaper office near this village's main street, the phone rang repeatedly and the pace quickened one recent evening as the deadline for printing approached.
"Can't stop for long," David R. Aquije, 31, a Peruvian-trained journalist, said hurriedly. "I have a newspaper to publish." 
 But Mr. Aquije (pronounced ah-KEE-heh) did pause, leafing through the first two issues of his new biweekly newspaper, Westchester Latino, and explaining yet another reason for the sense of urgency in his office.
"I must write about the important stories that are not being covered by the other press," he said. "Did you know that of 42 police departments in Westchester, 19 don't have any Hispanic officers and 23 have only one? That hardly reflects our numbers in the county's population at large."
Mr. Aquije estimates that the free (for now) newspaper, which is distributed to stores, restaurants, libraries and other establishments visited by Hispanic people, has a circulation of about 11,000. According to the United States Census Bureau, the Hispanic population in the county was 86,194 in 1990 -- up from 45,566 in 1980.
Sitting down in front of the personal computer on which he not only writes but also designs and lays out Westchester Latino's 12 tabloid-size pages, Mr. Aquije reflected on the issues about which he reports. "There is mostly good news these days in the Hispanic community," he said, "but also some that is troubling."
Among other things, he is worried about Hispanic mothers who sometimes face insurmountable difficulty raising their American-born children in an unfamiliar country, and he cited the case of one woman whose fear of deportation prevented her from seeking public medical assistance for her child.
"But please don't use the word illegal," he added, quickly. "I prefer to say that the woman doesn't have immigrant status, but their children have rights because they were born here."
Another mother needed proof of her employment as a housekeeper so her children could qualify for nursery school scholarships. Her employers refused, however, fearing they would face charges for not withholding taxes from the maid's pay.
"There are so many heartbreaking issues to cover," Mr. Aquije said. "Clearly, the time has come for a regional newspaper to address this."
The tone of the publication, nevertheless, is upbeat, focusing on first and second generation Hispanic residents and featuring in each issue a profile of an accomplished Hispanic county resident or group of residents. In the first issue, it was a closeup of Larry Delgado, a Republican member of the Common Council in White Plains, the first Hispanic member elected in White Plains and only one of two Hispanic elected officials in Westchester. (The other is Fernando Fuentes, a Democratic Councilman in Yonkers.)
In the second issue, Mr. Aquije focused on a group of Hispanic students at Manhattanville College in Purchase who have volunteered to be role models at White Plains High School. As a result of the Jan. 27 article, one of the Manhattanville students, Freddy H. Sanchez, has been recommended to serve on the county's Hispanic Advisory Board.
Also, Robin A. Bikkal, an immigration lawyer in White Plains and the chairwoman of the county's Hispanic Advisory Board, writes a column called "Immagracion Sin Enrollarse," which roughly translates as "Immigration Without Confusion."
In it, Ms. Bikkal has explained why some immigrants are experiencing delays in obtaining citizenship papers, and she offered information on how to circumvent such problems. In the third issue, she discussed in her column immigration issues associated with traveling outside the United States under the title "To Travel or Not to Travel? That Is the Question."
Most Hispanic residents are in Yonkers, where more than 30,000 Hispanic immigrants lived in 1990, census figures show. White Plains, Port Chester, and New Rochelle each had 7,500 to 8,000 Hispanic residents at the start of the decade. Mount Vernon had 5,000, Peekskill about 1,200 and Rye about 800.
In Port Chester alone, the number of Hispanic people doubled to 7,500, or 30 percent of the village's 25,000 residents, in the 1980's. Now, unofficial counts show that Hispanic residents make up more than 50 percent of Port Chester's population, said Fabricio Gatti, the Venezuelan-born editor of that village's monthly Hispanic newspaper, America Latina.
Mr. Aquije, who immigrated to Westchester from Lima eight years ago and became an American citizen in 1996, holds an undergraduate degree in communications from Inca Garcilaso de la Vega University in Lima and also attended Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry at night to study English when he arrived in the United States -- working in restaurants and supermarkets during the day.
At Mercy College, Mr. Aquije published a monthly bilingual newspaper for Hispanic students and then became the editor of America Latina in Port Chester. Now, in addition to publishing Westchester Latino at night and on weekends, he is a registrar for the White Plains Day Care Association. He has also worked in the Hispanic section of a bookstore and taught Spanish at Berlitz Language Centers in White Plains.
Like Mr. Aquije, thousands of other Hispanic immigrants have come from Central and South America to New York City and its suburbs since 1990. And since then, the county's Hispanic population has grown almost 25 percent, according to a 1997 census estimate.
While the growth in the number of Peruvians, Colombians, Mexicans, Puerto Ricans, Nicaraguans and Salvadorans in Westchester is reflected in the stacks of Spanish-language newspapers on newsstands and in the variety of Spanish selections in video stores, it is not reflected in municipal and county government.
"The heart of the matter is that our numbers are growing, but we are not well represented in the county," Mr. Aquije said. "Our numbers are not seen enough on official boards and in positions of power. That has to change."
Mr. Delgado, the White Plains Councilman, described Mr. Aquije as "the right person at the right time to be a voice for the community."
He continued: "Hopefully, the paper will become a daily. As the buying power and economic vitality of Hispanics grows, then this newspaper can prosper and grow too."
Mr. Aquije said he had 9 advertisers in the first issue, 15 in the second and several more for the third issue distributed on Wednesday.
And he said that many of the letters to the editor have said, "It's about time we had a newspaper like this."
There are only a couple of village-based Hispanic newspapers in Westchester, like America Latina in Port Chester and La Gaceta in Mount Kisco.
La Calle, a weekly Hispanic newspaper based in Tarrytown, which was published in the late 1980's and early 1990's by Gustavo Roca, a former Cuban journalist, failed. Ms. Bikkal observed that the time may finally be right now for a regional Hispanic newspaper because of the increase in the population and the economic force that that represents.
The only black-owned paper in Westchester is the Westchester County Press, published weekly in Eastchester by M. Paul Redd.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David R. Aquije, originally from Peru, is editor of the new Spanish-language newspaper Westchester Latino. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER LATINO (NEWSPAPER) UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER LATINO (NEWSPAPER) US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COUNTIES (88%); CHILDREN (86%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); RETAILERS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POLICE FORCES (74%); CENSUS (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); DEPORTATION (62%); IMMIGRATION (62%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (50%); 

PERSON: AQUIJE, DAVID R; BRENNER, ELSA DAVID R AQUIJE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



456 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 7; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: On the Lookout for Beetle Damage

BYLINE: By SAM LIBBY 

 BODY:
AN infestation of wood-boring beetles -- specifically the Japanese cedar longhorn beetle (Callidiellum refipenne) -- seems to have been averted. But state scientists are asking property owners to examine cedar, arbivitae and juniper trees for signs of ill health.
Scientists were alerted when a homeowner in Milford brought a damaged arbovitae branch to the Agricultural Experiment Station in New Haven last fall, said the state entomologist, Dr. Louis A. Magnarelli. Dr. Magnarelli said there was very little information or scientific literature about the beetle, and that this could be the first documented instance of the beetles' damaging a living tree. He said that 100 infested young trees found in nurseries in New Haven and Fairfield Counties have been destroyed or are being quaranteened for study. 
 The executive secretary of the Connecticut Nurserymen Association, Robert Heffernan, said that "state scientists should be commended for how quickly they got a handle on this and contained and hopefully eliminated this problem." But he also noted that scientists and owners of nursery businesses would not stop trying to figure out how the beetles got into the state -- and would also do everything possible to make sure they don't return. Scientists from the Agricultural Experiment Station, Dr. Magnarelli said, will inspect all shipments of cedars, arbivitaes and cedar trees to nursery businesses.
He said that very little is known about the beetle: what is known is that the adults bore and tunnel into the tree in the fall and deposit eggs. The larvae hatch in the tree and cause a lot of damage when they tunnel through the tree and emerge as adults during the early spring. Mr. Heffernan added that it was not known whether the larvae could survive a Connecticut winter.
Property owners should look for cracked bark, cracks, blistering or anything else that looks unhealthy on arbivitae, cedar and juniper trees. Adult beetles are no larger than half an inch and could be as small as a quarter of an inch. They have black/dark blue, black/dark brown, red/orange and red/brown markings.
Arbivitaes in particular are an economically important tree to the state's nursery businesses, Dr. Magnarelli said. and Eastern red cedars an important component of the state's forests.
More than 2,000 plant nursery businesses in Connecticut employ 5,000 workers year round and many seasonal employees as well, says Mr. Heffernan. The industry is the largest agricultural business in the state and is valued at $200 million a year. Much of the industry is dependent on the export of Connecticut-grown plants and the state's reputation for high quality plants, he said.
The Japanese cedar longhorn beetle should not be confused with the Asian longhorn beetle, said Dr. Magnarelli. Aerial and ground surveyers are looking for any signs the Asian longhorn beetle could be in Connecticut. The adult is coal black with white markings and is about an inch long. It has infested Chicago and its suburbs, as well as New York City and Long Island. This beetle attacks many wild and cultivated trees including horse chestnuts, elms, poplars, fruit trees and maple trees. It is particularly devastating to maple trees, Dr. Magnarelli said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PESTICIDES AND PESTS; TREES AND SHRUBS; BEETLES INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (89%); CROP RESEARCH (89%); ENTOMOLOGY (78%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (77%); AGRICULTURE (76%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); PESTICIDES (73%); SEASONAL WORKERS (68%); 

PERSON: LIBBY, SAM LOUIS A MAGNARELLI (94%); ROBERT HEFFERNAN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



457 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 13; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:

One Actor, Nine Parts
Danny Hoch won an Obie award for his Off Broadway show called "Some People" in 1994. Now he has a new one-man tour de force called "Jails, Hospitals and Hip-Hop," scheduled on Tuesday and Wednesday at 8 P.M. at the Yale Repertory Theater in New Haven. 
 His ability to transform himself into nine deeply-etched characters during an evening's performance prompted Ben Brantley of The New York Times to describe him as "part sociologist, part moralist and part super-chameleon." As Mr. Hoch works on a bare stage with a handful of props he manages to reproduce the accents of speech and physical mannerisms of his subjects without stereotyping.
Each character has a story to tell, usually funny, often poignant, but always strikingly real. His people range from a teen-ager aching to be a black rapper, to a young Puerto Rican with a limp from a gunshot wound, and a drug-addicted, jail-bound Vietnam vet diagnosed H.I.V.-positive, who protests, "I was shooting heroin but I was eating organic!"
Tickets, priced from $11 to $22, may be reserved by calling (203) 432-1234.
 
From Fugitive to Pastor
Today at 2 P.M. actors from the Performing Ensemble will re-create an incident that took place in Hartford in 1851, when John Hooker, a lawyer, arranged for a fugitive slave to buy his freedom for $1.
Admission is free to the hour-long performance that will take place at the Harriet Beecher Stowe Center, 77 Forest Street in Hartford. The number for more information is (860) 522-9258.
A year after obtaining his freedom, the former slave wrote a letter to Harriet Beecher Stowe, containing the following passage: "After opening my bosom as a fugitive to John Hooker, Esq., I felt this much relief -- thank God there is one brother-man in hard old Connecticut that knows my troubles."
Hooker was a descendant of the city's founder, and the former slave went on to serve as pastor of churches in Hartford and New Haven. He was the Rev. Dr. James W. C. Pennington. Pennington, who became a prominent abolitionist, is said to have inspired the character portrayed by Morgan Freeman in "Amistad."
A portrait of Pennington, who died in 1870 at the age of 61, is among several daguerrotypes and photographs from the late 19th and early 20th centuries that are on a map called "Historic Sites in the Settlement of African-Americans in Connecticut."
Produced by the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation, the poster-sized map is available for $16, including postage and handling, from the Trust, 940 Whitney Avenue, Hamden, 06517, or by calling (203) 562-6312 and using a credit card.
The map contains the routes of the Underground Railroad, the first African-American church in the state (founded in New Haven in 1820), a primary school for African-Americans (opened in 1803 in Colchester), the Windsor summer home of Joseph Rainey (the first African-American Congressman), Sarah Mix(the Torrington faith healer) and evidence of neighborhoods settled by African-Americans as far back as 1740 in communities from Greenwich to Putnam.
 
Expanding the League
There is a League of Women Voters in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Made up of Muslim, Croat and Serb women, the organization recently celebrated its first anniversary, having modeled itself after the League in the United States.
Kay Maxwell, vice president of the Greenwich chapter, spent a month in Sarajevo and Mostar last summer with four other League members from the United States, conducting workshops in advance of elections. She will talk about her experiences on Friday at noon at the Greenwich Y.W.C.A., 259 East Putnam Avenue (Route 1).
Ms. Maxwell will also touch on her visit to Uruguay last October, where she represented the League at a conference called "Vital Voices of the Americas: Women in Democracy."
The program is open to the public free of charge and without reservations. Attendees are invited to bring their lunch or buy it there.
 
On Stage at Wesleyan
A Wesleyan University student production of "Jesus Christ Superstar" has relocated the show's setting to the Jewish ghetto of Prague during World War II. It will be performed in black box style with audience members seated on the stage of the Center for the Arts Theater on High Street in Middletown. Curtain time on Friday is 8 P.M., Saturday at 2 and 8 P.M., and next Sunday at 7 P.M.
Figures in the original Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber work have been recast as individuals and groups within wartime Prague, including the key character -- a Jewish political leader trying to raise morale in desperate times. The musical score has been altered to accommodate a six-piece jazz ensemble performing under the direction of Aaron Weiss. Dani Snyder has directed the production and Sara Lesin is the choreographer. Admission is $1.
 
On Death Row
Wesleyan University is also the site of a program today from 3 to 5 P.M. in the Science Center on Church Street, featuring Sister Helen Prejean, author of "Dead Man Walking." Sister Prejean will share the podium with Gerard A. Smyth, Chief Public Defender for Connecticut, in a discussion of the death penalty and the legal status of six men who are on death row in the state.
The event is sponsored by the Connecticut Network to Abolish the Death Penalty, Catholic Women Against Capital Punishment, Wesleyan Students Against Capital Punishment and the Rebellious Lawyering Conference at the Yale University Law School.
Admission is by donation of $5, free to students and people over 64. For information: (860) 522-5995.
 
The Future of Farming
A statewide public agricultural forum, titled "Connecticut Agriculture: Focus on the Future," is to be held on Wednesday from 8 A.M. to 4 P.M. at the Holiday Inn in Cromwell.
Boosting support for the state's dwindling farms, its agricultural activity and natural resources is the primary purpose of the gathering, organized by the Connecticut Agricultural Information Council and the Connecticut Resource Conservation and Development Councils.
Building such support will be discussed by State Representative William R. Dyson, Democrat of New Haven. "Connecticut Agriculture and Environmental Focus to the 21st Century" will be the topic for Kip Kolesinskas, a state soil scientist. Ron Young, from the Maryland Department of Economic Development, will talk about "Agriculture in a Sprawling Society," while Art Brown, Secretary of Agriculture for New Jersey, will speak on "The Jersey Fresh Story and Farmland Preservation."
Other subjects include diversity and family farming, aquaculture, dairy technology, government initiatives, agricultural tourism, and public relations efforts. Registration costs $20 and includes lunch. For information or to register: (860) 713-2503. ELEANOR CHARLES
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Dr. James W. C. Pennington as a fugitive slave was freed in Hartford in 1851. At Yale Rep, Danny Hoch plays nine roles in a play written for one actor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS (74%); WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS (74%); WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); THEATER (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); HEROIN (67%); RELIGION (65%); HISTORY (62%); HISTORIC SITES (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



458 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 11; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Westport Sends Aid to Honduras

BYLINE: By JARRET LIOTTA 

 BODY:
JUST who gets more out of an exchange between several villages in Honduras and some residents of Westport may be arguable. Residents of isolated villages near the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa are getting a much-needed emergency medical center. But a group of Westport teen-agers are getting invaluable life experience.
The exchange is sponsored by the Kingdom Builders, an organization that might be described as a cross between Habitat for Humanity and Outward Bound. The group -- which was originally organized by a Congregational minister, the Rev. Annette Nielsen -- helps teen-agers raise money and go to a distant community where need exists, and then build something to address that need. 
 Six years ago, when Ms. Nielsen relocated to Virginia, John and Jeri Skinner, and their adult son, Craig, of Westport were asked to keep the group going. On March 13 they will lead 42 high school students on an eight-day trip to El Jicarito, Honduras, where they will build a small medical center. The $50,000 needed for expenses and all necessary supplies and building materials will have been raised by the young people -- $1,200 a person is the goal. All work will be completed by the group, who look to have one of the more remarkable experiences of their lives.
"There's a very strong bond that you grow between all the different kingdom builders, and it's something very special that doesn't happen anywhere else," said 17-year old Lucas Anderson, who made his first trip last year with the group when they went to Brazil to build a school.
In part that bond grows out of a dependency the students have on one another in a foreign land. But even before the trip begins, fund-raising helps bring the students together. And that's one of the most important elements of a program that encourages students who live in one of the most affluent areas of the United States to earn their own way.
"They need only have a desire to go, and they have to be willing to work hard to go somewhere to work hard," said Jeri Skinner, 60, who runs a conference planning conference business. "Mother and Dad aren't allowed to pay," she says, "so it's a serious commitment."
Despite the hard work it takes to get there, the Skinners have a waiting list of students who want to participate. They say they take only as many young people as will fit on one bus, allowing space for the nine adult chaperones who accompany the group.
Adults from various walks of life (though no parents of participants) join the group, which in recent years has gone to Brazil and Ecuador as well as to Louisiana and Virginia, working on projects including a family crisis center, a day care center, a homeless shelter and a school.
"We're mostly just adults there to be responsible for the minors," said Craig Skinner, 36. "We don't really assume a real leadership role per se, as we try to let the kids lead themselves."
Self-direction, he said, it part of what enables the young people to learn and grow. "It's a phenomenal thing that happens," he said. "These kids really learn more than you could from a book or from a film."
"I joined as an advisor in 1991," said John Skinner, a 62-year-old airline pilot. When Ms. Nielsen, the Congregational minister invented the program, it was more focused on building houses in faraway place. When she left for another job in 1993, the students who had traveled to Mexico the previous year begged Mr. and Mrs. Skinner to take over the program. "We just adopted it more for building projects that benefited the community, rather than individual homes," said Mr. Skinner.
He praised the opportunity for students to learn self-discipline, as well as other things. "They learn they can do something they didn't think they would do," he said. "Many of them have had no close relationship with a hammer. They learn to work as a group. And they learn to do something that's not for themselves."
"Everyone usually is really, really thankful that you're there," said Andy Hanflik, 17, who will be making his third trip with the group. "Everyone's really appreciative."
He said that one of the most important benefits was the opportunity to learn how different life is in other places.
"What we see every day is people going to New York, people going to work or whatever," he said, unlike the agricultural economy he encountered in Brazil. "I've learned that just because something is the way we see it every day, that doesn't mean it's the only way of doing it."
He spoke of one disturbing, yet fascinating experience he encountered on the last trip, where he watched farmers slaughter a pig for food. "It really was an eye-opening experience," he said. "It really puts things in context."
Katie Mason, 16, was also moved by her experience with the group. "Going to Brazil really made me appreciate Westport," she said, "but it also kind of made me look at it in disgust in a way, because there's so much we have that is unnecessary."
Katie Peterson, 16, was still surprised to find in her two previous visits with the group that a lack of wealth didn't keep the people in these areas from being happy.
"They're really happy and they're so friendly," she said. "It's just amazing to me. People here are so mean. And they're so privileged and they just don't realize it."
"Fairfield County is not the real world," said Mrs. Skinner, who cherishes the opportunity to show young people how big the world really is.
The Skinners hope to expand the program into other towns. Recently Julie Kelsey, a Fairfield resident, began trying to replicate the program for adults in her church, hoping to organize 25 to 30 people to go to Honduras in April to pick up where the students leave off.
"It was something I felt called to do," said Ms. Kelsey, who would like to organize a group for Fairfield teen-agers the following year. "I believe that lives are changed by something like that. In this area we are so blessed, so it's important to share what we have." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONDURAS (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEGUCIGALPA, HONDURAS (73%); 

COMPANY: KINGDOM BUILDERS (ORGN) OUTWARD BOUND (57%); HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (57%); HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: KINGDOM BUILDERS (ORGN) OUTWARD BOUND (57%); HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (57%); HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONDURAS; EL JICARITO (HONDURAS); HONDURAS (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); TEGUCIGALPA, HONDURAS (73%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH ADOLESCENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (71%); RELOCATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: LIOTTA, JARRET CRAIG SKINNER (76%); ANNETTE NIELSEN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



459 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: The State's First Battlefield In Deregulating the Utilities

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH MAKER 

 BODY:
THE town of New Milford has begun an unusual offensive against a California electric utility that wants to build a $280 million natural gas-fired power plant in a rural section of town near the Housatonic River.
Mayor Arthur J. Peitler wants to stop Sempra Energy Resources, a San Diego-based concern, from constructing the 530-megawatt plant by simply taking the 145-acre site on Route 7 from the company by exercising the town's power of eminent domain. 
 And to measure public opinion on whether the plant should be built, the New Milford Town Council has scheduled a town-wide, nonbinding referendum for March 2.
New Milford is not alone in debating the merits of building an electric generating plant in Connecticut. Because of state legislation deregulating the electric power industry and opening the monopoly of local utilities to a free market starting next Jan. 1, 13 power plants are being proposed for 12 towns and cities across the state.
So far, three projects have been approved by the state's Siting Council -- for Bridgeport, Milford and Killingly; the Bridgeport plant is the only one now under construction. Those communities and a few others have embraced the projects for economic reasons.
But other communities, like Oxford, Haddam, Southington and Wallingford, are waging opposition in varying degrees to stop the plants.
The issue may be most contentious in New Milford. Initially Mayor Peitler said he thought the Sempra project might have merit because of the tax revenue it would bring to the town. In explaining his opposition now, the Mayor said he was concerned about what he said was the utility's unwillingness to comply with various requests for proof that its project would be safe. Several environmental consultants, residents and doctors have asked that a year-long study of the proposed site be conducted, to make sure that any toxins emitted from the plant's twin 213-foot-smokestacks would be properly dispersed into the atmosphere rather than settling in the valley.
Sempra wants to build the 112,817-square-foot plant 1.5 miles north of the New Milford town center, between Route 7 and Candlewood Mountain, on the site of the former Rocky River Gravel Mine. To produce enough power daily to supply 500,000 homes, the plant would use 85.3 million cubic feet of natural gas (by tapping into the Iroquois pipeline, which runs through the property) and 288,000 gallons of water from aquifers feeding the town's water supply. Mayor Peitler said he asked Sempra officials to delay their project for a year while on-site meteorological tests are conducted, but the company declined. Sempra maintains that, according to state and Federal laws, it is only required to use weather data recorded at Bradley International Airport, 40 miles away in Windsor Locks. The utility has volunteered to do its own on-site testing during the state's review of its application, and continually once the plant is operating, but it says it is not willing to hold its plans in abeyance for a year.
"This is simply not acceptable to me as Mayor of this town," Mr. Peitler said. "No one, no matter how big or powerful, will dictate how we conduct our business or how we plan our future."
Mr. Peitler, a lawyer who had his own practice in town before taking office in 1996, said he would first try to negotiate buying the property from Sempra, and if that failed, resort to eminent domain proceedings (which simply means a government's taking of private land for public use). He envisions building a business park on the site and having the town lease office space.
Sempra representatives were piqued by the Mayor's announcement, and said they had no intention of packing up their plans and heading home. "We're extremely disappointed," said Mark Haarer, Sempra's public affairs manager. "I am proud of the way Sempra Energy has conducted itself over the past several months," working hard to answer community concerns, he said. "And this is the way we're thanked -- with eminent domain."
A company lawyer, David Bennett of Danbury, said Sempra was "in no way interested" in negotiating to sell the land to the town. The utility bought the property in Federal Bankruptcy Court in May for $2.7 million, including $700,000 in back taxes. But the town would have to pay much more than that to cover its fair value to the company and its shareholders, Mr. Bennett said. A starting figure for any negotiations would be at the value of the plant, he said, which is $280 million. "It would basically bankrupt the municipality."
Mr. Bennett disputed Mr. Peitler's assurance that the town has the legal right to take the property. "The State Siting Council has primary jurisdiction in these matters," he said. "The town doesn't have a case here" for claiming the land through eminent domain, since such action is typically only taken when the government can prove a need for the property, he added.
Mr. Bennett called the Mayor's plan "nothing more than a desperate act by a desperate candidate in an election year." Mr. Peitler is up for re-election in November and no opponent has yet emerged.
A group called Power Alert, formed by a former Mayor, Liba Furhman, has gathered more than 6,000 signatures on a petition to stop the project. The group recently sponsored a $100-a-ticket brunch to raise money for its legal defense fund against Sempra.
The event was organized by a Power Alert member, Diane von Furstenberg, the designer, who has owned property in town for 25 years. "I love this town and I'll do whatever it takes to protect it," she said at the brunch, which was attended by more than 200 people. "My concerns are with the pollutants and how they could endanger our health and the environment, and also, esthetically, what this plant would do to the whole area. We've just got to scare these guys out."
Also attending the brunch was the State Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, who has opposed the Sempra project, primarily because of New Milford's hilly topography and the theory that emissions would be trapped in the valley. "There is great risk of environmental damage at this particular site, with no reliable data to prove otherwise," Mr. Blumenthal said. "I can't stop this project alone," he added, looking out at the crowd eating omelets and rallying support for the cause, "but this kind of citizen involvement should have a dramatic effect."
According to Sempra, the plant would emit annually 226 tons of nitrous oxide, a precursor to ground-level ozone, which affects the respiratory system, as well as 158 tons of particulate matter, 10 tons of sulfur dioxide, and 49 tons of carbon monoxide. Those figures worry members of New Milford Hospital's medical staff, who recently issued a statement outlining their concern.
A New Milford pediatrician, Dr. Josef Burton, said, "I've been practicing in New Milford for 20 years, and I can tell you we've got more respiratory problems around here than anywhere else in the state," Dr. Burton said. "For anybody with asthma or any kind of respiratory disease, this plant's going to make life a lot worse."
Sempra officials deny that. "I find it interesting that the doctors, of all people, didn't look for a second opinion," said Mr. Haarer. "With all due respect to the doctors, they are not air quality experts."
According to the project manager, William Keller, the toxins that people would inhale from the plant over one year would equal those breathed in a single day in Manhattan. "We are absolutely certain we will be one of the cleanest, safest operations in the country," he said during a recent tour of the property. He looked across the Housatonic River at a white plume billowing from Nestle Corporation's smokestacks. "That's mainly water vapor," Mr. Keller said.
"You won't see that with our plant because we're investing $15 million for an air-cooled condenser," rather than using a wet-cooling system, he added. Catching a whiff of something redolent of rotten eggs emanating from the Nestle plant, a Sempra spokesman, William Neagus, added, "And you won't smell anything like that. This is a really clean operation."
Sempra officials plan to build about 20 such power plants across the country over the next five years, which would make the company one of the five largest energy companies in the world, according to the Sempra Web site. So far, one Sempra plant has been approved and is under construction in Nevada.
Sempra representatives say the plant would be a boon to New Milford. They say it would generate $39 million in tax revenue over the first 20 years, making it the town's largest taxpayer, and would create about 25 permanent jobs.
This all sounded appealing to Mayor Peitler at first, but after months of being besieged by Mrs. Furhman's group and hearing the concerns of environmental consultants, he joined in on the offensive. One consultant, Dr. Bruce Egan of Massachusetts, said in his report that Sempra's air-permit application for the plant was deficient and followed poor engineering practice. "From an air pollution standpoint," he said, "it is hard to imagine a worse site in the state."
Sempra said the report was biased because it was commissioned by Power Alert and other local environmental groups.
An environmental study done by the Windsor-based TRC Environmental Corporation, which the town hired for $65,000, had not been made public as of last Wednesday.
Mrs. Furhman said the Mayor seemeds to have made up his mind, and the majority of residents couldn't be happier: "I think it's terrific that the Mayor finally came out with some action against this plant," she said. "It's an issue that obviously will wind up in court, but at least we're taking a unified stand."
For the plant to be built, the proposal must be presented to New Milford's Zoning Commission and Inland Wetlands Commission, and it must receive permits from the State Department of Environmental Protection and the State Siting Council. The Zoning Commission has scheduled public hearings on the proposal for Thursday and Friday at 7 P.M. at New Milford High School. The Siting Council, which has the power to override any local decisions, will hold a hearing March 23 at Schaghticoke Middle School, starting at 3 P.M.
"I think the concerns being raised in New Milford are legitimate and will be taken into consideration," said the Siting Council's executive director, Joel Rinebold. "As you can imagine, we've got our work cut out for us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sempra Energy Resources of California, which wants to build an electric generating plant at the foot of Candlewood Mountain in New Milford, floated tethered balloons at the site recently to show residents the height of the plant's emission stacks. (Photographs by Don Heiny for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Map of New York shows location of Milford: A former New Milford gravel mine is the site of a planned power plant. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SRE (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SEMPRA ENERGY (92%); NEW MILFORD TOWN COUNCIL (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW MILFORD TOWN COUNCIL (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MILFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (93%); POWER PLANTS (92%); DEREGULATION (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (91%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); CITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY SITING (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); WEATHER (73%); EMINENT DOMAIN (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (71%); APPROVALS (70%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (67%); WATER QUALITY (60%); REFERENDUMS (55%); AIRPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: MAKER, ELIZABETH ARTHUR J PEITLER (88%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); DAVID BENNETT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



460 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1960 words

HEADLINE: $4 Million Added to the Fight Against Lead Poisoning

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
NOBODY needs to tell Jose Vele that there are more than 78,000 children in Westchester at risk for lead poisoning. And no one has to tell him that more than half of the houses in the county were built before 1950 when lead paint was used.
Certainly no one has to tell him that swallowing even tiny particles of lead can cause behavioral problems in small children and eventually result in brain damage. 
 Mr. Vele knows all that.
"I just wish someone had told me before I bought my home," he said somberly during a recent interview.
A $4 million grant from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development announced earlier this month will pay for lead removal and containment in homes like Mr. Vele's and prevent new cases like Jasmine's from developing.
Mr. Vele, an immigrant from Ecuador who lives in Peekskill, is a cook in a restaurant by day, delivers newspapers in the early morning hours and grabs a few hours of sleep when he can.
When he arrived in this country 14 years ago, he believed that hard work and long hours would be worth the effort if it meant enough money for a down payment on his American dream: a house of his own.
These days, however, what Mr. Vele feels is sadness -- along with a bone-deep weariness resulting from crushed dreams. "I paid $125,000 for this house and bought a lot of problems," he said.
His 3-year-old daughter Jasmine is recovering from lead poisoning, the result of her father's efforts to restore his two-family, turn-of-the century home.
"One room was painted red, another blue," Mr. Vele recalled. "It was terrible, forget about it." Together, he and his wife Julia scraped and sanded the floors, removed the old paint from the window sills and worked at putting their home in order. When Jasmine was a few months old and cried to be picked up, Mrs. Vele stopped her work and fed and coddled the little girl.
But by the time Jasmine was a toddler, her behavior had grown unstable, her appetite had diminished and she was often upset and nervous.
The cause of her problems, doctors at a nearby clinic said: escalating lead levels in the youngster's bloodstream.
Tests showed 29 micrograms of lead per deciliter of Jasmine's blood. The Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta considers levels of 10 micrograms of lead per deciliter dangerous, although Westchester uses 20 micrograms or more of lead as its official measure of poisoning.
Jasmine was given pills to leach the lead from her body (a process called chelation), and she was fed a diet rich in iron and calcium to counteract the effects of the poisoning. Lead levels in her blood soon dropped to 6 micrograms. "Thank God, she seems fine now," Mr. Vele said, relieved for the moment but uncertain about the future. Although there remains a lot of work to do on the house, that will have to wait for now, Mr. Vele said. The first problem is the lead that the county says remains in the window sashes, which will have to be removed professionally to contain the poisonous dust.
To combat the problem throughout the United States, the Housing Secretary, Andrew M. Cuomo, has awarded $56.3 million in grants to state and local governments, nonprofit community groups, public relations companies and research organizations for lead control and abatement projects.
Researchers at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore have called lead poisoning the No. 1 environmental threat in the United States. It is a potentially devastating disease that threatens about 5 percent of American preschoolers. When lead-based paint peels and chips off older walls, it can be inhaled and cause permanent damage. Learning disabilities, IQ loss and occasionally comas and convulsions are among the symptoms. Other effects include reduced attention span, hearing loss, stunted growth, reading and learning problems and behavioral difficulties.
Nationally, 890,000 children have high levels of lead in their systems, and most do not know it, the General Accounting Office recently reported. Also, an estimated 400,000 poor children with elevated lead levels in their blood have not been screened under Medicaid and other Federal health programs despite a Federal law that requires such testing, Congressional investigators recently concluded.
Of those children with lead poisoning, 22 percent are black, statistics from the Centers for Disease Control show. There were no figures available for Hispanic children.
Contrary to the common perception that lead poisoning is an affliction of low-income families -- often a result of living in old or substandard housing -- health care workers are reporting a new trend: increasing numbers of children from middle- and upper-income families with elevated levels, which is sometimes called "yuppie lead poisoning."
"Especially with the proliferation of do-it-yourself stores out there, people of all income levels are renovating their homes," said Annarelly Conde, coordinator of the Regional Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Resource Center at the Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle. "The problem is not confined to a single class."
There is some good news, however: among all classes the number of lead poisoning cases is down sharply since 1997, when 1.7 million cases were documented by the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta, said Peter Ragone, a spokesman for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The 48 percent decline is in large part attributable to the effectiveness of lead information and education campaigns, he said.
In New York, 40 percent fewer children were diagnosed with lead poisoning in 1996 than in 1994, State Health Department officials said. A total of 2,597 children were diagnosed in 1996 with lead poisoning, or six-tenths of 1 percent of those screened, according to the Health Department. In 1994, 4,237 tested positive, or about 1 percent of the children screened.
County Executive Andrew J. Spano has said the county has an "extreme problem" with lead paint. Last year the Health Department cited 86 new cases of lead poisoning in children. But those numbers are reportedly falling. The county reported 154 cases in 1995 and 100 new cases in Westchester in 1997.
But Cathleen Breen, a spokeswoman for the New York Public Interest Group, an advocacy organization, said it was questioning New York's numbers. The extent of lead poisoning in children in the state continues to be underreported, the group claims. Not all children are being screened as required by law, Ms. Breen said. Also, the state only reports new cases, not the number of existing ones. Therefore, children with harmful blood lead levels one year may still have harmful bloods levels the next year. The State Department of Health also reports only confirmed cases, which means that children who were once at elevated levels must be confirmed with second tests. If there is no follow-up, those children will not be counted.
Westchester's aggressive approach to the problem was in part responsible for making it the biggest winner in the competition for Federal funds to eradicate lead paint from homes. The county had the best screening rate in the state -- 86.7 percent -- for children 2 and younger, who are especially at risk of damage from lead contamination, according to the State Department of Health.
Another factor was the high percentage of the housing stock in Westchester, like the Vele's house, which still wears old paint -- even though lead-based paint was banned from use in private homes beginning in 1978.
The county's grant was the largest among 46 awarded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and Westchester was the only governmental entity in the state to receive one.
Dr. Harold N. Adel, the county's Health Commissioner, said the problem was not about ascertaining lead poisoning but how to pay for removal of lead from people's living quarters. "We can order an abatement, but the question up until now has been how to fund it," he said. "How do we close the loop from screening to abatement?"
Young children will benefit most from the grants, because the developing nervous systems of children younger than 6 are particularly vulnerable to damage from lead. In addition, the normal play activities of children -- in particular the propensity to put their hands and other objects in their mouths -- can expose them to lead-based paint hazards, which can include lead-contaminated dust, soil and paint chips.
Since 1993, the State Department of Health has required all children to be screened for lead poisoning twice before they are 2 -- when they are 1 year old and again at 2 years.
Parents of children with confirmed levels over 10 micrograms of lead per deciliter must be provided with risk-reduction education, nutritional counseling to reduce absorption of ingested lead and periodic blood testing, according to state law.
Children with levels of 20 micrograms or more must be repeatedly seen by doctors. Also, on-site evaluations of the dangers in the houses are conducted, as in Mr. Vele's case.
Also, when a child younger than 6 is enrolled in a day-care or preschool program, parents must provide proof that the child has been screened for lead poisoning, according to the law.
Meanwhile, it is still being determined whether pregnant women can transmit lead to their developing fetuses, said Dr. Richard A. Noto, chief of pediatric endocrinology at New York Medical College in Valhalla and director of the lead program there. "But kids born with high levels have more learning problems later on," said Dr. Noto, who also oversees a lead program at Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle and at St. Agnes Hospital in White Plains. "The earlier the high level sets in, the more damage it can do."
Under the grant, the county's Planning Department, in collaboration with the County Department of Health, will provide assistance for lead hazard control in an estimated 100 privately owned, rental and owner-occupied units and 350 Section 8 tenant- based housing units. The grant program in Westchester also includes aid for 50 low-income or unemployed members of the community to take part in an accredited lead worker certification training program.
Lawrence C. Salley, the county's Deputy Planning Commissioner, said the county's lead abatement program gives first priority to houses where children with lead poisoning live. The Planning Department also considers the income of the tenants, not the landlord, to determine if they qualify for the lead-abatement program, he said.
Under Federal guidelines, a family of four must have an income of less than $59,000. The same is true for owner-occupied houses.
Also under the grant, the county's Department of Social Services has identified 50 welfare recipients to be trained in lead removal in a two-day program certified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. The workers will be hired by lead-abatement contractors and paid above minimum wage, Mr. Salley said.
For now, though, news of the grant offers little solace for residents whose children have already been poisoned. Although Jasmine is now feeling better, Mr. Vele wants only to move out of the house that, he said, "brought me all this trouble." He also had to spend $1,200 to have asbestos removed from the basement.
"I want to move away from these problems and out to the country, maybe to a farm," he said. "I worry a lot about my kids."
The Department of Housing and Urban Development has a toll-free information line, (800) 424-5323, which gives callers information in English and Spanish about lead hazards and disclosure requirements for people selling and renting homes. More information is also available from the County Planning Department at 285-3255.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Vele did not know that the lead paint he sanded at his Peekskill house could harm his daughter, Jasmine. Jesse Brown of the County Health Department uses a gunlike device with a meter, below, to check for lead. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Vele house is one of many that predate the 1950 ban on lead paint. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PEEKSKILL (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LEAD; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES LEAD (92%); LEAD POISONING (91%); CHILDREN (90%); POISONINGS (90%); LEAD PAINT (90%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (68%); NUTRITION (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (59%); CITIES (54%); 

PERSON: VELE, JOSE; BRENNER, ELSA JOSE VELE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



461 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 3; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: ON THE MAP;
The State's Mother Lode of Invention

BYLINE: By ERIC EPSTEIN 

 BODY:
Based at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, the Inventors Hall of Fame honors past New Jersey inventors and encourages new ones. 
 Founded in 1989, the hall has inducted about 150 men and women, from Edison and Einstein to less familiar names, and it installs new members each February, the month of Edison's birth.
This year's inductees, installed last week, are Arthur Schawlow and Charles Townes for inventing the laser; Cyrus Bemmels for packaging tape; Willis Haviland Carrier for the air-conditioner; Haig Kafafian for communication systems for the physically impaired, and Morton Kreitchman for fluid control valves for the aerospace, nuclear, biomedical and chemical industries.
Harry Roman, 50, of East Orange, is president of the New Jersey Inventors Congress, which runs the hall. Mr. Roman, a technology developer and transfer consultant at Public Service Electric and Gas, recently talked about the Hall of Fame.
Q. What is the hall's mission?
A. There are two main goals of the Hall of Fame. The first is to promote and foster creativity, innovation and invention, and thereby contribute to economic growth and improve the quality of life in New Jersey. And then to honor New Jersey inventors and encourage recognition of New Jersey as the Invention State.
Q. Why should New Jersey be known as the Invention State?
A. If you look at the number of engineers, scientists and inventors per square foot in a state like ours, you find it's enormous. You find a lot of multinational corporations with research facilities in the state. And, of course, it's the home of Thomas Edison, the granddaddy of them all.
 Q. What has been invented in New Jersey?
A. You'd be amazed. A number of years back, I was sitting at my desk, in the basement of my home. And I was looking for the nomination for Dr. Sue Wilson, now retired, from Colgate-Palmolive. And I'm reading Dr. Wilson's form. And my wife says to me, how's it going? And as she says that she's holding a detergent in her hand that was invented by Dr. Wilson. The common turf grass that we use was invented by C. Reed Funk, from Rutgers University. And then there's Karl Jansky, from Bell Labs in Murray Hill. His work led to the development of radio astronomy. James Hillier -- he invented the electron microscope. And Les Paul invented the electric guitar.
Q. Who created the Hall of Fame?
A. The Hall of Fame goes back to a fellow who's now deceased, Philip Sperber, an N.J.I.T. alumnus. Phil came up with the idea of having something to denote all the inventive activity in the state. He began his quest in this area in 1987, 1988, and we gave our first awards out in 1989. Q. The criteria for the Hall ?
A. We look at its utility and socioeconomic value. We look at the commercial impact. And how does it advance the state of the art? If it's not commercially viable, we would say no, you're not ready. There are actually three categories. First, we have the actual Hall of Fame. Then we have a new category, which we call Inventor of the Year. The third category we call special awards, and these are for things like young inventors, small business inventors, enduring popularity awards.
Q. Have you noticed any trend in inventions?
A. As an inventor myself, I know that the waiting time for patents has gone up considerably. And I think that has a lot to do with downsizing, where people say, now is the time to go ahead with that idea I've had in the back of my head. ERIC EPSTEIN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Only a modest plaque marks the Inventors Hall of Fame, but the inventors' impact on daily life is considerable. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY INVENTORS CONGRESS PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO (69%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (53%); BELL LABORATORIES (51%); INVENTORS HALL OF FAME (95%); NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY INVENTORS CONGRESS INVENTORS HALL OF FAME (95%); NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INVENTIONS AND INVENTORS; HALLS OF FAME SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENGINEERING (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); ELECTRON MICROSCOPES (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (65%); CHEMICALS (55%); CHEMICALS MFG (55%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ROMAN, HARRY; EPSTEIN, ERIC THOMAS EDISON (67%); SUE WILSON (63%); HARRY ROMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



462 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
A Speech We'll Never Hear From Alan Greenspan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Despite his reputation for deliberate opacity, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, actually speaks quite directly about the outlook for the economy and interest rates. Still, there may be limits to any Fed chairman's forthrightness. Rest assured that when he goes before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday for the first round of this year's Humphrey-Hawkins testimony, he will not say the following, no matter how much he might want to.
 THANK YOU. I always enjoy this opportunity to indulge members of Congress in the fantasy that they understand monetary policy, and to prepare Wall Street for the next trick up my sleeve.
Let's start by reviewing 1998. You might remember me saying in September that no nation could remain an oasis of prosperity unaffected by what was going on in the rest of the world. 
 Boy, was I wrong! Japan remains in the tank, and the rest of Asia is only starting to breathe on its own. Emerging economies from Russia to Brazil are already in free fall or teetering on the brink. Europe is doing nothing to help, and may itself be headed for a downward slide. Yet the American economy is not only shrugging off the rest of the world's woes, it is also showing remarkable strength.
The economic growth rate in the fourth quarter -- 5.6 percent, annualized -- may wind up being revised downward somewhat. But heading into 1999 the United States was not just an oasis, it was a veritable economic Garden of Eden.
Speaking of sin, I'll confess to my own. That last interest rate cut -- the quarter-point reduction in the Federal funds and discount rates in November -- was a mistake. The economy certainly didn't need it. And while I'm sure my central-banker friends around the world appreciated it, its main effect at home was to send stocks higher.
I really should have held off, keeping that quarter point in my ammo belt just in case Brazil melts down or some other conflagration breaks out in the global financial system, and we need another shot of monetary easing. Now, if I have to cut rates further, Wall Street is going to spurt up into cloud-cuckoo-land.
 EVERYONE knows my feelings about equity valuations, but let me try this one more time: You people are bonkers if you think earnings are going to hold up over the next year, much less increase at a double-digit pace. So if you're buying on the basis of price-to-earnings multiples, stop deluding yourselves -- you're all day traders now.
Since we central bankers have to consider all the possibilities, let's look at another: that growth remains so strong this year that the hawks start agitating for a rate increase to head off any chance of inflation taking root.
Raising rates now, while there are no signs of inflation to speak of, would bring the wrath of the business establishment down on me and make the Fed a political issue heading into the 2000 election. I'm willing to take the heat for a tough call if necessary. But we might have been able to avoid the need for tighter policy if we had just stayed pat last fall after the first two quarter-point rate cuts, which left the Fed funds target rate at 5 percent.
Then there is the question of how investors would respond to even a small rate increase. One thing I've learned is that it is impossible to let the air out of a stock market bubble slowly. When this thing goes, it could well explode with a bang that will hit the real economy hard.
 WHO knows? Even a small rate increase at the wrong time could set off a chain reaction that we would regret deeply.
Clearly, that's one reason you are all listening so attentively for any sign that we see a need for tightening later this year. The monetarists on the Open Market Committee are already pressing for us to adopt a tightening bias, and with some justification.
The Phillips Curve crowd, led by Larry Meyer, keeps asking how long our streak of good luck on inflation will last, and they have a point. There has to come a day when all the world's economic winds will not chance to blow our way at the same time. Oil prices will not remain depressed forever. The dollar could weaken, or global demand could recover; either would drive up the prices we pay for imported goods. And eventually it will dawn on workers that they now have the upper hand and can demand higher pay. Even I don't think we can sustain a 4 percent annual growth rate and a 4.3 percent unemployment rate forever without seeing wages and prices start creeping higher.
But this economy has proved remarkably resilient, and I am inclined to bet that we can make it at least until summer without a compelling need for a rate increase.
No guarantees, now -- the potential for surprises, both happy and nasty, is too great. But with inflation virtually nonexistent, we've got an opportunity to be patient, and plenty of time to react if wage and price pressures start to build.
So until things break one way or the other, we're on hold.
Any questions? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



463 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
Bread, and the Missing Ingredient

BYLINE: By ELAINE LOUIE 

 BODY:
"YOU'RE late!" screamed Jim Lahey, the 32-year-old founder of Sullivan Street Bakery, which some magazines have called the best bakery in New York City. It was 7:07 on a cold winter morning, and a visitor was 7 minutes late.
And this was his good-natured yelping. 
 Mr. Lahey is a success despite his screaming, and despite the handwritten sign on the bulletin board of the upstairs office: "How to use phone system -- less screaming."
Manuel Lema, one of the two head bakers, has survived Mr. Lahey's management style for three of the bakery's five years. But in early 1999, Mr. Lema said, "He screams less."
What has reduced his bellowing of instructions on how to make bread -- it needs more water, it needs more salt, it fermented too long -- has been the sweetness of success.
Mr. Lahey practices artisanal baking, which means his goods are in part handmade. Such baking has grown more and more popular in the city and the nation over the last decade, as it produces flavorful breads and near-endless variety.
Each day, Mr. Lahey, his two head bakers and a staff of 33 workers bake, sell and deliver their wares to more than 200 places, from restaurants like Jean Claude's and Novita to food stores like Fairway, Citarella and Balducci's, and run a retail counter as well. They use 4,400 pounds of dough daily and transform it into eight different kinds of flavorful, light breads.
"Ingest, digest, ingest, digest," Mr. Lahey chanted. "It's digestible. It's palatable."
The daily output, seven days a week, includes 3,000 Pane Pugliese loaves, which are one-foot-long dark brown ovals of sourdough, the crust thick and crackling and the inside chewy and filled with fat, irregular holes. Two thousand ciabata, which are pale, thin-crusted, three-inch rolls that are designed to fit in the hand, are made daily, too, as are 30 pizza biancas. The pizzas are lightly sprinkled with rosemary or topped with paper-thin slices of roasted celery root, Italian mushrooms or, when it's in season in the spring, baby artichokes.
The 2,000-square-foot shop on Sullivan Street, near Spring Street, is successful enough to pay the bread sellers, who work at the counter, $18,000 to start and the head bakers now make around $40,000.
In fact, Mr. Lahey has plans to expand. "We're looking for another space in New York," confirmed Joe Allen, the restaurateur and the bakery's chief financial backer, with a stake of $500,000 riding on Mr. Lahey's vision of artisanal bread.
The two men met in 1993, when Mr. Lahey knocked on the back door of Mr. Allen's restaurant Orso, on West 46th Street, and asked if he could make some pizzas and breads -- without charge. If they liked it, could they then talk business?
"The turn-on to bread was in 1987, my first trip to Italy," Mr. Lahey said. He had left the School of Visual Arts, where he created performance art pieces that poked fun at the SoHo art market, and gone to Italy that summer to learn the language and look at art.
"Every day I was boring into the language books, poring over every Italian conjugation," he said.
But he also discovered great Italian bread.
Unlike American varieties, "It had flavor, it had textures," he said. For several summers thereafter he went back to Italy and learned to make bread at bakeries in Rome, Genzano and San Gimignano.
When he came back to the United States after the summer of 1991, he plunged into what he now calls "the year of 37 jobs."
He helped open an art shop on La Guardia Place, handed out fliers on the street, worked at a photocopy store and baked focaccia at Arqua, a TriBeCa restaurant.
He was also involved in a difficult relationship. "To prolong the relationship I'd bake bread all evening," he said. "and she'd have fresh bread at 5 A.M."
After that year, "I took stock of myself," Mr. Lahey said. "Along the waterfront, I had a Sartrean realization, a feeling of nausea that I could have a different job every week for the rest of my life, and at 75, I could be at Kinko's." He concluded, "I was unemployable."
So in the summer of 1993, Mr. Lahey knocked on the door at Orso, where he met Julie Lumia, Mr. Allen's daughter and the restaurant's executive chef and part owner. For two weeks, Mr. Lahey baked for no charge. Mr. Allen, Ms. Lumia and others sampled the Tuscan breads and a potato-dough focaccia with sun-dried tomatoes, red onions and sage. They liked them.
"I wasn't around when he first slipped into the organization," Mr. Allen said, "and suddenly he was there."
As for why he invested $500,000, "I don't know," Mr. Allen said. "The only explanation I have is that I had just sold a house in Vermont, and I tend not to leave money sitting around. I look at ways to get into trouble, and he was there, standing in front of me."
For staff, Mr. Lahey initially hired people whom he liked. "He hired old friends, or someone he met on a dog run and had a nice dog," said Monica von Thun-Calderon, a partner and the manager of the business, as well as Mr. Lahey's girlfriend during the bakery's first two years.
Mr. Allen put it another way. "He was hiring failed English literature students, these guys who are floating around in the world and will never know what they're doing."
The employees drifted in, drifted out, and didn't follow through. Finally, Mr. Lahey started hiring people like Mr. Lema, or as Mr. Allen said, "people who need jobs."
Mr. Lahey no longer works the wee hours. He works 9 to 5, although he'll show up at midnight, if necessary, or at 4 in the morning.
By 7 on a recent morning, customers wandered in every few minutes -- a woman with a curly-haired dog, a man with a spaniel and a father with his 8-year-old son who asked, "Would you buy me a baguette?" Sandy Nieves, a graphic designer and an acquaintance of Mr. Lahey's, got a free sample of a new pear tart, still warm from the oven.
As for Mr. Lahey, his main job now is not to bake bread -- that's the job of the bakers he has hired -- but to find the next location and create new dishes. He hopes to improve on the summer pizzas topped with zucchini or eggplant, for instance, and to start a cheese farm to produce a "Gruyeresque, fontina-esque cheese, a low moisture, good, not too stinky, affordable table cheese, that could sell for $5 or $6 a pound and not $28 a pound."
Overall, Mr. Allen said, "He's made it into a very dynamic business."
For Mr. Allen's restaurants, of which there are eight, profit margin ranges from 10 to 15 percent, Mr. Allen said. "For bakeries -- there's no glasses, no knives and forks, you're dealing with flour and water -- it's 30 percent."
As for whether he has made his investment back, Mr. Allen said, laughing, "It's none of your business."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I had a Sartrean realization," says Jim Lahey, "a feeling of nausea that I could have a different job every week for the rest of my life." (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Bakeries: Made by Hand"
At artisanal bakeries, distinctive breads are made partly by hand. Here are a few such bakeries and some of their specialties.
 
Amy's Bread 672 Ninth Avenue, near 47th Street, (212) 977-2670; 75 Ninth Avenue, at 16th Street, (212) 462-4338. Specialty: Seeded twist, chewy and densely populated with sesame and poppy seeds (75 cents).
 
Balthazar Bakery and Restaurant 80 Spring Street, at Crosby Street, (212) 965-1785. Specialty: Pain de Seigle, a toffee-colored rye bread with a sour flavor and light texture ($3.50 for a 114 -pound loaf).
 
Sullivan Street Bakery 73 Sullivan Street, near Spring Street, (212) 334-9435. Specialty: Pane Pugliese, a one-foot long dark brown oval of sourdough with a very thick crust and a light, chewy inside ($2.50).
 
Tom Cat Bakery 43-05 10th Street, at 43d Avenue, Long Island City, Queens.(718) 786-4224. The bakery is not open to the public but sells its sourdough boule, a round loaf, crusty on the outside and chewy within, to Citarella ($2.29) and Dean & DeLuca ($3.25).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SULLIVAN STREET BAKERY (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: SULLIVAN STREET BAKERY (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BAKERIES AND BAKED PRODUCTS GOURMET FOOD STORES (90%); BAKERIES (90%); BAKED GOODS (89%); RETAILERS (72%); RESTAURANTS (65%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); 

PERSON: LAHEY, JIM; LOUIS, ELAINE MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



464 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Sighting Highfliers In Airline Stocks

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
PLEASE forgive owners of airline stocks for looking more than a little perplexed these days.
A healthy economy and very low fuel prices provided solid fundamental underpinning for the stocks last year. Trouble was, almost all of them tanked. 
 AMR, the parent of American Airlines, saw its stock fall more than 7 percent. Continental Airlines shares were off more than 30 percent, and Northwest Airlines was down 46.6 percent. Delta Air Lines declined 12.6 percent. And so on. The one bright spot was Alaska Air Group, which rose 14 percent.
Shift to 1999. Many of the positive economic factors are still in place. But now there are also a significant number of negatives.
So are airline stocks bargains, or just dogs? Kevin Murphy, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, spent some time last week discussing the pros and cons.
 
Q. In your view, what are the positives for airline stocks?
 
A. Over all, the domestic economy is still strong. Business travel budgets, which softened in the fourth quarter, particularly on Wall Street, are back to normal.
Also, through the first half of 1999 the airlines will have lower fuel costs than they did in the first six months of last year. And the cut in travel agents' commissions will also help their cost structure.
Finally, about three weeks ago the industry raised domestic fares by 2 percent to 4 percent. That is the first time they have done that in 18 months, and you can't do that unless demand is strong.
 
Q. That still leaves the international component, which has been suffering. How important are international flights to United States carriers?
 
A. For the big players -- AMR, United and Delta -- international represents about 35 percent of revenues and about 40 percent of profits.
 
Q. So is it safe to assume that carriers that do more domestic business will do better than those with heavy international traffic?
 
A. Southwest Airlines should have no trouble posting record earnings this year. Business couldn't be better for them.
We expect per share earnings at Alaska Air to increase about 8 percent, to $5.60. At US Airways, we are forecasting a per-share earnings gain of nearly 10 percent over 1998. But Continental, which has international exposure, will see earnings drop a bit.
The others are going to get hit.
We think AMR's earnings per share will fall by nearly 30 percent. That decline is due to weak Asian and trans-Atlantic business, but most especially because of this labor difficulty, which will cost $150 million on a pretax basis.
United suggests it could have flat to up earnings for the year. We respectfully disagree, due to softness in international travel. We think its per-share earnings will be down about 20 percent.
Delta will also see earnings drop, but not so much. They are seeing some weakness in Europe, but that is offset by domestic strength. And with the stock selling at 7.5 times earnings, it is pretty cheap.
 
Q. In the last few months we have had a strike at Northwest Airlines and a job action at American. Is it likely we will see more problems with labor?
 
A. Returns on capital for this industry are still substandard, and the only way to boost return on assets is through consolidation. But this boiling cauldron of labor, management and shareholders is going to go on for a couple of years.
 
Q. You talk about the need for consolidation, but even as that happens companies like Southwest are expanding into the New York area and an entirely new airline is being formed by David Neeleman to fly out of Kennedy International Airport.
 
A. People Express proved that there is a raison d'etre for a low-cost, low-fare carrier. They went out of business because they were poorly managed, not because there was a lack of demand. I think Southwest will get plenty of business in New York and that David Neeleman's new airline, which has George Soros as an investor, will do well. The surprise has been that for whatever reason New York has not seen this sort of service for the last 12 years.
 
Q. Airline stocks have been battered. Are there some that you like?
 
A. We like Southwest Airlines a lot, and have a 12-month target price on it of $35. It is the only airline we look at as comparable to an S.& P. 500 stock.
Our second pick is AMR. Labor problems may limit the upside, but its valuation is exceedingly compelling. At the moment, the airline division itself, excluding its reservation system, is selling at just 5.2 times projected earnings. We have a target price on the stock of $75 a share.
Since it is principally a domestic carrier, Alaska Air will outperform the market. We have a $55 price target. And at 5.3 times our estimate for 1999 earnings, Continental is also a good value.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Murphy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (91%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); ALK (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (56%); LUV (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER; SOUTHWEST AIRLINES; AMR CORP; AMERICAN AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; ALASKA AIRLINES DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); ALASKA AIR GROUP INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (54%); NEW YORK (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER; SOUTHWEST AIRLINES; AMR CORP; AMERICAN AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; ALASKA AIRLINES NEW YORK (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ALASKA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INDUSTRY PROFILES AIRLINES (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (88%); AIR FARES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (72%); TRAVEL AGENTS (67%); BONDS (67%); 

PERSON: MURPHY, KEVIN; GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



465 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Coal's Hot Competition Forges a Breed of Giants

BYLINE: By WILLIAM R. LONG 

DATELINE: DENVER

 BODY:
COAL mining is no longer a huge industry but its role in the economy is still crucial. That is because coal is burned to generate more than half the electricity produced by American power companies.
But it has been difficult to make money in coal, partly because there is simply so much of it and partly because of environmental regulations. So with overproduction and competition helping to hold prices down, many mines are going on the block, while a few giants are seizing the opportunity to gain even bigger market share. 
 "It has been a very brutally competitive business," said Steven F. Leer, chief executive of Arch Coal Inc. and chairman of the National Mining Association. "People have become very efficient in their mining techniques, and now you're seeing those efficiency drives spill over to the consolidation and trying to reduce overhead."
The top 10 companies control 61 percent of the nation's coal output, up from 35 percent in 1988, according to a study by Arch, now the country's No. 2 coal producer behind the Peabody Holding Company. And experts predict that the consolidation trend will continue. Among the latest companies to offer their coal interests for sale are Chevron, the oil industry giant, and Cyprus Amax Minerals, a copper mining company.
The reshuffling has multiple causes, including changes in mining technology and in the practices of electric utilities. Like some other industries, coal is increasingly dominated by well-financed, sharply focused large companies.
Acquisitions by Peabody, which is based in St. Louis, have helped strengthen its lead. It had 13.8 percent of total production in 1998, up from 7.5 percent a decade ago. Peabody itself was bought last year by Lehman Merchant Banking Partners II for $2.3 billion.
Arch, also based in St. Louis, has jumped from No. 16 in 1996 to No. 2, with 9.7 percent of production, by merging with Ashland Coal and acquiring the ARCO coal unit of Atlantic Richfield for $1.7 billion. Kennecott Energy of Gillette, Wyo., a subsidiary of Rio Tinto P.L.C., a mining giant based in London, became No. 3 by buying several large mines in Wyoming.
Now up for sale are the rest of Cyprus Amax Coal and Chevron's Pittsburg & Midway Coal Mining, both based in Englewood, Colo., a suburb of Denver.
The coal tonnage used by utilities has nearly tripled since 1970, but no one worries about running out of supply. The United States still has more than 1,000 recoverable tons of coal for every resident, enough to last more than 250 years at current rates of consumption.
Consolidation in coal mining offers economies of scale beyond the usual savings on shared overhead. Big improvements in productivity, like the use of "longwall" mining machines for underground work and heavy earth-moving equipment for surface mines, have pushed the amount of capital needed to open a competitive mine beyond the means of smaller producers.
Smaller coal companies also have a disadvantage in negotiating freight rates, said Daniel A. Roling, a senior metals and mining analyst with Merrill Lynch in New York. "If you only are a one-mine company shipping on one railroad, you have no leverage, and you're going to pay dearly to move your coal," Mr. Roling said.
The same goes for negotiating coal prices with utilities. "The customers keep consolidating and getting bigger," he added. "If you're going to have any kind of negotiating strength, you have to negotiate from size."
Profit margins are being squeezed as lucrative long-term contracts written in the 1970's and 80's expire and utilities demand progressively lower rates in new contracts.
"There is a mad scramble to reduce the cost of power production," said Gerald E. Vaninetti of Resource Data International, an energy market research and service company in Boulder, Colo. "The last couple of years it has really gotten intense."
HE Federal Clean Air Act, meanwhile, has pushed utilities away from coal with high sulfur content, mined in northern Appalachia, the Middle West and other areas, in favor of low-sulfur Western coal, especially from the vast Powder River Basin of Wyoming and Montana. Compared with coal mined underground in the East, Powder River coal produces less heat per ton, but it is much cheaper to extract with surface mining and is cheaper for Midwestern utilities to burn even after shipping costs are included.
As a result, production is steadily shifting west. The National Mining Association calculates that coal mines west of the Mississippi will produce 546 million tons in 1999, approaching the 575 million tons from the East. Coal production in the East has been flat since 1980, while Western production has more than doubled.
"The West is going to capture all additional growth," said J. Chris Leshock, an energy forecaster at Resource Data International.
That trend is reinforced by Phase 2 of the Clean Air Act, which will cut sharply the allowable sulfur dioxide emissions from most generating plants, starting next January.
Some utilities have installed "scrubbers," which reduce pollution, in coal-burning plants, to meet the new requirements while still burning high-sulfur coal. Some have bought emission credits that allow their plants to exceed the standards. But most have found it more economical to switch to low-sulfur coal, or use a blend of the two.
Mr. Leshock said that demand for coal to generate electric power would continue to grow, because coal remains cheaper than natural gas, but that nearly all the growth would be at existing coal-fired plants, which tend to have ample excess capacity.
Most coal analysts say there is only a remote chance the United States will impose tough curbs on carbon dioxide emissions, as outlined in the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, aimed at curtailing greenhouse gases. The National Mining Association has deplored the Clinton Administration's signing of the pact and opposes Senate ratification. Mr. Leshock said the Kyoto restrictions "could wipe out something on the order of one-third of the U.S. coal industry" and "make it uneconomical overnight."
Kyoto aside, coal is a "dog-eat-dog industry" but one where the big dogs can be healthy, said Joel Price, an energy consultant in the Denver suburb of Lakewood. "Those that can hang on long enough," Mr. Price said, "will divide up the spoils -- not get rich, but do fine."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abundant supplies and the need to pay for expensive production technology have made coal mining a business that only big operators can generally afford. At Arch Coal's Black Thunder mine in the Powder River Basin near Wright, Wyo., earth movers chew the landscape. (Stephen Berend for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Crucial Industry
Coal, the most important energy source for electric utilities, is consolidating rapidly at a time of low prices and oversupply.
 
Electricity generation by energy source
COAL: 56.9%
NUCLEAR: 20.8%
HYDRO: 11.6%
GAS: 7.5%
OIL AND OTHER: 3.2%
 
Top coal producers January - June 1998
Peabody Holding: 13.8%
Arch Coal: 9.7
Kennecott Energy: 9.6
Consol Energy: 7.6
Cyprus Amax Coal: 6.1
AEI Holding: 4.4
A.T. Massey Coal: 3.4
Texas Utilities: 2.5
North American Coal: 2.3
Pacificorp: 2.0
(Sources: Arch Coal; Resource Data International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (84%); RIO (NYSE) (84%); RIO (LSE) (84%); RIO (ASX) (84%); ACI (NYSE) (70%); BP (NYSE) (64%); BP (LSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (84%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (84%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (70%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (70%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (64%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

COMPANY: RIO TINTO GROUP (84%); ARCH COAL INC (70%); PEABODY HOLDING CO INC (68%); BP PLC (64%); CHEVRON MINING INC (63%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WYOMING, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

SUBJECT: COAL; INDUSTRY PROFILES; MINES AND MINING; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES COAL INDUSTRY (94%); COAL MINING (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); MINES & MINING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (79%); SURFACE MINING (79%); MINING OUTPUT (79%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (79%); COPPER MINING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); TRENDS (76%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MARKET SHARE (70%); MERCHANT BANKING (63%); EXECUTIVES (55%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: LONG, WILLIAM R STEVEN F LEER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



466 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Desperately Seeking Yield Alternatives

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
EVEN with yields on United States Treasury bonds rising lately, times can be tough for those investors who want to live on income from investments.
They can expect a miserly 5.38 percent yield from a long-term Treasury. And a typical one-year bank certificate of deposit earns just 4.34 percent. As for stocks, the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 index offer a puny average yield of 1.3 percent. Investors who wander from government bonds and C.D.'s must cope with risk to their principal, but if they are seeking income, they may have little choice. 
 Donald L. Sazdanoff, a money manager for individuals and small-business retirement plans at Sovereign Asset Management in Lexington, Ohio, said he has sworn off Treasuries and is moving into other investments until the yield on the 30-year bond climbs higher. "It's just not out there on the bond market side," he said.
One obvious income-producing alternative, the real estate investment trust, entails a significant measure of additional risk. But with shares down more than 25 percent, on average, in the past year, fans of REIT's say these investments have never been so cheap relative to stocks and bonds; Eric Hemel, a Merrill Lynch analyst, said that current REIT prices "defy logic." And REIT yields are, on average, one and a half times the yield on 10-year Treasury notes, the largest premium in more than 20 years, according to Robert H. Steers, co-manager of the Cohen & Steers Realty Shares fund.
Yet investors should remember that no matter how cheap REIT's are, prices can go lower if the economy sags. "If we do go into a meaningful recession, that's negative for every industry, and obviously real estate is not an exception," Mr. Steers said.
The risk-averse investor should look for REIT's that might better withstand an economic slowdown, particularly well-run trusts that specialize in office and health care properties. Mr. Steers said one of his favorites is Highwoods Properties Inc., based in Raleigh, N.C., which owns office buildings and other properties and yields 9.2 percent. It trades at 7.3 times 1998 funds from operations, essentially income with noncash charges for depreciation and amortization added. That is less than the ratio for many comparable REIT's. Mr. Steers also likes Nationwide Health Properties Inc. of Newport Beach, Calif., which owns nursing homes and assisted-living centers. It trades at 8.8 times 1998 funds from operations and yields 10 percent.
 ANOTHER beaten-down sector is electric utilities. The 15 that make up the Dow Jones utilities average yield 3.7 percent, but that's not the whole story. Many utilities are stable, slow-growth companies with much higher yields, according to Mark Luftig of W. H. Reaves & Company, a money manager based in Jersey City and specializing in utilities.
Utilities are probably a safer bet than REIT's now, as evidenced by their lower yields. Deregulation of the industry is not the concern it once was, Mr. Luftig said, as some legislative efforts have lost steam. And many utilities now have years of heavy capital spending behind them, he said, and can use free cash flow to pay off debt, buy back stock and perhaps increase dividends.
One of Mr. Luftig's higher-yielding choices is the Ameren Corporation, which serves Illinois and Missouri and offers a 6.8 percent yield with an estimated 1999 price-to-earnings multiple of 13. He also likes Wisconsin Energy, which serves Wisconsin and part of Michigan and yields 6.1 percent with an estimated 1999 p/e of 12.6.
Junk and municipal bonds, meanwhile, still offer unusually fat yields relative to the risk-free bonds of the Federal Government.
Top-rated munis, which pay tax-free dividends, now offer 92 percent of the yield of 30-year Treasuries, according to Delphis Hanover, a bond research firm. And the KDP Investment Advisors index of high-yield bonds yields 4.54 percentage points more than 10-year Treasury notes, down from 6.25 points at the height of the hedge-fund and emerging-markets scare last October but still well above the average spread of 3.54 points since 1992.
Many experts recommend that for convenience and diversification, investors buy junk and municipal bonds through mutual funds. But the best deals now may be closed-end funds, whose shares trade like those of ordinary companies and so can be priced above or below their underlying net asset value. Lately, many closed-end bond funds have seen their discounts grow, some to as wide as 10 percent or more. This means that you can buy $1 of securities for 90 cents.
For munis, Thomas J. Herzfeld, a closed-end fund adviser in Miami who manages about $100 million, likes Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Municipal Premium Income, yielding about 5.6 percent. Though analysts panned it last year when it cut its dividend, Mr. Herzfeld said that it offers a good yield and that its discount to net asset value, at 11.2 percent as of last Thursday, is far wider than it usually is.
Junk bonds are riskier. A recession would spell trouble for them, as it would for REIT's. But for investors willing to stomach the extra risk, Mr. Sazdanoff, the Ohio money manager, suggests bond funds with maturities of no more than seven years, like Putnam Master Intermediate Income Trust, which offers an 8.5 percent yield and traded at a one percent discount on Feb. 12. Not strictly a high-yield fund, it has assets spread among junk bonds, foreign bonds and United States Government debt.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Squeezing Out Income"
Investors searching for income may want to look at a variety of asset classes.
 
Real estate investment trusts
Highwoods Properties: 9.17%
Nationwide Health Properties: 10.00%
 
Utility stocks
Ameren: 6.75%
Wisconsin Energy: 6.12%
 
Closed-end funds
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Municipal Premium Income: 5.55%
Putnam Master Intermediate Income Trust: 8.52%
 
30 year Treasury bond: 5.38%
One-year bank certificate of deposit: 4.34%
Standard & Poor's 500 index: 1.28%

(Sources: Bank Rate Monitor; Bloomberg)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VTR (NYSE) (83%); HIW (NYSE) (63%); CNS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (83%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (83%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); VENTAS INC (83%); HIGHWOODS PROPERTIES INC (63%); W H REAVES & CO INC (60%); COHEN & STEERS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; PUBLIC UTILITIES; REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); RECESSION (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (62%); NURSING HOMES (61%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR ROBERT H STEERS (74%); MARK LUFTIG (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



467 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Paying on the Mortgage And Missing the Boom

BYLINE: By RICHARD KORMAN 

DATELINE: ORANGETOWN, N.Y.

 BODY:
THE Dow Jones industrial average is still in the clouds, but I'm not up there with it. I'm in the basement, troweling fresh gray concrete onto the pocked walls of my major investment. My devotion to this house -- I'm on my knees, literally -- could be a form of financial recklessness that I'll regret bitterly at retirement.
Despite booming equity markets, most of my life savings remain embedded in my home, a 1912 Dutch colonial. And while the resale values of houses in the New York metropolitan area have been rising, the gains are nothing like the astonishing returns on Wall Street in the last few years. With so many market investors redoubling their wealth, I feel as if my nest egg has been sewn into a couch cushion. 
 Houses are the slow-moving steamships of assets. Prices of existing homes went up 5 percent in 1996 and 4.8 percent in 1997, says the National Association of Realtors. Adjusting for inflation, the resale values of existing single-family homes have hardly budged since 1980.
When my wife, Elaine, and I bought our house almost five years ago, we put $50,000 down, all we had. It was the only way to buy because our work as journalists did not give us enough income for a mortgage greater than $150,000. But we worry that we've missed a historic opportunity by not joining the ride toward Dow 10,000.
For psychological rather than financial reasons, home ownership remains the centerpiece of our economic life. None of our parents owned a home until late in life. To correct what we saw as a mistake, Elaine and I have owned homes for all of the 16 years we've been married: First, a small loft in SoHo in Manhattan, sold at a $100,000 gain in 1988. Then a row house in Park Slope, Brooklyn, sold in 1993 for what we paid in 1988, with transaction costs and taxes eating up almost half our equity. Now this freestanding three-bedroom house in Rockland County in the Hudson Valley. We're only about 18 miles from midtown Manhattan, the school district is excellent, and the countryside is easy to reach.
Each move was an agonizing leap into forbidding economic territory, justified only by calculating our after-tax costs. Always we violated the precept of limiting housing costs to 25 percent of family income. And always our real costs, including upkeep, came out higher than we had expected.
When we moved here, I predicted to a friend that our home's resale value would rise 6 percent a year. But by 1996, as the bull was galloping onward, our $200,000 house was worth perhaps $205,000. So there we were, two hard-working 40-somethings with modest income and two children, caught with more than $50,000 in frozen equity. I felt like ripping out the bay window and exchanging it for shares of Dell Computer.
Sure, we had $4,000 to $5,000 invested in mutual funds and stocks. But we had a vegetable patch, too, and that didn't make us farmers.
We faced a choice. We could borrow at low cost against the equity in the house and reinvest the money. Or, as we ultimately decided, we could borrow to pour more money into the house and into suburban living: a roof repair, badly needed new windows and then a second car.
 AND the house kept making new demands. Instead of watching for the next Nasdaq juggernaut, I spent my free time wrestling a new stockade fence into place, going flat on my stomach to dig the last few inches for the posts by hand. Again, I was prostrate before The House.
Finally, in 1996, the bull started to pull our home along, and resale prices in our neighborhood started to spurt. Last year, our house was conservatively reappraised at $235,000. Finally, the 6 percent-a-year appreciation I had hoped for was materializing, but so what? We had missed the chance to switch from real estate to the much higher returns of stocks.
Our savings remain locked up in a house that we may never sell, an obsession we may never escape. If our home's resale value doesn't stay ahead of inflation, the final cost could be higher than we ever realized: a joyless, austere retirement.
Investing, of course, isn't foolproof, and you can't live in your stocks. We trade on line and enjoy it, but never in blocks worth more than a thousand dollars, never in deals approaching the scale of our home purchases and financings. The equity in our home may have grown 70 percent on paper, but the transaction costs for getting at that equity remain high, even if we were willing to move. There are no $20 Internet trades in the housing market.
The simple truth is that our house dominates our subconsciousness as well as our net worth. Instead of locking in shares of the next Amazon.com, I'm more likely to be locking in the integrity of our deck with two coats of Thompson's Water Seal. And screens? They're for keeping out mosquitoes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The writer with his wife, Elaine Silver, in the basement of the investment that keeps their money too busy to join the stock run-up. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Housing Gap"
The gain in the median sales prices of existing single-family homes in the New York metropolitan area since 1992 is miniscule compared with the gain in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index since then.
(Sources: National Association of Realtors; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (52%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); BONDS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); FAMILY (76%); CHILDREN (75%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%); 

PERSON: KORMAN, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



468 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Private Sector;
A Wrestler for Market Freedom

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
LET'S get one thing clear: Merton H. Miller was not a partner in Long-Term Capital Management.
That was Robert C. Merton, another Nobel laureate in economics, who helped found the giant hedge fund with Mr. Miller's former student Myron S. Scholes, also a Nobel laureate. 
 A lot of people have confused the two Mertons; even The Financial Times has slipped up. "I was speaking to a Chinese official and he said, 'How could you invest in Long-Term?' " Merton Miller said the other day in his office at the University of Chicago, where he is professor emeritus at the graduate school of business. "I said I didn't invest in Long-Term Capital. I make my money writing about the market, not participating in it."
Writing about it or talking about it, Mr. Miller has made his mark as both a scholar and a curmudgeon. He almost seems to specialize in defending economic gadflies and espousing unorthodox views. This week, Mr. Miller, 75, plans to tell Congress that there are no new lessons to be learned from Long-Term Capital's near-collapse last August. After all, everybody knows that there are risks in the marketplace and that bigger bets lead to bigger risks. In his view, Long-Term Capital demonstrated nothing more than that there are winners and losers -- and that the losers can even own a Nobel medal. "Knowledge of economics is no guarantee of financial success," he said. "They are two separate skills."
He made the same point last month in a speech honoring Mr. Scholes, noting that other great economists, including John Maynard Keynes, had to be bailed out of personal financial debacles.
Tighter regulation of derivatives, Mr. Miller says, would probably do more harm than good, particularly if it came from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. "In any rational universe, they would have blown that agency up many years ago," he snapped.
That's vintage Miller. With his mane of white hair, piercing blue eyes, frayed eyebrows and tart tongue, he is a formidable presence in the classroom. Yet he also has his whimsical side. He lists on his resume that he is a season ticket holder for the Chicago Bears. And he has a taste for striped suspenders, European beer and sumo wrestling. In his office, a sumo-wrestling calendar is tacked onto a board that is also crammed with graphs, charts, formulas and Nobel prize-winning thoughts scrawled in sentences that are incomprehensible to the untrained eye.
"Sumo wrestling is wonderful; there's a lot of subtlety to it," he said. "I've read a book on it, too. Just like a professor: Whenever we like something we read a book."
But Mr. Miller, who married one of his students 29 years ago, certainly doesn't cloister himself in an ivory tower. Indeed, he sometimes seems to court controversy. Next month, he will be one of five Nobel winners taking part in a discussion of the global economy; the session will be moderated by Michael R. Milken, the junk-bond king of the 1980's who spent 22 months in prison for securities fraud. Mr. Milken, he said, is a "good man," a "victim of prosecutorial excess" and the Government's penchant for sticking its fingers into an efficient market system.
"He wasn't convicted of insider trading; he was convicted of parking stock," Mr. Miller grumbled. "Someone asked me if parking was serious. Well, it's a little more serious than double parking."
Mr. Miller knows a little something about the law, being the son of a Boston lawyer. His mother was a "career woman," he said, and he was her career, an only son who admired Clarence Darrow but who studied economics at Harvard.
Economics really didn't come to life for him until the summer he spent at the National Bureau of Economic Research in New York in 1943. "I had the great fortune of sitting in my office one day and this big hulking fellow said, 'Anyone interested in having lunch?' " The big hulking fellow was George Stigler, later a professor of economics at the University of Chicago and the business school's first Nobel laureate. The two became fast friends.
Mr. Miller's second mentor was Fritz Machlup, a prominent economist, who lured him to Johns Hopkins, where he received his Ph.D. Later, at Carnegie Tech (now Carnegie-Mellon), he worked with Franco Modigliani, who would win a Nobel in 1985, on a problem in corporate finance. They were co-authors of a study in 1958 (the "M & M Propositions" on valuing corporations), which eventually led to Mr. Miller's Nobel, in 1990.
Mr. Miller later turned his attention to derivatives. And when the stock market crashed in 1987 and some experts blamed derivatives trading in Chicago, he took part in a study that absolved derivatives of blame.
His own disciples can feel the sting of his disapproval if they stray from his free-market convictions. Two former students, whose analysis of the Nasdaq market led to a class-action lawsuit that accused Wall Street firms of price fixing and ultimately to a $1 billion settlement last year, found that out. He disputed their findings with his own study and called their study "bad science," arguing that the Nasdaq market wasn't corrupt, but that it simply operated on different principles than the New York Stock Exchange did.
One of the authors, Professor William L. Christie at Vanderbilt University, said that was just like Mr. Miller. "To some extent, he's out of step," Mr. Christie said. "I'm not saying he's dishonest, but things can be twisted to make the free-market view seem right."
Mr. Miller scoffs at the notion that he twists things, saying it's the science, not the theory, that's compelling. "I've seen the Government firsthand," he said. "And most of what passes for regulation is just protectionism." He added: "Look, we are not anarchists; we stop at red lights. But when I do the calculation, the costs of regulation often far exceed the benefits."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Merton H. Miller, defender of free markets, Nobel award winner and most emphatically not a partner in Long-Term Capital Management, at his desk at the University of Chicago. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (72%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); HEDGE FUNDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); WRESTLING (86%); MARTIAL ARTS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); FUTURES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); BONDS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); 

PERSON: MERTON, ROBERT C; MILLER, MERTON H (PROF); BARBOZA, DAVID MERTON H MILLER (96%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



469 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3037 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Up the Basement;
Rockefeller Center Is Turning Its Underground Concourse Into a Shiny New Shopping Zone. Lost in the Bargain, Preservationists Say, Is an Art Deco Treasure.

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
BUT will they come down to the catacombs?
That's the sardonic term that midtown real-estate competitors use to describe the Rockefeller Center concourse: the half-mile of subterranean corridors beneath the limestone-and-glass monument in midtown Manhattan. Since 1933 the Art Deco labyrinth has been traversed by millions of office workers, out-of-towners and subway shortcutters. But for years many shoppers and merchants have seen the concourse not as a potentially exciting retail universe underlying an architectural icon, but as something else: a basement. 
 Now Tishman Speyer Properties, the manager and part owner of Rockefeller Center, the Art Deco complex built in the 30's, is trying to repopulate the space with upscale shoppertunities, more restaurants, more places pouring latte and more stores scooping Cherry Garcia. Jerry I. Speyer, the chairman of Tishman Speyer, claims that the new concourse will help make Rockefeller Center nothing less than "the center of the universe of Manhattan," while bringing higher rents from fancier tenants.
But in the effort to make the space lighter, brighter and more "shopper friendly," in the words of Peter A. Fair, a Tishman Speyer senior managing director, one of two sleek 400-foot-long corridors of gleaming black glass and marble beneath 30 Rockefeller Center has been reduced to rubble, and the other is scheduled to be demolished this summer.
Mr. Speyer termed it "an unpleasant place." The renovation of the corridors, to be finished in December, was necessary "because the current space was no longer economic," he said, "and we couldn't afford to remain vacant."
The corridors are not landmarked. Yet their destruction, and the planned redesign of the concourse, have prompted outrage from some preservationists, who contend that a precious relic of the city's architectural heritage is being obliterated to make way for a standard-issue Middle-American shopping mall.
"This is pure vandalism," said David Garrard Lowe, president of the Beaux-Arts Alliance. "It's an event that will be remembered the way we remember the loss of Penn Station." To Mr. Lowe, the concourse is "the apotheosis of 1930's Art Deco commercial chic, streamliner design, of a piece with the 20th Century Limited, the liner Normandie, the great Zeppelins," he said. "It's so urban and urbane, using the color the Deco loved -- black -- which stood for sophistication and glamour, offset by the beautiful modern green lettering. But now it's almost as if they brought in a decorator and decided to do it up. Will they be putting chintz there next?"
Eric Allison, president of the Historic Districts Council, said the destruction of the corridors "implies a certain lack of respect for the history of the place." He added: "As much as anything else, I think that it's a failure of imagination."
The corridors' blade signs, brass doors and hanging Art Deco lamps are being bubble-wrapped and warehoused. They will not be used in the new design by Beyer Blinder Belle, the Manhattan architectural firm known for the renovation of Grand Central Terminal. "We want this to be a place you feel good to be in, a warm pedestrian environment," said Richard Metsky, a partner at the firm. "And we'll use the same family of materials."
The new design calls for walls of silvery Indiana limestone like those of the center's exterior and modern recessed lighting in a dropped ceiling that will permit the concourse to be air-conditioned for the first time. Bronze doors and window frames will be reproductions of the originals.
Last year Tishman Speyer collided with preservationists over its plans to offer retailers dramatic showcase windows on Fifth Avenue and to alter the setting of the statue of Prometheus. In September, city preservation officials approved a scaled-back plan for Rockefeller Center's shopfronts.
But while the rest of Rockefeller Center was landmarked in 1985, the concourse was not. Kent Barwick, a former commission chairman who was involved in the landmarking decisions, said members of the landmarks panel felt "that Rockefeller Center should have the right, within reason, to experiment and try to reanimate that area of the building.
"At that time we didn't feel the concourse rose to the same level as the spaces that were above them," Mr. Barwick said. "And we didn't want to make it too hard for them to make a living." As far as city preservationists are concerned, he said, "brightening the concourse is not something they should go to the barricades against until we see the details."
As if these controversies weren't enough, tenants seem to be enduring unprecedented levels of disruption. Plywood construction sheds cover hundreds of feet of storefronts. Already gutted are the interior spaces of the Sea Grill and the American Festival Cafe, the restaurants overlooking the skating rink. The 65,000 worker bees at Rockefeller Center have become accustomed to scurrying past dozens of empty glass storefronts above and below ground.
A gaping expanse of bare brick now stands where the granite backdrop for the gilt statue of Prometheus used to be; the stones have been removed for repair and maintenance. Prometheus himself has been uprooted and propped up on Rockefeller Plaza, fenced in by "Hard Hat Area" signs.
Then there is the daily presence of union picketers protesting -- with bullhorns, bells and noisemakers -- the nonunion labor policies of the Cipriani family, who have taken over Rockefeller Center's crown jewel, the Rainbow Room. What's more, that perennial bulwark, Radio City Music Hall, an indefatigable source of customers for the center's shops and restaurants, closed on Tuesday for eight months of renovation.
And so these days, the concourse does not echo with the bustle of retail commerce. It is so devoid of food services that television-network employees joke that they'll be forced to eat in the NBC Commissary.
"Rockefeller Center looks like Armageddon," said David Liederman, a tenant on West 50th Street who is converting his Television City theme restaurant into Chez Louis, a bistro specializing in wood-fire roasting. "I'm frustrated, and every other retail tenant is frustrated," he said. "We will have a restaurant catering to a bunch of empty stores in Rockefeller Center and a shuttered Radio City. There is no reason for customers to come here right now unless they want to look at a lot of black paint on windows."
When the concourse was full "there was so much traffic, but now I'm in a dead end," said Jerolim Vukich, who runs the eight-chair Jerry Vukich's Men's Salon. "I've lost a third of my customers."
But Mr. Speyer sees a jigsaw puzzle fitting together at long last. "We've turned the corner," he said. "Now it's happening."
The concourse renovation is currently the most provocative component of the strategy Tishman Speyer has pursued since it took over management of Rockefeller Center in 1996 in the wake of the bankruptcy of the center's previous owner, the Mitsubishi Estate Company. The idea was to concentrate initially on office rentals, then to upgrade and consolidate upper- and lower-level retailing by replacing banks, ticket offices and mom-and-pop shops with brand-name, mass-appeal merchants. The goal is to draw affluent tourists, people who work in the center, and, especially, New Yorkers.
Mr. Speyer's team hit a home run with Rockefeller Center's office rentals: the occupancy level for office space is now 98.5 percent compared with 86 percent in 1996, according to brokers and some competitors. And Tishman Speyer has scored some big tenants. In the coming months, the auction house Christie's plans to consolidate its offices and auction rooms in a 300,000-square-foot space on 49th Street. And Cablevision Systems Corporation, which has leased Radio City Music Hall for $13 million a year, plans to spend more than $60 million renovating the 66-year-old theater.
NBC, meanwhile, is expanding into a former Chase Bank branch in 30 Rockefeller Plaza, across 49th Street from the "Today" show studio. Now under construction in a 20,000-square-foot space is "The NBC Experience," which will serve as a staging area for studio tours and offer visitors a 3-D theater as well as an expanded store hawking T-shirts and Peacockiana.
But for 18 months Mr. Speyer's managers have struggled to rent the center's 510,000 square feet of retail space, of which 100,000 feet is below street level. And central to the success of the concourse is the desire of its architect, Beyer Blinder Belle, to create an underground "town center" near the skating rink. John Belle, one of the firm's partners, said he wants to turn the space into "a destination location instead of a traffic-circulation corridor."
To establish the street-level component of the town center, the blacktop and sidewalk in front of 30 Rockefeller Plaza will soon be ripped up and replaced with 55,000 square feet of granite bluestone paving to create "a real plaza," said Mr. Fair, who is charged with filling the retail space. "Up to now, people were afraid to step off the sidewalk for fear they'd be run over, even though the street's usually closed."
For the first time, from the concourse level, the public will be able to watch ice skaters through two new 10-foot-by-40-foot windows on both sides of Prometheus. Rink-level views of the ice were previously the exclusive province of diners at the Sea Grill and American Festival Cafe.
"The rink will be the draw for the town center," Mr. Fair said, "a focal point for the entire underground space." Then there are the plans for multilevel anchor stores, like Banana Republic, intended to bring in high volumes of shoppers.
Five years ago the prime leases on Fifth Avenue and the Channel Gardens went for as much as $300 per square foot, but Mr. Fair has been asking $650 a square foot for the Fifth Avenue space. By way of comparison, prime retail space on Madison and Fifth Avenues has recently fetched $500 per square foot. And the asking prices at Rockefeller Center are the highest ever for the location, according to brokers.
Driving such stratospheric demands is a financial imperative: Goldman, Sachs & Company, the 50-percent owner, promised its partners -- including affiliates of the Agnelli family of Italy and the Nicarchos family of Greece as well as David Rockefeller -- a 20-plus percent return on their investment. The high-maintenance center also has steep operating costs.
But however high its cost may be, Banana Republic has signed on for 47,000 square feet at West 50th and Fifth Avenue, planning to build what it says will be its world's largest store. A Banana Republic spokeswoman would not say how much the company was paying to lease space. Nor would a spokeswoman for Sephora, the French cosmetics retailer that is opening a 21,000-square-foot branch on the corner of West 51st Street and Fifth Avenue. Some brokers, however, have speculated that the going rate per square foot for both stores is more than $600.
These two retailers will provide access to the concourse for the first time with escalators to their lower-level shopfronts. Also moving in is J. Crew, which will establish a 14,000-square-foot store in a prime location on the 50th Street side of 30 Rockefeller Plaza.
Adding to the retail mix will be the upscale wine merchant Morrell & Company, which is spurning its current spot on Madison Avenue and 54th Street for a new space on 49th Street next to Dean & DeLuca and overlooking the skating rink, where it will also establish a wine bar.
In an effort to turn Rockefeller Center into what Mr. Fair calls "a place to dine," a complete revision is in store for the concourse-level centerpiece -- the three signature food operations of Restaurant Associates, the Manhattan consulting group. Its Sea Grill and American Festival Cafe will be reinvented, and its Savories takeout shop will be enlarged and renamed. And Mr. Fair said that as many as five other upscale restaurants were planned.
Lately Mr. Fair has been focusing on stores in the concourse. Much of that retail space, he said, will "support the office population." A Hallmark card store will move to a more central location, and two Starbucks (a third will be upstairs in the lobby of 30 Rockefeller Plaza) have signed leases. Mr. Fair said he was also trying to bring in a Ben & Jerry's ice-cream emporium, a Daily Soup outlet and several Emerald Planet fast-food places selling sandwich wraps and smoothies. Leases have been signed for a Kodak photo-processing store and a new dry cleaner, newsstand and shoeshine stop, he said.
The empty concourse spaces were freed up when dozens of small shops went out of business or left because their leases were not renewed. Many tenants remain, from Brookstone and Teuscher Chocolates to Librairie Francaise and the Metropolitan Museum of Art Shop, which is the museum's highest-grossing satellite store. "We call it the Rock shop, and it's a wonderful locaton for us," said Harold Holzer, vice president for communications at the Met. "We're pleased to be part of a better and more elegant Rockefeller Center."
But not all the tenants are happy campers. "I'm in a new location that is half the size at nearly twice the rent," said Mr. Vukich, the barber.
Retail space in the concourse that went for $25 to $30 a square foot five years ago is now getting as much as $120 to $140 a square foot, according to brokers who are negotiating with Rockefeller Center. And though the concourse was recently 90 percent vacant, Mr. Fair said that 65 percent of the space has been leased. He predicts that the concourse will be fully rented by Christmas.
"I think that absolutely they will fill it up," said Faith Hope Consolo, executive managing director of Garrick-Aug Worldwide Ltd. "There are plenty of retailers out there that will throw money at them, retailers who wouldn't have gone there a few years ago."
Another broker, one of several who would speak only on condition of anonymity because they want to do business with Tishman Speyer, said, "Initially they were too aggressive for the market, but now they're reaching a critical mass of retail."
But some retailers say they are less than pleased that rather than Cartier, Salvatore Ferragamo or Hermes moving into Rockefeller Center, it is J. Crew, Starbucks and Banana Republic, which already has a store two blocks away.
"It's a bunch of boring who-cares tenants," Mr. Liederman said. "Everything that is exciting is already in the city, and they aren't coming here at those rents, especially to a basement."
Some of the protesters are disappointed, too. "Why is it worth defacing Rockefeller Center when all we'll get is another mall?" said Bob Thomas, a former Rainbow Room waiter who has been picketing outside 30 Rockefeller Plaza.
Some tourists also seemed underwhelmed recently when apprised of the retail plans. "Banana Republic and J. Crew?" said Marceline Frehner, who was visiting from Salt Lake City. "These are mall shops, though I suppose they would be a draw."
Her son Jason, an acting student who lives in Manhattan, said, "This is too special a place to fill with clothing stores."
As Mr. Speyer sees it, Hermes and Ferragamo "are great names." But, he said, "they wouldn't get the people we want to serve."
 
Food as a Magnet
BETWEEN now and December, Restaurant Associates, the Manhattan consulting group, will undertake what its chief executive, Nick Valenti, calls "the single largest new restaurant construction in the city."
Sea Grill, which commanded the southern side of the Rockefeller Center skating rink, will be reinvented by Adam Tihany, the designer of Jean Georges and Le Cirque 2000, so that pedestrians can see through its glass walls to the skating rink beyond.
The American Festival Cafe, with its outlook from the north side of the rink, will be redesigned in a bigger 7,200-foot space by David Manfredi, a Boston architect. Its new name is being debated.
Savories, the takeout and catering operation that bridged those two restaurants, will be renamed Cucina & Company and move a bit north to a larger, 4,500-square-foot site with a 95-seat cafe, all designed by Roberto Magris, the architect from Florence, Italy. He designed Cucina & Company and the Beer Bar at Cafe Centro, both in the Metlife building.
And this summer, Restaurant Associates will reconfigure seasonal use of the rink space into a new open-air restaurant, tentatively called the Rink Bar, featuring a 360-degree bar.
"We see this as a showcase for our company," said Mr. Valenti, but he refused to talk about how much that marquee would be worth.
Several real-estate executives with knowledge of the deal said Restaurant Associates would spend $10 million on renovations and pay close to $3 million a year in rent on a new 20-year lease -- a 20 percent increase.
Peter A. Fair, a Tishman Speyer executive, said he was also negotiating with one of the creators of Bice Ristorante, the New York spinoff of a high-fashion trattoria in Milan, to put a restaurant in the 7,000-square-foot corner space on 51st Street and Rockefeller Plaza that housed the Fashion Cafe.
He is also negotiating with Gabriel M. Aiello, the owner of Gabriel's Bar and Restaurant on West 60th Street, about taking the West 50th Street space next to J. Crew. "We think they're turning the big boat around, the S.S. Rockefeller Center, and we hope there won't be any icebergs," Mr. Aiello said. "But at these rents you could really get hurt, which is why we've been negotiating for months."
In the corner space at 50th Street and Rockefeller Plaza, formerly a Marine Midland bank, Mr. Fair is hoping to drop in a bistro; there are no takers yet. He also wants to replace the JCB International Credit Card Company on West 51st Street with another restaurant, and there is talk of a small dining place in Christie's space.
"More restaurants, that's good for me," said David Liederman, who is turning the Television City restaurant on West 50th Street into the Chez Louis bistro. "I believe in the Chinese restaurant theory: that there are 300 restaurants in Chinatown and none of them go out of business." GLENN COLLINS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rockefeller Center's manager and part owner, Tishman Speyer Properties, has set its sights on more upscale shoppertunities, and higher rents. South corridor of concourse, to be demolished like north one. "Pure vandalism," a preservationist said. Tishman Speyer called the space uneconomic. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Tishman Speyer is banking on Rockefeller Center becoming a mass-appeal destination. But will New Yorkers join the tourists? (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); The 1930's marble, black glass and lamps in the concourse will yield to limestone and recessed lighting, as shown in rendering, right. (Beyer Blinder Belle); The designer of Le Cirque 2000 is revamping the Sea Grill. Above, a rendering. (Beyer Blinder Belle)(pg. 10)
 
Chart: "MILESTONES: The City Within a City "
 
1928 John D. Rockefeller leases space from Columbia University to replace neighborhood of speakeasies with magnificent new opera house.
1930 After Wall Street crash of 1929, project is reconceived as a "city within a city."
 
1932 NBC signs lease to establish headquarters at Rockefeller Center; Radio City Music Hall opens in December.
 
1933 Christmas tree-lighting ceremony begins; 30 Rockefeller Plaza and British Empire Building open, with underground concourses.
 
1936 Temporary ice rink opens, two years after Prometheus statue is installed; permanent ice rink opens three years later.
 
1938 Associated Press Building, 50 Rockefeller Plaza, opens. 1959 New Time & Life Building, 1271 Avenue of the Americas, opens.
 
1940 Simon & Schuster Building (originally U.S. Rubber Company Building), 1230 Avenue of the Americas, opens.
 
1984 Sea Grill and American Festival Cafe open overlooking skating rink, replacing English Grill and French Grill, there since 1936.
 
1986 General Electric Company buys NBC and renames 30 Rockefeller Plaza the G.E. Building three years later.
 
1989 Mitsubishi Estate Company buys 80 percent interest in Rockefeller Center from Rockefeller family for $1.4 billion.
 
1995 Rockefeller Center's owners file for bankruptcy.
 
1996 Goldman, Sachs & Company, Tishman Speyer and other investors take over Rockefeller Center for $306 million, assuming $845 million in liabilities.
 
1997 Tishman Speyer stops renewing retail leases to open up space. Cablevision leases Radio City Music Hall. Christie's, the auction house, also leases space.
1998 Cipriani family wins lease for the Rainbow Room after Tishman Speyer raises annual rent to $4 million from $3 million. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RCP (NYSE) (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES LP (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC); DEMOLITION; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); VANDALISM (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); RETAILERS (76%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CHRISTMAS (69%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN JAY ROCKEFELLER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



470 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2494 words

HEADLINE: Playing Catch-Up at the On-Line Mall

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
FROM a public relations standpoint, the decision by Victoria's Secret to put its annual Manhattan fashion show on its new Internet site early this month was an unqualified master stroke. Three days after a high-profile Super Bowl commercial invited the world to tune in, the lingerie retailer offered up its parade of semiclothed seductresses, live on the Web. A record 750,000 users viewed the event the evening it occurred and millions more heard about it through media coverage.
The perspective from cyberspace, however, was a good deal less beguiling. Like many other Internet aficionados, Jakob Nielsen, a site design expert and publisher in Atherton, Calif., considered the event a disappointment, a missed opportunity to exploit an expansive new medium. Never mind that it took forever to get access to the pictures, which seemed grainy enough to have been beamed back from an Apollo space mission. The real shame, Mr. Nielsen said, was the retailer's failure to use its models in a fashion show that was interactive -- "where visitors asked questions and learned about fabrics and prices." 
 "They blew a chance to get millions of people to feel welcome at their site," Mr. Nielsen added.
After years of hanging back, brick-and-mortar retailers, as sellers with real stores are now having to call themselves, are arriving on the Internet in droves. In its year-end 1998 survey of 125 traditional retailers, the accounting and consulting firm Ernst & Young found that 76 percent of the respondents were selling on the Web or would be soon, up from 36 percent in 1997. Yet despite this influx, the list of the 50 most popular Web shopping sites, as rated by Media Metrix, an Internet audience measurement firm, contains few familiar names. Making the cut were Barnes & Noble; Macy's, a unit of Federated Department Stores, and Wal-Mart. Not on the list were Gap; Sears, Roebuck, and Bloomingdale's, another Federated unit.
Even at this early date, some investors question whether traditional retailers will ever catch up in the electronic bazaar. The issue is not just academic. Wall Street is betting that the Internet-only retailers who got there first, and got it right -- the bookseller Amazon.com, for example, or the toy, game and software retailer Etoys Inc. -- are in a position to dominate on-line sales long into the future, taking an increasing share of sales from stores. Forrester Research has predicted that the Web, which accounted for less than 1 percent of retail sales last year, will account for 6 percent in 2003.
Toby Lenk, chief executive of Etoys, crows that in convenience and overall appeal, traditional retailers will forever be behind. "Customers are now looking to buy at Web pure plays because they know we are doing a better job," he said. "Being a land-based brand is becoming a handicap." By December, Etoys, of Santa Monica, Calif., was the fifth-most-visited Internet retail site, according to Media Metrix.
 
Doing It Their Way
Most terrestrial merchants no longer insist, as they once did, that they can do without an Internet presence. But many say they cannot simply ape the electronic merchants, especially when it comes to selling goods, like clothing, that are more high touch than high technology.
The old-line retailers bring some formidable advantages to electronic commerce: recognized names, established images and nationwide networks of distribution and service centers (also known as stores).
Some, like Wal-Mart and Gap, seem best poised to make the most of these advantages in the long term. Others, like Toys "R" Us and the Tower Records unit of MTS Inc., have been slow starters.
But most, like Victoria's Secret, owned by Intimate Brands, are in between. The company defends its Webcast, which may not have wowed the Webocracy but which it says has yielded advantages all the same. While 90 percent of its store customers are women, 60 percent of its Internet buyers in the last holiday season were men. So the site is attracting a new base of shoppers, who wouldn't think of pawing through racks of lacy chemises in public.
Because few traditional retailers report Internet sales separately, outsiders have little by which to gauge performance, besides technical virtuosity and site traffic. Store chains, however, complain that site-visitor counts, or "hits," are not a complete measure of success. How can anyone account for a customer who sees what he wants on a Web site, but then buys it in a store?
Based on the little wisdom accumulated so far, Web consultants and the retailing chains themselves are cobbling together a whole new set of rules and standards for success -- among them are speedy site navigation, generous return policies and companywide coordination. But the guidelines are still in flux, and subject to change at the click of a mouse.
 
Treading With Caution
The conventional wisdom among many Web merchants is that first is best. As Bruce Judson, co-author of "Hyperwars" (Scribner, 1999), said in a recent interview, "There is a huge advantage in first-to-market."
Pointing to companies like Amazon.com, Etoys and CD Now, which Media Metrix lists as among the 10 top E-stores by number of visitors, he chided their competitors -- Barnes & Noble, Toys "R" Us and Tower Records.
Any and all of the come-latelies, of course, may yet gain a strong Web presence. The on-line traffic at Barnesandnoble.com is growing rapidly, but it's only about half that of Amazon.com. Still, if any of them had jumped in early -- the debut of Barnesandnoble followed Amazon's by nearly two years -- "they could have prevented what will be intense competition from now on," Mr. Judson said.
Some traditional retailers say they have good reason to proceed with caution: They have a lot to lose. A poorly conceived Web site could cannibalize their stores' customer base, undermine their brand names and cost them a fortune in site development and support.
One common strategy is to use the Web as a billboard, to advertise and affirm a company image. Among the land-bound powers that have sites where visitors can look, but not order, are Target, a unit of Dayton Hudson; Neiman Marcus, part of Harcourt General, and Abercrombie & Fitch. Abercrombie's nostalgic black-and-white site deftly offers free E-mail accounts, a pinball game and electronic postcards of beach soccer matches -- all fitting the romanticized frat-boy life style that its stores are merchandising.
The retailers in this group have no apologies about missing the first wave. Carolyn Brookter, a Target spokeswoman, said: "As a company, we are cautious about moving into unknown territory. We are still asking, 'Is this where we want to be?' "
NM Direct, Neiman's catalogue arm, plans to have the retailer's Web site allow purchases by this fall. But Sharen Turney, an NM Direct executive working on the Internet effort, sees no rush. "There is no such thing as being too late," she said. "Everyone is learning."
Kate Delhagen, director of on-line retail strategies for Forrester Research, says that going slowly, however, comes at a cost. She said she was sure that those "in the toe-dipping realm have had complaints, as in, 'Why do we have to schlep to your stores?' "
Remember, she said, that every day such retailers aren't selling on line, they are losing that market share to competitors -- and, perhaps more importantly, giving them a head start on working out the kinks of the system.
Over all, Ms. Delhagen said, sooner is better than later, and a retailers' lack of on-line selling will be acceptable only for another 12 to 18 months. "The window of customer acceptance of not selling is closing fast," she said.
 
Synergy, or Civil War?
When it comes to peddling wares, E-tailers have the advantage of a narrow focus. As Mr. Lenk of Etoys said, "We live and die by this stuff."
They have done better as a group in part because they concentrate exclusively on the needs of Web customers, from insuring that their sites are easy to navigate to getting the goods out quickly.
During the Christmas season, Amazon.com dispatched its executives to its warehouse, where they helped pack boxes to make sure that gifts arrived on time. It is hard to imagine an elegant chief executive like Leslie H. Wexner of the Limited Inc. up to his knees in cardboard and sweating out delivery schedules.
David Cowan, a partner with Bessemer Venture Partners, an investment firm in Menlo Park, Calif., that is financing more than a dozen Internet start-ups, says traditional retailers must be willing to cannibalize their own stores. "The Silicon Valley perspective is that retailers who use their Web sites to drive traffic to their stores are not going to be competitive," he said. "They have to be willing to write off existing channels and dive in neck deep."
For chains with hundreds of stores, of course, disregarding current operations isn't a realistic option. Nor is it wise. While E-retailers, lacking name recognition, must spend huge amounts to build their brands and images, standard retailers, like political incumbents, have the advantage of well-known names. They also have stores that can educate visitors about their Web sites.
The real question is whether they are committed to leveraging their good names.
The steps necessary to selling on the Web often throw a company into a civil war, analysts say. Letting customers return their Web purchases to the stores can give standard retailers a huge edge over their electronic competitors. But at many chains, analysts say, store managers resent taking returns of Internet purchases because their sales figures will be depressed. Mall operators would complain because their rents are tied to store sales.
Then there is the problem of state sales tax; merchandise from stores can be subject to it, but on the Internet it is not mandatory. This means that if retailers add the tax to on-line purchases, they may lose the competitive pricing edge; but if they don't, store returns can be difficult negotiations. This has resulted in policies all over the board.
Customers shouldn't bother trying to return the pink Valentine's Day teddy they bought from the Victoria's Secret Web site to the chain's stores, for example; it won't be accepted there. But at a Macy's or a J. C. Penney store, Web-purchase returns are no problem.
Most consultants say old-line retailers must get everyone in the company to back the Web campaign by promoting and supporting it through the stores. First prize in this category goes to Gap. Every Gap ad, store and shopping bag proclaims the Web address. Returns of on-line goods are accepted through every Gap channel. At its flagship stores, Gap has set up stations for ordering from the Web. Teen-aged mall rats are entertained, while the computer-queasy are gently initiated.
Gap has even experimented with using its network of 1,450 United States stores as tiny distribution centers for same-day delivery, an effort with obvious implications for Web purchases. According to analysts, a Manhattan test with bike messengers last summer did not go too smoothly. The company disagreed, but would not say when it would try again. If the effort ever takes off, it could set a standard for other traditional merchants that would clearly be challenging to E-tailers. "It is visionary," said Julianna Nelson, an apparel retail analyst with the International Data Corporation, a research firm in Framingham, Mass.
 
Simple, but Flexible
The bedrock principle of Web-page design is that viewers value speed over visual virtuosity. Proof is seen in the popularity of Yahoo, which is devoid of eye candy. In guiding consumers to the products they want, successful Web retailers like Amazon.com observe the "three-click rule," meaning that a shopper can get to the product he wants within three clicks of the mouse. They also keep downloading time to a minimum, at least until shoppers reach the products they want to see up close and buy. In other words, no luxuriously detailed photos or graphics up front.
Such gulag-style design standards are anathema to retailers who have spent years cultivating upscale images. Some department stores would sooner empty their display windows than have their introductory Web home pages dispense with sensuous shots of cashmere and simpering models. But Mr. Nielsen, the Web designer, called these images "the equivalent of hiring well-dressed clerks who are too snooty to serve."
Fred Crawford, who manages Ernst & Young's retail consulting practice, calls for a compromise between appearances and convenience. "The look and feel and image of a site should be consistent with brand image," he said. But until technology improves, he acknowledged, the Web will remain more friendly to retailers like Wal-Mart and Costco that emphasize low pricing, no frills and wide selections.
Established retailers and upstarts also usually differ in how much they rely on technology to shape their approach. Web-based merchants tend to swear by software that analyzes a customer's buying patterns, predicts likely purchases and offers them up. At the CD Now site, for example, clicking on "Wide Open Spaces" by the Dixie Chicks produces a link to albums like Bonnie Raitt's "Fundamental" that have attracted other Dixie Chicks fans.
Retailers with years of merchandising experience, however, are skeptical of software that acts as if it's smarter than their customers, or them. Assuming too much about a customer based on previous purchases could eliminate an impulse purchase, they say. "We analyze to a certain extent, but we don't want to categorize our customers in a group where they might not belong," said Kim Miller, vice president for Internet strategies at Macys.com.
Good enough, said Mr. Judson, the "Hyperwars" author, but no reason that Macy's can't offer a matching blouse every time a buyer clicks on a pair of slacks. "Remember," he said, "you've got to go with the medium."
Another way to go with the medium is with interactivity -- something the most successful pioneers have used early and often. Etoys, for example, allows visitors to plug in birthdays that they want to be reminded of. And Mothernature.com, a natural-products site, allows shoppers to customize their entire product selection: diabetics, for instance, can ask not to be shown any item with more than 5 milligrams of sugar.
Unlike lavishly decorated stores, Web sites are supple enough to be renovated at little cost. Retailers might get it wrong, but they can always change course. The best will probably learn as they go, erring on the side of boldness and speed.
Roger Black, president of Interactive Bureau, a Web-design firm in New York, says that no amount of sitting around in a conference room, analyzing options, will let any company get a Web site perfect from the start. His advice: "Build it first and quickly, and then rebuild it until you get it right."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The Old Line Lags on Line"
Leading traditional merchants who expanded to the World Wide Web had many fewer visitors in December than leading cybermerchants.
 
Traditional merchants
 
MACYS.COM
Visitors: 1.33 million
 
BARNESANDNOBLE.COM
Visitors: 4.69 million
 
TOYSRUS.COM
Visitors: 1.17 million
 
TOWERRECORDS.COM
Visitors: 282,000
 
Cybermerchants
 
AOL.COM (Includes Web and proprietary shopping areas)
Visitors: 8.04 million
 
AMAZON.COM
Visitors: 9.13 million
 
ETOYS.COM
Visitors: 3.85 million
 
CDNOW.COM
Visitors: 2.69 million
(Source: Media Metrix)(pg. 6)
 
Chart: "Where Web Shoppers Stop"
Among the nation's 25 leading Web shopping sites, Internet upstarts outnumber traditional retailers. Although precise measures of Web business are lacking, counting visitors per month in a sample of 40,000 Web users yields results that can then be extrapolated to the entire nation. The following figures are for December 1998, with repeat visitors tallied only once. Number in millions.
 
Bluemountainarts.com: 12.32
Amazon.com: 9.13
AOL.com: * 8.04
Ebay.com: 5.49
Barnesandnoble.com: 4.69
Etoys.com: 3.85
CNet.com: (software) 3.45
Egghead.com: 2.93
CDNow.com: 2.69
Musicblvd.com: 2.69
Columbiahouse.com: 2.45
Classifieds2000.com: 2.26
Beyond.com: 2.17
Coolsavings.com: 1.89
Valupage.com: 1.82
123Greetings.com: 1.75
Onsale.com: 1.49
BMGmusicservice.com: 1.48
Messagemates.com: 1.42
Spree.com: 1.39
Netmarket.com: 1.38
Mypoints.com: 1.37
Macys.com: 1.33
Cdw.com: 1.32
Freeshop.com: 1.31
 
*Includes Web and proprietary shopping areas.
(Source: Media Metrix)(pg. 6)
 
Drawing: "Can Old Retailers Learn New Tricks?"
Having lost the first round to more agile upstarts, brick-and-mortar store chains are now scurrying to build competitive presences on the Web. Here is how some leading names are faring.
 
GAP
Currently not high traffic, but its long-range strategy of supporting both a Web site and physical stores should position it as a dominant player of the future.
 
MACY'S
After a tepid start, a recent redesign is draw-ing visitors. But beautiful, slow-to-load graphics, a must for a store's image, are not in keeping with the Web's swift pace.
 
TOYS R US
Caught napping by Etoys, this E-store lost the battle of Christmas 1998. Now it is struggling to recapture the on-line market, but still has an inferior search engine.
 
TOWER RECORDS
The No. 2 conventional record retailer missed the boat, and is working hard to improve a site that lags far behind many other music sites.
 
BARNES & NOBLE
Fighting back against Amazon.com, and gaining sharply in sales and visitors. Still, if it had moved faster in the first place, it wouldn't be scrambling now.
 
VICTORIA'S SECRET
It has the name rec-ognition. It has the good looks. It has distribution up and functioning. Just don't try to return a Web-bought G-string to a physical store.
 
TARGET
The discounter may be fast to jump on clothing trends, but it is slow to warm to the Internet. At its E-store, customers can look, but not buy.
 
WAL-MART
Already in the top 50 most visited Web retail sites. With Wal-Mart's formidable track record, it would be no surprise if it turned into a Web powerhouse.
(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (74%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (63%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (74%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (63%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (63%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (62%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (62%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC; ETOYS (CO) MACY'S INC (74%); AMAZON.COM INC (63%); ETOYS INC (62%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (54%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (53%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMAZON.COM INC; ETOYS (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET RETAILERS (91%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (89%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (77%); BOOKSTORES (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE JAKOB NIELSEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



471 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2499 words

HEADLINE: For Medicare, A Rocky Road To Competition

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
REMEMBER Medicare? With all the attention these days focused on President Clinton's proposal to salvage Social Security, it is easy to forget that Medicare -- the program that provides about 39 million elderly and disabled Americans with basic health insurance -- is riddled with far deeper, more imminently threatening financial problems.
Medicare's trust fund will run out of money as early as 2008 (compared with 2032 for Social Security's). And because the elderly are living longer and medical costs are rising faster than most other prices, Medicare costs are going up more quickly than spending by Social Security. 
 This week, the 17 members of the Federal commission created by Congress in 1997 to fix Medicare will meet to decide what, if any, proposals they will submit to Congress by their March 1 deadline.
And what many of the members have in mind is the most radical surgery on the program since it was created over 30 years ago.
A faction of 10 Democratic and Republican appointees wants to scrap the existing Medicare system in favor of creating a market of competing public and private plans. A faction of liberal Democratic appointees is fighting to preserve the existing Government-run fee-for-service plan, which reimburses doctors for nearly any bill they submit.
The commission's rules require 11 votes to forward a proposal to Congress. That puts make-or-break power in the hands of two economics professors appointed by the White House -- Stuart Altman of Brandeis University and Laura D'Andrea Tyson of the University of California at Berkeley.
The question for the commission is whether competition in health care can be instituted without threatening the safety of vulnerable families. As economists, the two swing voters agree that competition is needed to modernize a sclerotic Medicare system. As liberals, they say the price of their votes is the guarantee of a specific set of benefits, including coverage for prescription drugs, which Medicare does not provide now. Drugs could add $20 billion to $40 billion a year to the $215 billion program.
Last week, the chairman of the commission, John Breaux, a Democratic Senator from Louisiana, agreed to add drug coverage. But he gave no indication how complete the coverage would be. If he concedes too much to Mr. Altman and Ms. Tyson, he risks losing support of some Republicans. Senator Phil Gramm of Texas says he would be "reluctant to sign onto a brand-new benefit when we have not dealt with the financial predicament of Medicare."
So what began as a high-minded debate over competition could quickly become an old-fashioned spat over money that may well stretch past the March 1 deadline.
If the commission can come up with an affordable way to add an adequate drug benefit while avoiding a tax increase and creating enough genuine competition to help curb costs, it will present a package to Congress that Democrats and Republicans will have a difficult time opposing. And even if such a plan ran into roadblocks on Capitol Hill, it would still be likely to set a framework for whatever is ultimately done to rescue Medicare from its perils.
 
High Costs and Patchy Coverage
Medicare has two components. Part A covers hospital bills, paid from a trust fund that receives revenues from payroll taxes on workers and employers. Part B covers doctor bills, home health services and other outpatient costs. About 25 percent of these outpatient costs are covered by a monthly premium on retirees, now set at $45.50 but scheduled to double by 2007. The balance of the outpatient bills is paid from general tax revenues. The Government spends about $5,700 a year per person.
The vast majority of participants choose the Government's fee-for-service coverage. It provides patients the widest possible choice of doctors but also compels them, or employers on their behalf, to spend an average of about $1,500 each a year on co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs, including those for drugs.
About 30 percent of the elderly buy Medigap policies, supplemental insurance that pays for some of the bills that Medicare does not. About 15 percent enroll in private managed-care plans. But Government price controls and other regulations have choked off wider availability.
The system is under threat from two directions. The first is financial. Government actuaries estimate that the cost of Medicare, relative to the size of the Federal budget, is likely to double over the next 20 years, from 12 percent to about 24 percent.
The second problem is inadequacy. Medicare omits key features of most employer-provided health insurance plans. It has no cap on out-of-pocket costs, so patients are vulnerable to large costs from catastrophic illness. It excludes coverage of prescription drugs. And as Alain Enthoven, a professor at the Stanford Business School, points out, it "offers few of the innovative techniques that the best private plans have adopted to improve patient care, like elaborate data-scanning systems that flag potentially dangerous combinations of drugs that a patient's physicians have unknowingly prescribed."
For both reasons, Medicare cries out for overhaul.
 
A Plan That Builds on Competition
Mr. Breaux, as chairman of the commission, has provided an outline of a solution -- the only outline the commission is actively considering. It rests on the notion of managed competition, the idea behind the Clinton health care proposal of 1994. The Clinton plan shipwrecked over the complexity of extending coverage to tens of millions of uninsured Americans. But that problem does not apply to Medicare because the elderly are already guaranteed coverage.
The Breaux plan embodies ideas that have been embraced by liberals like Henry Aaron and Robert Reischauer of the Brookings Institution, conservatives including Stuart Butler of the Heritage Foundation, and many in between. The goal, proponents say, is to harness competition to drive down costs, encourage innovation and improve quality.
Under Mr. Breaux's plan, Medicare participants could stick to the Government-run fee-for-service program. But they would also have a choice of private managed-care plans offering all of the benefits in the Government plan, plus, possibly, others.
An oversight board would solicit bids from private plans, asking them how much they would charge to cover participants. The premium for the Government plan, meanwhile, would be set at its average cost per person.
The Government would contribute, say, 88 percent of the premium charged by each plan, up to a limit. Medicare participants would pay the balance, typically 12 percent of the premium.
As an added incentive for people to choose low-cost plans, Mr. Breaux's proposal would pick up more than 88 percent of their cost, perhaps leaving individuals nothing to pay on their own. And he would set higher charges for high-income families and provide low-income subsidies so "everyone could afford an average-priced plan that provides essential benefits."
A family that chose a more expensive plan than the average for all the plans in the market -- perhaps lured by a wide roster of specialists or low deductibles -- would pay all the additional cost ($300 a year over the cost of the Government plan, or 17 percent of the premium, in one example provided by the commission). A family that chose the low-cost plan in the example, which might restrict enrollees to a small network of doctors, would pay $132 less than the cost of the Government plan, or 11 percent of the premium.
To cut costs, Mr. Breaux's plan would gradually raise the age of eligibility to 67 over a period of 25 years, mirroring changes that are scheduled for Social Security. And he would allow the agency that runs the Government's fee-for-service plan to acquire powers like those wielded by private purchasing cooperatives to win big discounts, including the right to do business with selected doctors and hospitals. Bruce Vladeck, a commission member who used to run Medicare for the Clinton Administration, thinks the new tools could make the Government plan itself a formidable competitor in the Medicare marketplace.
The purpose of competition, Mr. Altman said, is "to breathe innovation into the otherwise bureaucratically stiff system that is too often controlled by a politically motivated Congress."
He noted that Medicare once introduced new approaches, like the system for paying hospitals according to diagnosis rather than length of stay. "But in recent years," he said, "Medicare has fallen far behind the private sector in figuring out new ways to treat patients." Competing private plans could be the stimulus, he said, to improving care and driving spending lower.
Mr. Vladeck disagreed, saying that the "notion that competition in health care for the elderly will cut costs and improve quality is a fantasy." He predicted that the Breaux plan would "segment the market," steering the poor into low-cost, poor-quality H.M.O.'s while "the rich will flock to fee-for-service."
And he worries about cherry-picking -- the practice in which plans pick out the healthiest enrollees, leaving the chronically ill for fee-for-service coverage. That could eventually make the fee-for-service plan a high-cost outlier, affordable only to the rich.
Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington, worries that the Breaux plan leaves families vulnerable if Congress allows the value of the Government contribution to shrink over time. Representative John Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, adds that he remains "darkly suspicious" of the assumption that managed-care plans "will provide high-quality care."
But other commission members are quick to defend the Breaux plan. How could it "drive poor people into bad plans," asked Deborah Steelman, a Republican appointee, "if, as the chairman proposes, every plan is required to offer a complete set of benefits and Government hands over enough money so that anyone can afford the average-cost plan?" And, she said, if the Breaux plan does not protect future retirees from Congressional cutbacks, neither does the current system.
To answer the fears of cherry-picking, Mr. Breaux said the Government would "risk-adjust" plans, transferring money from those that enrolled few chronically ill patients to those that treated a disproportionate number of very sick people. But Mr. Vladeck challenges Government's ability to determine the necessary transfers.
 
It Comes Down to Drug Coverage
There are many other technical problems in pushing Medicare toward competitive markets, but none are expected to drive Mr. Altman or Ms. Tyson away from handing Mr. Breaux the 11th vote he needs to approach Congress. That brings the commission back to the one issue that could prove fatal to consensus: prescription drugs. Everyone deems them essential, but their huge costs come atop a program that is already in financial straits.
The problem gets tricky because private insurers already pay a lot for drugs. About 65 percent of the elderly receive drug benefits, almost half of them through their former employers and the others through Medigap plans, Medicaid or other means.
The pharmaceutical companies oppose adding drug coverage to the Government-run plan because they fear it will lead to price controls. The Republican members of the commission, ever mindful of adding expensive benefits and thereby cornering Congress into raising taxes, want to avoid a sweeping drug benefit that wipes out this private money, preferring to focus on those who do not yet have drug coverage. But the number of employers providing drug coverage is falling rapidly, and over time fewer of the elderly will be able to afford to buy Medigap policies that cover drugs.
There are no easily affordable answers. Indeed, heading into next week's meeting, commission members have yet to see cost estimates for different types of drug coverage. Making matters worse are some poisonous feelings among the commissioners.
Several of the Democratic appointees say in private that they suspect the Republicans are only pretending to want a drug benefit. Some Democrats suspect that the Republicans want to line up the commission behind the notion of competition, so as to advance the G.O.P.'s campaign to privatize parts of the social safety net. Several Republican members say in private that they suspect the Democrats will only pretend to back competition in order to win the drug benefit. Once drugs are covered, they fear, the commitment to competition will disappear.
Mr. Clinton tried to overcome the money problem by proposing in his budget to pump $700 billion into Medicare over the next 15 years. That is enough, his budget officials estimate, to plug the program's existing financial shortfall. But, if the commission wants to add new benefits, like drugs, it must find savings in the rest of the program.
Some of that money would come from competition. Based on studies that show medical costs are lower in markets where managed care thrives, the staff has come up with estimates that suggest competition would shave the growth rate of Medicare costs by at least half a percentage point a year. If this is true -- and now all commissioners are convinced -- the savings could add up to hundreds of billions of dollars over time. That, along with other potential savings, should leave room to add some drug benefit. The question remains, how much?
 
Swaying the Swing Votes
Because the academics will provide the pivotal votes, it is worth listening carefully to them.
"No one knows what the right level of Medicare spending is or how much competition will really save," Ms. Tyson said. "The important task for this commission, and Congress, is to create a modern system that builds in powerful incentives for health providers to reduce costs and for plans to find innovative ways to care for patients. Mr. Breaux's plan moves in that direction -- if it builds in adequate protection for low-income families, including an adequate drug benefit."
While Mr. Breaux, the politician, appears content to approve broad principles of agreement and let Congress and regulators fill in the dots, the other academic, Mr. Altman, believes generalities are nearly meaningless. What does it mean to guarantee adequate Medicare insurance if the commission does not spell out what is in the basic benefits package? What does it mean to say that competitive bidding will drive down prices if the commission does not spell out what type of bidding it has in mind? After all, economists point out that the bidding system used by the Federal employees plan, upon which Mr. Breaux modeled his own plan, is clearly deficient. Will Medicare do any better?
So Mr. Breaux has a tough task ahead. He can try to provide enough drug benefits, low-income support and details to lure Mr. Altman or Ms. Tyson. But costly benefits and regulatory overkill could drive away his Republican support.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Panel
The members of the Medicare commission. Seated from left: Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th, Democrat of West Virginia; Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California; Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana; Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, and Anthony L. Watson, chairman of the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York. Standing: Bruce C. Vladeck, former administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration; Senator Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee; Illene Gordon, a caseworker for Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi; Senator Bob Kerrey, Democrat of Nebraska; Stuart H. Altman, professor of health policy at Brandeis University; Laura D'Andrea Tyson, chairwoman of the National Economic Council; Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington; Representative Michael Bilirakis, Republican of Florida; Deborah L. Steelman, a health policy specialist in the Reagan Administration; Samuel H. Howard, chairman of Phoenix Healthcare, and Representative Greg Ganske, Republican of Iowa. Mr. Ganske stepped down and was replaced by Colleen Conway Welch, above left, a Medicare commissioner. Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, is also on the panel. (pg. 12)
 
Graphs: "Medicare at a Glance"
 
Number of enrollees
39 million in 1998
Disabled: 5 million
Elderly: 34 million
 
Type of plan
Managed care: 15%
Fee-for-service: 85%
 
Medigap policies
Approximately 30% have Medigap policies.
 
Health benefits from employers
Approximately 30% receive health benefits from employers.
 
Non-Government outlays
Out-of-pocket costs, like co-payments, and employer contributions for covered services and drugs: Approximately $1,500 a recipient per year
 
Drug coverage
65% of enrollees also have some drug coverage, mostly through private plans, employers or Medicaid.
(Source: National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare)
 
"A Move to More Options"
The bipartisan commission on Medicare is considering restructuring the program to give participants more choices about coverage and cost. Here is a synopsis of how coverage works now and an example of how it might work after restructuring.
 
EXISTING PROGRAM
Under the current program, 85 percent of the nation's elderly participate in the Government-run fee-for-service program. They pay $45.50 a month, or $546 a year, to take part, a charge that is expected to double by 2007. About 30 percent also buy supplemental Medigap coverage, usually for $1,000 a year or more. About 15 percent of the elderly join a privately-run Medicare managed-care plan. Most of them pay the same fee, $45.50 a month, but get additional benefits like drug coverage. A small number pay a supplemental premium to that plan.
 
AN EXAMPLE OF RESTRUCTURED PLAN OPTIONS
 
Expensive private plan: Wider choices of doctor, lower co-payments
Paid by enrollee: $1,008
Paid by Government: $4,992
Total premium: $6,000
 
Moderate private plan
Paid by enrollee: $642
Paid by Government: $4,858
Total premium: $5,500
 
Low-cost private plan: Fewer choices of doctor, higher co-payments
Paid by enrollee: $576
Paid by Government: $4,724
Total premium: $5,300
 
Government fee-for-service plan
Paid by enrollee: $708
Paid by Government: $4,992
Total premium: $5,700
 
(Source: National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare)
 
"Heading For Trouble"
Medicare spending as a share of the Federal budget. The graph shows the upward percentage from the actual spending in 1970 to the projected spending in 2030.
(Source: National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); LAW AND LEGISLATION MEDICARE (93%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%); DISABLED PERSONS (57%); 

PERSON: BREAUX, JOHN B (SEN); TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA; ALTMAN, STUART (PROF); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M JOHN DINGELL (79%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); TRENT LOTT (58%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); JIM MCDERMOTT (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



472 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Markets Are Freer Than Politicians

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
YEVGENY M. PRIMAKOV, the former K.G.B. spy who is trying to tighten his hold as Russia's Prime Minister, has gotten a pretty fast education about the ugly choices the global economy presents to leaders of some of the world's great and once-great powers.
Every few weeks a team of economists from the International Monetary Fund shows up in Moscow to determine if Mr. Primakov has put together what they politely term a "realistic" budget. By that they mean a budget that contains a plan to actually begin collecting taxes, bring the costs of pensions and subsidies under control, manage interest rates and pay back debts owed to the West. Their recent message is simple: If the numbers don't add up, the long-halted aid won't resume. And don't count on welcoming back the burned investors who fled Russia last August. 
 To add to the agony, Mr. Primakov is getting an equally clear -- and entirely contradictory -- message from the oligarchs whose support he needs, from ordinary Russians who want relief from soaring prices, from the itchy military that wants to get paid and from the Communists who point out that these indignities were unheard of before Russia began paying lip service to the idea of a market economy.
RUSSIA'S struggle between the forces of global economic integration and domestic economic disintegration, between going the I.M.F. way or going its own way, is an extreme case, but it is hardly unique. Even as the world economy seems to be stabilizing after 20 months of chaos, the political tensions engendered by those events are only worsening. From Brasilia to Beijing to Tokyo, leaders who once talked, Clinton-like, about the benefits of plunging into a globally integrated economy are now talking about how to get out of the pool.
Henry A. Kissinger put it bluntly three weeks ago at the annual meeting of the gods of a globalized economy in Davos, Switzerland: "It is not politically tolerable to prescribe long periods of austerity. It has not worked in any country, and in Indonesia it has produced a political catastrophe."
The Clinton Administration is not on the same wavelength as Mr. Kissinger. It continues to prescribe austerity and fiscal rectitude, even while talking about the need for "social safety nets" in places like Russia and Brazil. But listen carefully, and you can hear the White House recalibrating. Last week the President's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, was talking about a new challenge: Dealing with the "very real fear of a swing back away from democracy and market economics" overseas because of the pressures of austerity.
A four-part series in The New York Times last week described the economic carnage that created this backlash -- from the enormous increase in the flow of international capital around the world to the unpredictable consequences when that cash rushed out of nations that had become addicted to it but were unable to regulate their financial systems. Add to that a dash of crony capitalism, the effects of falling prices for everything from pigs to gasoline, and the sheer panic that sets in when investors conclude that last month's "emerging market" is this month's basket case, and you have the ingredients for a global mess.
Only now, though, are people beginning to explore the political consequences of that collapse, which are as varied as the countries where economic contagion spread. Brazil's governors responded to the country's crisis by threatening to default on their debts rather than give up populist programs; Japan's lawmakers are pressing the Bank of Japan to vastly increase the amount of yen in circulation, an inflation-creating strategy Japan hasn't tried since 1939. (It didn't work out so well then.) Whatever the solution, all are discovering one immutable fact: For all the talk about the wonders of joining the global market, it greatly reduces a nation's political choices.
When times are good it is easy to satisfy investors, who want low risk and high returns, while keeping the masses happy. That was the story of Asia: As money poured in and jobs were created, the free markets seemed not just a godsend, but an ideology. But the moment they stopped delivering prosperity, interests diverged. The I.M.F., backed by the United States, saw salvation in fiscal discipline, high interest rates to draw back investors and a continuing commitment to open markets. The investors demanded government guarantees that their investments would be protected -- or they would take their cash elsewhere.
The investors won the first round. But now Indonesian rickshaw drivers and Chinese steel makers are demanding that their Governments take care of them first. Suddenly the market forces that were seen as the path to national salvation have become the enemy of national sovereignty; who wants to let some bond traders in New York, much less the I.M.F., dictate how much can be spent on unemployment insurance?
"Few people would die with the words 'free markets' on their lips," notes Daniel Yergin, who has chronicled the rise of the markets in the 80's and 90's and the consequent reduction of state power. And so all of a sudden, from Davos to Shanghai, the talk is about re-imposing control on the markets to protect the citizenry.
But that isn't so easy to do, not in a world grown dependent on foreign capital to build the office buildings and the factories.
This struggle between what investors demand and what politicians think they need to do to satisfy their constituencies is visible every day, in different guises. Jacques Chirac, the President of France, arrived here last week and before stepping inside the White House went to the headquarters of the I.M.F., where he declared that it was time to reimpose control over the exchange rates of the three major currencies: the dollar, the yen and the new euro. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, a free marketeer, made it clear that he views Mr. Chirac's idea as a form of madness. In the name of keeping currencies aligned, he said, a country whose economy was slowing -- say, the United States -- might have to raise interest rates, worsening the slowdown.
ANOTHER form of the struggle between state control and markets is playing out in China, where the Communist Party's legitimacy these days rests almost entirely on its ability to deliver economic growth. When greater economic liberalization served that purpose, the leadership in Beijing talked about market socialism. But now growth is slowing -- the Government insists the economy expanded 7.8 percent last year, but the figure appears to be a figment of statistical imagination -- and there are no new jobs for those laid off from decrepit, uncompetitive state-owned industries. With small riots breaking out, the Government is suddenly more worried about stability than economic reform. A senior Administration official talks of China's new "command economy," in which banks are instructed to keep lending money to failing state-owned enterprises, a formula for disaster. And foreign investment in China, once the hottest play on the globe, is slowing dramatically.
Then there is Russia, whose downward spiral, Mr. Berger says, is a greater threat to American security than a strong Soviet Union was. But the solution Washington is adopting seems a series of Band-Aids: Mr. Clinton's latest budget includes money to pay Russian nuclear scientists in hopes that they won't seek employment with Saddam Hussein, and it provides humanitarian food aid around the edges. But the old strategy -- pretending that Russia is rapidly turning into a market economy, and providing billions in loans through the I.M.F. to get it there -- is an approach Washington now views as bankrupt. So do Russians like Vladimir Ryzhkov, a member of Parliament who told an audience at Davos that Russia is now so weak it "is incapable of implementing serious reforms."
The managers of the global crisis insist there is a third way -- that austerity need not mean abandoning the poor or the unemployed. Stanley Fischer, the No. 2 official at the I.M.F., says the portrayal of his organization as heartless economists devoid of a social conscience is "arrant nonsense." But he also points out that the I.M.F. does not have the resources to rebuild a Russia or an Indonesia; only the private markets have that kind of cash. And if the leaders of the emerging markets want to attract that money again, they are going to have to listen to what the investors want as attentively as they listen to the protesters in the streets.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Last September, after Russia's economy collapsed, this woman and her three children were begging for money in a Moscow subway. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SWITZERLAND (92%); BRAZIL (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (76%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (76%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SWITZERLAND (92%); BRAZIL (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (55%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



473 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Global Markets' Lethal Magic

 BODY:
During the cold war, Americans feared the military ambitions of Russia and China in the great battlegrounds of Asia and Latin America. Today the territory is familiar but the danger is different, as the United States awaits the aftershocks of a global economic crisis. As The Times reported in a series of articles last week, no one forecast the start of the new contagion in Asia two years ago. Nor did many foresee how it would spread quickly to Russia and Latin America. Rich nations and investors were blind to the weaknesses of the worldwide boom, and their initial "solutions" when the collapse started often made things worse. Now there is no clear path out of the morass.
The Times series dispelled any temptation to be complacent about the American economy's supposed imperviousness to distant trends. In an era of interconnectedness, American farmers, steelworkers and ordinary citizens dependent on investments and pension funds were shown to have already been hurt. The horrendous human cost overseas could also be seen in the vanished hopes of rickshaw drivers, entrepreneurs and fledgling investors whose families had been reduced almost overnight to poverty and hunger. For much of the world, the magic of the marketplace extolled by the West in the afterglow of victory in the cold war has been supplanted by the cruelty of markets, wariness toward capitalism and new dangers of instability. 
 Much of the credit for staving off an even worse disaster goes to Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin and his deputy, Lawrence Summers, who along with Alan Greenspan at the Federal Reserve have energetically worked with finance ministers and central bankers in other countries to minimize panic. But as many in the Administration now acknowledge, they and other officials got caught up in the euphoria of the early 1990's and pushed developing countries to open their markets to foreign capital when, in retrospect, they were not ready for it. An important lesson is that the mantra of privatization, investment and deregulation of markets overseas should have been accompanied by greater caution and attention to openness, sound financial infrastructures and efforts to root out corruption.
Because the experts failed to anticipate the crisis, many of their actions proved counterproductive. The International Monetary Fund, focused on maintaining fixed exchange rates, forced countries to accept austerity steps that only precipitated bankruptcies and killed growth. At the World Bank, officials fear that the monetary fund's economic prescriptions can hurt recovery, not hasten it. The second lesson, then, is that there needs to be greater understanding of the broad social and political implications of economic theory, more diplomatic sensitivity and certainly more coordination among the "doctors" trying to revive the patient.
The final lesson will be the hardest to figure out. The United States must participate in developing new structures to monitor the new forces at work in the global economy. Institutions like the I.M.F. and World Bank may have made mistakes, but they need to be strengthened, not abandoned, as the best available way to insure that there is enough warning as the next crisis hits. Some experts suggest a kind of global Federal Reserve system to regulate the global economies, while others insist on the absolute sovereignty of the marketplace. Whatever happens, some form of greater financial coordination is in order, with more attention to the underpinnings of healthy markets, including a modern banking system and bankruptcy laws.
From the early 19th century and the start of the industrial era, the United States suffered a terrible cycle of boom-and-bust. There were times of great euphoria when the United States attracted foreign capital, only to crash, leaving investors empty-handed. The Great Depression and World War II helped set in place the modern system of regulation, disclosure and government safety nets. The world is far from reaching that point, but it is not too soon to think in terms of heading in that direction, and certainly being clear-eyed about the risks as well as the magic of the marketplace. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (73%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PRIVATIZATION; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; SURVEYS AND SERIES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); DEREGULATION (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



474 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY;
New Protection Likely For Child Tax Credit

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Middle-class families seeking a $500 tax credit this year for each child under 17 may soon rest easier that they won't lose part of that benefit by falling under the alternative minimum tax.
A like problem was averted last year when Congress passed a law exempting from the A.M.T. both the child credit and education tax credits. President Clinton and Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the House Ways and Means committee, have agreed that another fix is needed. 
 The A.M.T., passed 30 years ago to make sure that the wealthy did not escape all Federal income taxes, has its own rates and tougher rules. But, left unadjusted for inflation, it has become a growing burden on the middle class, and can now affect people making as little as $27,404 if their tax credits and personal exemptions are high enough. President Clinton's proposed budget includes a two-year extension of the 1998 moratorium.
Mr. Archer wants to scrap the A.M.T., which has failed to eliminate tax avoidance by high-income families. About 2,500 families a year make more than $200,000 but pay no Federal income taxes, up from 155 families when the law was passed. DAVID CAY JOHNSTON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 2488 FINANCIAL FREEDOM ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; TAX CREDITS TAX LAW (92%); FAMILY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (56%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (52%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ARCHER, BILL (REPR); JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY BILL CLINTON (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



475 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
A New Generation Looks at Germany's Past

BYLINE: By TINA ROSENBERG 

 BODY:
Gerhard Schroder, born in 1944, is the first modern German chancellor with no experience of World War II. More important, Mr. Schroder came of age as a leftist in the 1960's. He and many of his closest advisers entered politics to rebel against their parents' customs and expose Nazis still in government. The contrast between his history and that of his predecessor, the conservative Helmut Kohl, is visible even in the four months that Mr. Schroder has been Chancellor. He has brought a different attitude toward dealing with Germany's Nazi past -- and, more crucial, a welcome new approach to the treatment of minorities, an issue where the past still echoes today.
After Hitler's defeat, West Germany underwent a far-reaching process of de-Nazification. But the purges and payment of reparations were imposed by the Allies and did not mark new German attitudes. The Third Reich's crimes were invisible in German schools. The 1950's did see the beginnings of some trials. But it was the trial of Auschwitz guards in 1964 that sparked a German rebellion against the past. 
 Germans went from ignoring the Holocaust to talking about little else. Mr. Schroder's generation wrote a new curriculum for the schools, exposed Nazis still in power and instituted a culture of questioning that had never been present in Germany.
No nation has done more than Germany to deal with its past. No country has announced its guilt more loudly, paid more in reparation (more than $60 billion) or put more of its own citizens on trial for war crimes -- many of them committed against foreigners. This is appropriate, as German guilt is unique.
But Mr. Kohl made mistakes, such as his insistence in 1985 that President Reagan visit Bitburg, where members of the Waffen SS are buried. After that, his Government often gave the impression of reluctantly following rules set by outsiders -- mostly, German officials grumbled privately, by American Jews.
The Kohl Government's plan for building a memorial to murdered Jews in Berlin is one example. The working design for the project, begun 10 years ago, was a forest of 2,800 giant stone pillars -- politically correct, many said, but numbing and bombastic in a city already overwhelmed with Fascist architecture and giant Soviet war memorials. Michael Naumann, Mr. Schroder's Culture Minister and fellow young leftist, worried the memorial would have no educational effect. He has improved the idea by proposing the addition of a Holocaust archive and research library. The additions would have the added benefit of marking the deaths of others killed in the Holocaust, like Gypsies and homosexuals. The decision is now in the hands of the Bundestag. Mr. Schroder's original instinct would have been better still. That was to use the money to fix decaying concentration camps and improve their museums -- the most powerful monuments imaginable.
Mr. Schroder has also moved more forcefully to settle an outstanding debt. Last week the Government brokered an agreement by Germany's 12 largest banks and businesses to pay into a fund expected to be worth at least $2 billion to compensate those used as slave labor by private business during the war. Although Mr. Schroder inappropriately suggested outside pressure for such compensation came from a campaign against his country, the fund is an achievement. Unlike the Swiss Government, which has refused to join any settlement, the German Government initiated its reparation fund.
The vigorous German debate over the past is probably more valuable for memorializing the Holocaust than any field of stones. But the more relevant test of whether Germany is a "normal" nation is how it deals with present questions of race.
Jews are coming back, especially to Berlin, and there are more than 70,000 Jews now in Germany. Other minorities feel less welcome. Especially in the eastern states, where unemployment is 18.9 percent, violence against immigrants is alarming. The most important thing Germany can do to change public attitudes is to pass Mr. Schroder's proposals to change its citizenship laws, which hold that Germanness is in the blood. Even foreigners whose families have been in Germany for generations have little chance to become citizens. Mr. Kohl's Christian Democrats and other conservative parties have run an ugly petition drive against the change.
Germans are once again debating how much guilt people today must bear for the past. Except for a handful of old men, the answer is none. But all Germans have a special responsibility for the future, to maintain democracy and deepen tolerance. This is how Germany must now be judged. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: EDITORIAL OBSERVER (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MINORITIES (US); NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND OTHER MINORITIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); POLITICS (89%); HOLOCAUST (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (87%); GENOCIDE (87%); WAR CRIMES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CURRICULA (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); MURDER (53%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, TINA; SCHROEDER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) GERHARD SCHRODER (92%); RONALD REAGAN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



476 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: GRAND ILLUSIONS;
What's Wrong With This Picture of Nationalism

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

 BODY:
KURDS explode in fury across Europe. President Clinton contemplates sending marines into Kosovo or bombing Serbia. Scorched earth and bereaved families testify to ethnic passions gone haywire in Rwanda, Burundi, Bosnia, Chechnya. With or without violence, nation-states proliferate at a dizzying rate, most of them out of the ashes of collapsed Communist states. In 10 years, membership in the United Nations swells from 156 to 185, with former Soviet republics, East European spinoffs and Lilliputian specks like San Marino, Andorra, Marshal Islands or Micronesia taking their places alongside nuclear powers and ancient monarchies. Even in staid and settled Western states like Britain or Canada, ethnic minorities -- Scottish, Welsh, Francophone -- pursue dreams of a United Nations seat of their very own.
To a world shaking off the accumulated debris of fascism and Communism, there is something startling, ironic and troubling in discovering that nationalism -- a force alternatively glorified over the century as a building block of a just world order or reviled as the wellspring of genocidal hatreds -- is militantly bucking the trend toward globalism and transnationalism and emerging with a vengeance. 
 A common wisdom has emerged that the lifting of authoritarian and cold war strictures has released ancient ethnic ambitions and hatreds, potentially leading to a world far more complex and dangerous than the familiar bipolar East and West.
BUT is it so? Could it be that this supposedly new nationalism is neither so new, so surprising, nor so uniformly dangerous? Many students of world affairs who have taken a closer look at the nationalisms and conflicts, like those of the Kosovars and the Kurds, have found that most of the causes and histories long predate the collapse of Communism. What is new, they argue, is not nationalism and ethnicity as such but the world's perception of these in a complex new universe, and the political uses of them in a world of porous borders and interconnected economies.
The rise of globalism, they find, has paradoxically made statehood more necessary for small nations hoping to compete for resources, investment and aid. And if the news media are drawn to ethnic brush fires, there is the less dramatic fact that many regions where ethnic violence was thought probable, like Ukraine or Kazakhstan, have handled their transitions, so far, in peace. And without a superpower conflict to manipulate for their ends, some national movements like the Palestine Liberation Organization have even concluded that peace is a viable option.
"There has been a large effort to track incidents of ethnic conflict, to grasp whether there has been a sudden surge of ethnic conflict," said Rajan Menon, professor of international relations at Lehigh University. "Well, the answer turns out to be no. In the old bipolar world there was a great deal of ethnic conflict, but the cold war was so superimposed on the American psyche that everything else was pushed to the margins. It's something of an optical illusion: the cold war ends, and 'ethnic' now becomes the vector of conflict."
No one would deny that the bloodshed in Rwanda, Bosnia or Chechnya has been terrible, or that ethnic conflicts have been fed in some way by the collapse of the Communist system. What the experts note, rather, is that the hatreds behind these conflicts -- or the nationalism behind the emergent states -- are hardly new.
Modern Africa has been riddled with such conflicts since the colonial powers saddled the continent with arbitrary borders. The Balkans and Caucasus have been problems for over a century. And in the former Communist world, many of the republics and provinces that have now become United Nations members, from Slovenia to Ukraine to Uzbekistan, are less manifestations of any new nationalism than legacies of Soviet nationality policies designed to divide and rule.
Stalin deliberately divided his empire into Soviet Socialist Republics, and when they ceased to be a union, Soviet or socialist, what remained were the republics. Russia, the purported ruler of the empire, was among the first to break out of it, leaving the rest little choice but to follow.
What has prompted the proliferation of states and liberation movements, the experts find, is less a flowering of nationalism than the very forces that were expected to make nationalism obsolete. In a world increasingly united by air travel, the Internet, multinational business and international organizations, ethnic minorities have come to see no reason why they should not participate directly. If the Olympics Games during the cold war, for example, were an ersatz competition between two ideologies and superpowers, there is little reason any more why every nation, large and Lilliputian, should not field its own athletes and gather its own laurels.
"We spend hours and hours wondering how to understand this phenomenon," said Roman Szporluk, director of Harvard University's Ukrainian Research Center. "My understanding of this modern nationalism is as a rebellion against those political entities that obstructed participation in the life of the world. When I think of the 'secession' of Estonia, or Latvia, or Ukraine, or Georgia, or Russia itself, I feel that those people did not break away from some universalism represented by Moscow but felt that the Soviet system denied them the ability to participate in the affairs of the world.
"So what appears to be regionalism is really a way of recognizing the greater interconnectedness of the larger world."
Susan Woodward, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, finds a strong economic component in the new nationalism, as small nationalities, stripped of ideological patrons, conclude that independence is critical in the struggle for international resources.
"Nationalism is just an excuse, a part of the political dynamic as conflicts develop between the central government and regional governments over who controls what resources and what money is being drained out of the region," she said. "Globalization leads to fragmentation, as the state becomes more important as a way to catch fewer resources, to get access to international loans, trade agreements."
IF globalism and the demise of a bipolar world have been the major factors behind the multiplication of nation-states, the eruption of violence is more difficult to explain.
Experts agree, however, that simply lifting the Communist lid off ancient hatreds does not explain why people who have lived peacefully side by side for generations suddenly go for each other's throats. In fact, researchers note that incidents of ethnic violence have declined since a peak in the immediate aftermath of the collapse of Communism, in 1991, when 35 of 37 conflicts in the world were deemed ethnic in origin.
Where violence has broken out, moreover, it has often come not as a direct and spontaneous revival of ethnic hatreds, but from some specific breakdown in order that quickly developed its own momentum. In some instances, the catalyst was the holding of democratic elections in states that did not have the democratic institutions or national consensus to support them. Conflicts in Burundi, Yugoslavia, Armenia and Azerbaijan all followed elections that brought to power leaders who, in the absence of established levers of authority, seized on xenophobia as a means of consolidating power.
"The institutions of democracy often were simply not there," said Jack L. Snyder, chairman of the political science department at Columbia University. "There were no courts, no police, no press to make democracy run, so what else is there? Often the other thing is ethnicity."
Referring to Yugoslavia's President, who stirred ethnic fears among the Serbs of Kosovo as early as 1988, Professor Snyder added: "Slobodan Milosevic was not a nationalist in the slightest bit until he saw Yugoslavia breaking up and needed a popular issue. So what he seized on was a national issue, provided by Kosovo. It was the same in Burundi. It's what happened in the French Revolution, in Germany before World War I."
Even so, the experts argue that there is no such thing as inevitable conflict. For every outbreak of violence, there are less publicized instances of places where violence was initially deemed inevitable but never broke out. Papers were full of doomsday talk about Ukraine several years ago, or of impending anti-Russian "ethnic cleansing" in Kazakhstan. Both lands have so far managed to keep difficult transitions peaceful.
"I'm trying to fight against the notion that the only way out of conflict is the mono-ethnic state, that ethnic diversity is simply incompatible with a civic state," said Professor Menon. "But once ethnic conflicts begin, I'm afraid you can't solve them. You simply try to manage them. Once fathers are killed, or sisters are raped, you have created an uncontrollable dynamic."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kurds, whose anger erupted across Europe last week, have long fought the Governments of Turkey and Iraq, pursuing the dream of an independent homeland. These men posed in northern Iraq in 1993. (Masao Endoh/SABA)(pg. 01); As Russia fought to hold onto Chechnya, Chechen protesters braced to defend themselves against militia troops in Grozny in 1996. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 04)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RWANDA (92%); BURUNDI (92%); IRAQ (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); WALES (79%); TURKEY (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); ANDORRA (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); SAN MARINO (58%); 

CITY: SAN MARINO, SAN MARINO (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RWANDA (92%); BURUNDI (92%); IRAQ (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); WALES (79%); TURKEY (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); ANDORRA (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); SAN MARINO (58%); SAN MARINO, SAN MARINO (57%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT BOMBINGS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); ETHNIC GROUPS (79%); ETHNICITY (78%); POLITICS (78%); FIRES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); TRENDS (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



477 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Manna in the Form of Jobs Comes to the Reservation

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: BAD RIVER INDIAN RESERVATION, Wis.

 BODY:
HEARTBREAKINGLY beautiful, the Chippewa territory here runs wild along the sandy shore of Lake Superior, where soaring forests of quaking aspen and sugar maple had long obscured the bleakness of poverty.
For a century, Chippewas here grew up with a choice: move far from home to find work, or stay and settle for Government welfare. 
 Young people in Bad River typically left for Chicago or Milwaukee or Minneapolis, settling in edgy neighborhoods and learning to navigate in places where the Ojibwe language was a foreign tongue.
But now many tribal members are coming home, not just for funerals and weddings but for jobs. Legalized tribal gambling has spawned a windfall of new employment in casinos, hotels and restaurants. And the profits from the casinos are often invested in schools, stores and clinics, enlivening tribal economies that once seemed as lifeless as stone.
The Mille Lacs tribe in Minnesota has used gambling profits to build a hospital and a high school, and bought a bank that had once refused to grant it a loan. The Apache at Fort McDowell in Arizona have invested in service stations and convenience stores. The Chippewa band here has used its profits from the Bad River Casino and Lodge for new roads, programs for the elderly and the purchase of tracts within the reservation long ago sold, or lost, to whites, territory that Indians call "alienated land."
"In the 90's, we've gone from everyone being on welfare to the point that we've now got jobs for everyone here," said Bob Poqorney, a marketing director at Bad River, which opened a casino seven years ago. "We've seen a sharp decline in the number of people leaving. And we're seeing a lot of people coming back from the cities."
Precise numbers of homecomings in Indian Country are hard to come by, partly because the trend is so new. But there is no doubt that most reservations with casinos are now flush with jobs, a stark change from the days of selling beaded artwork to the few motorists traveling along the rural highways. More than 125,000 people are now working at Indian casinos, hotels and restaurants nationwide, and another 160,000 are working in jobs indirectly tied to Indian gambling, according to the National Indian Gaming Association. More than 90 percent of those jobs at Bad River are held by Indians.
Most reservations with gambling still have high rates of poverty and unemployment. The image of Indians made rich by casino wealth is wildly overdrawn; the notion is amplified by a few atypical but highly publicized little tribes with big operations near metropolitan regions like the Mashantucket Pequots' Foxwoods Resort Casino in Ledyard, Conn., and the Shakopees' Mystic Lake Casino outside Minneapolis and St. Paul. Unlike the Shakopee tribe, whose 300 members each received $400,000 in 1994, Indians on most reservations with gambling get little or no money in per capita payments.
But jobs that pay $20,000 or more, once a dream in Indian Country, have become relatively common. These are decent wages in a place like Bad River, where a nice house costs about $50,000.
The new jobs, together with the cultural ties, have beckoned to people like John Moore, a native who left Bad River 30 years ago, and took some hard knocks living in Milwaukee, before returning to the reservation last fall to take a job as a security guard. "This isn't the same place where I grew up," said Mr. Moore, a rugged man in his 50's, who wears some scars from the hard streets of Milwaukee. "The idea of going back to the Rez for jobs -- it would have seemed crazy."
NOW plenty of people at Bad River have come home for jobs, and for their heritage. In the 12 years that Mike Wiggins lived in Milwaukee, making good wages as a cement finisher, he yearned for the life at Bad River.
"My job was in the city, but my heart was at the reservation," said Mr. Wiggins, 49, who returned five years ago to take a job at the casino as a floor worker and rose to become vice-chairman of the tribe, grateful to have the chance to raise two of his children in the family's homeland.
"I grew up with the freedom to wander, to hunt and fish anytime I wanted," he said. "And I wanted my children to know that kind of freedom."
Tim Giago, a Lakota writer who lives in South Dakota, has called the homecoming trend "the biggest story in Indian Country." He said it represented a triumph over the days when the United States Government tried mightily to move Indians away from reservations, especially during the 1950's, in hopes that they would assimilate in urban culture.
"It failed miserably," said Mr. Giago, a former newspaper publisher who recently started a publishing company for books on Indian life. "People went to the cities and missed their homeland, missed their families. Many of these people ended up in the gutter."
Besides the growth of jobs created by gambling, Mr. Giago noted that about 30 colleges are now flourishing on reservations, with faculties that have evolved from almost all white to mostly Indian. The staffs at health centers on the reservation, he said, are now much more likely to be staffed by Indian doctors and nurses.
One troubling trend on reservations, Mr. Giago noted, was the increase in crime, much of it inflicted by whites. But tribal leaders also see a growth in gangs among young Indians.
Mr. Giago attributed some of the criminal activity to the people returning from cities. "They brought some of the problems of urban streets back to the reservation," he said, noting that reservations, usually located in rural regions with few police officers, can be easy pickings for criminals.
But to someone like Mr. Moore, who grew accustomed to the toughness of Milwaukee neighborhoods, life at Bad River seems tame.
"I walk home in the middle of the night," he said with a shrug, "and I don't worry a bit."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Moore left the Bad River Reservation in Wisconsin 30 years ago for Milwaukee. He returned to take a job as a security guard at the Bad River Casino, where the prospect of work has drawn other tribal members back. (Photographs by Steve Woit for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (60%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); LAKE SUPERIOR (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); LAKE SUPERIOR (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; LABOR; CASINOS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); GAMING (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); TRENDS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CASINOS (89%); LAKES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); POVERTY RATES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESTAURANTS (74%); GAS STATIONS (72%); ANCIENT & EXTINCT LANGUAGES (70%); CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); HOTEL STAFF (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (66%); HOSPITALS (53%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



478 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: In Filmmaker's Ideal Russia, a Presidential Role?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 20

 BODY:
Nikita S. Mikhalkov, Russia's most celebrated living film director, has already won an Oscar for his 1995 movie, "Burnt by the Sun." He has fame, fortune and, as many women fans would have it, is the epitome of Russian manhood.
But the talk now in Moscow -- a capital skittish with economic crisis, winter gloom and an obviously ailing head of state -- is that Mr. Mikhalkov might even run for President. 
 His latest $40 million film, "The Barber of Siberia," which enjoys a lavish gala premiere at the Kremlin tonight, appears, in a sense, to be his extravagant political advertisement.
The 53-year-old director says his aim is to conjure up an ideal of Russia that its people can live by: a world of pageantry in which honor endures, love is pure and a noble czar rules with a firm but benevolent hand. But these days, politics is also not far from his mind.
"Plato said that power should be a burden and not an aspiration," he said in an interview. "I will support anyone who says it is a burden for him, and if I support him he ought to win. People do listen to me. But if there is no such candidate, I will have to sit down and think heavily."
The idea of Mr. Mikhalkov's candidacy may seem like an improbable movie plot or publicity stunt. But it reflects the disillusionment Russians have with their political choices: an infirm President Boris N. Yeltsin and a slew of pretenders widely seen as power-hungry opportunists.
Mr. Mikhalkov, in contrast, has cast himself as Russia's political savior. Even if he does not run, he says that he knows what Russia needs: the restoration of the real or idealized virtues of Czarist Russia.
"The picture shows not how Russia was but how it should be," he said, referring to his film.
Mr. Mikhalkov's Moscow office is adorned with a large chart tracing his ancestry back to Russia's pre-revolutionary aristocracy. With his trademark mustache, he certainly looks the part. And his family has long been one of the most eminent artistic families in Russia -- as well as one of the most discussed.
Mr. Mikhalkov's father, Sergei, an author of children's books, wrote the words to the Soviet national anthem and was the leader of the Soviet Writers' Union. His older brother, Andrei Konchalovsky, also a film director, emigrated to the United States and went to work in Hollywood, carefully dropping the Mikhalkov part of his double-barreled surname, and keeping the name of his mother, Natalya, a poet and descendant of one of Czarist Russia's most revered and respected painters.
The younger Mr. Mikhalkov, who first became famous as an actor, chose to work within the Soviet system. He was neither a Communist Party member nor a dissident. As the Soviet Union collapsed, and since, he has often been seen in the company of top politicians and figures of artistic resistance. His anti-Stalinist film, "Burnt by the Sun," which won an Oscar in 1995 for best foreign film.
Before the 1995 parliamentary elections, he made a polished "feel good" television ad in which Russian astronauts talked lovingly about their homeland as they gazed at the earth from space, and appeared in the spot as one of the astronauts. The commercial showed his prowess as a political image-maker, no small concern for future presidential candidates who would like his support.
These days, Mr. Mikhalkov is known as a moderate nationalist. He supported Mr. Yeltsin's re-election but also has advocated the establishment of a constitutional monarchy. He describes his politics as "enlightened conservatism." It comes across as more of a sermon than a program.
"We have stopped respecting ourselves, our history and our culture," he said. "We live on top of fantastic wealth and beg all the time," he continued, alluding to Russia's oil, gas and mineral riches. "What is shown on television that Russians have made with their own hands? We should not have to stretch out our left hand for Snickers."
In keeping with his politics, his long-awaited, three-hour saga is a kind of nationalist "Doctor Zhivago," a "Titanic" for a Russia enveloped in self-doubt. It is an epic love story, skillfully blending his artistic, commercial and political interests.
An adventurous American woman, played by the British actress Julia Ormond, falls in love with a dashing Russian cadet named Andrei Tolstoy, who is played by one of Russia's leading actors, Oleg Menshikov. The Hollywood-style love story has a bitter-sweet Russian ending, in which the protagonists accept their tragic fate with dignity and self-sacrifice.
Along the way, there is a dig at rapacious foreigners. Richard Harris, the American actor, plays the eccentric American inventor whose consuming passion is to turn Russia's glorious Siberian forests into a pile of timber.
The movie, filmed abroad and on site in the Kremlin, near the Novodevichy Monastery in Moscow and in Siberia, is Russia's leap into the world of multimillion-dollar blockblusters, with luxuriant sets and Dolby soundtracks. The Kremlin even agreed to turn off the illuminated red stars on its towers -- the first time that has been done for a film.
Mr. Mikhalkov's instinct for Western marketing is, apparently, as unerring as his father's was for hitting the leaders' and the people's tastes in Soviet times.
His movie comes complete with commercial "tie-ins" like Mr. Mikhalkov's "Junkersky" cologne, which takes its name from the young noblemen who trained as cadets, and comes in a snazzy box depicting Czarist military trappings.
About $10 million of the film's budget was provided by the Russian Government, with much of the rest supplied by Russian businessmen. That has made Mr. Mikhalkov a target for critics, who say his movie is an extravagance at a time when the Government cannot pay pensions or wage arreas. But Mr. Mikhalkov insists the money comes from a special, non-wage-paying Government fund.
Some analysts find it odd that Mr. Mikhalkov's film celebrates the reign of Aleksandr III, the 19th-century Czar whose rule was one of the least eventful in Russia's turbulent history.
But that appears to be precisely the point. Aleksandr III represents the stability that Russians hunger for, as well as the old values of dignity, self-sufficiency and generosity that have been lost, Mr. Mikhalkov explained. A Slavophile, Mr. Mikhalkov says he believes that Peter the Great, who opened up Russia to the West, pushed the country forward but drove a wedge between the elite and the people.
For all its Russian nationalism -- the film is formally dedicated to the Russian officer corps -- it is also aimed at an American audience, where the big money is. Seventy percent of the dialogue in the film is in English -- a gambit, Mr. Mikhalkov's aides say, to enable the movie to qualify for an Oscar nominations outside the category of foreign films.
Whether all this will advance Mr. Mikhalkov's cause in the shifting sands of Russian politics is unclear. But, as every fresh week brings a new twist in the alleged power struggle between Mr. Yeltsin and Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov, and to throw up new contenders for the post-Czarist Presidential throne, some of Russia's movers and shakers are already speculating about the movie director's prospects.
Boris Berezovsky, the tycoon who has been locked in a debilitating confrontation with Mr. Primakov, has talked about supporting Mr. Mikhalkov's bid. Vladimir Gusinsky, the media mogul, said in an interview that Mr. Mikhalkov would make a better president than many of the other potential candidates.
Mr. Mikhalkov says it is too soon to discuss his political plans in detail. But one scene stands out in the mind of the political analysts here: his cameo role as Czar Aleksandr III. Wearing a resplendent uniform, he gallops into the Kremlin on a gleaming white stallion to loud hurrahs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nikita S. Mikhalkov, Russia's celebrated film director, says he would consider running for President. He spoke in his office in Moscow before the premiere of his latest film, "The Barber of Siberia," at the Kremlin. (Peter Blakely/Saba, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BARBER OF SIBERIA, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MOTION PICTURES POLITICS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); WRITERS (84%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); FAMILY (76%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; MIKHALKOV, NIKITA S; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) NIKITA S MIKHALKOV (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



479 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Major Powers Agree to Take Modest Steps On Economy

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: BONN, Feb. 20

 BODY:
Deeply divided about the best way to tame violent swings in world financial markets, finance ministers from the world's biggest industrial nations agreed here today to create a modest forum to consult on the problem more closely.
Adopted by finance officials of the Group of Seven industrial nations, the plan is notable more for what it would not do than what it would. 
 In a flat rebuttal to demands by German and French political leaders for a broad new "architecture" or "highway code" for world markets, the plan would merely establish a new forum for top regulators that would meet twice a year to consult and look for ways to improve the quality of financial information.
"In the end there cannot be a world authority that regulates all of this," said Hans Tietmeyer, president of Germany's central bank and author of the proposal. "The only way is to get existing organizations to work together better and more regularly."
But the so-called financial stability forum amounts to the lowest common denominator of agreement between the United States, Europe and Japan. The real battles here today were about much more ambitious proposals to smooth out swings in exchange rates and to reduce the mercurial movements of international hedge funds, which some leaders say have contributed to the financial meltdowns in Asia, Russia and Latin America.
And on those proposals, there were no signs of agreement as finance minister and central bankers began their talks this morning.
Germany's new Social Democratic finance minister, Oskar Lafontaine, came here today to drum up support for some sort of agreement to coordinate exchange rates between the United States, Europe and Japan. France's finance minister, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, was expected to push for what President Jacques Chirac has called a "highway code" to exert tighter control over international hedge funds and perhaps exchange rates as well.
But both the United States and Europe's own central bankers, who are far more orthodox on financial issues than European political leaders, are adamantly against grander plans for intervening in financial markets. Without American support, experts and government officials agree, the ideas were essentially dead on arrival.
Today's meeting occurred against a backdrop of growing economic gloom in Europe and continuing anxiety about Japan. One of the most sensitive issues under discussion was whether the finance ministers should issue a statement of support for the Japanese yen. If the yen is allowed to remain at its relatively weak current value, about 120 to the dollar, it would boost Japanese exports by making them cheaper in foreign markets.
But that would aggravate one of the biggest problems faced by the United States, its ballooning trade deficit with the rest of the world.
European finance ministers, meanwhile, are increasingly alarmed about slowing growth in their region. The euro, the new single currency adopted by 11 countries on Jan. 1, has fallen steadily from its inception and reached a new low on Friday against the dollar -- $1.10 versus its starting position of $1.17 just six weeks ago.
On Friday, the Bundesbank reported that German's economy actually contracted by four-tenths of 1 percent in the last quarter of 1998, primarily because of a sharp decline in exports to Asia and Latin America.
Shortly before leaving Washington to attend the meeting today, the United States Treasury Secretary, Robert Rubin, began warning that the United States could no longer be the world's only major importer and that European and Japanese leaders needed to do more to jumpstart their own economies.
In some ways, that makes Mr. Rubin an indirect ally of Mr. Lafontaine of Germany, who has also campaigned loudly for the European Central Bank to lower interest rates, pump more money into the economy and stimulate growth.
But Wim Duisenberg, president of the European Central Bank, has fired back by criticizing Germany and France for not doing enough to deregulate their economies and remove "structural" barriers to business. The central bank refused to lower interest rates last week, and experts doubt it will do so for at least another few months.
In the absence of agreement about monetary policy or exchange rates, officials seem poised to agree on Mr. Tietmeyer's proposal for a "financial stability forum," which was drawn up in response to a plunge in world markets last summer after Russia essentially defaulted on its foreign debt.
The forum would examine the extent to which existing rules on disclosure of information and minimum standards were being met, the head of the German central bank said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; FRANCE; FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); EXCHANGE RATES (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); TRENDS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%); EURO (63%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



480 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Jordan's King Meets Chief Of Pentagon On U.S. Aid

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Feb. 20

 BODY:
Less than two weeks after assuming the throne, King Abdullah of Jordan met today with Gen. Henry H. Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to discuss security ties and increases in aid, officials said.
Jordan has received strong signals of support from its key Western and Arab allies to help keep the country stable after the death of King Hussein,its leader for nearly a half-century. 
 King Abdullah, a 37-year-old professional soldier who headed the country's elite Special Forces before his swearing in as monarch, is clearly hoping that the good wishes his country has received will translate into real assistance.
In the meeting today, General Shelton emphasized to King Abdullah and his top military commanders Washington's readiness to help raise the capabilities of Jordan's Army, the state news agency, Petra, quoted officials as saying.
President Clinton asked Congress on Friday to approve up to $200 million in extra aid to build up the military of Jordan, which shares a long border with Iraq, along with extra economic assistance to help Amman repay its debts.
"America has a major national interest in helping promote stability in Jordan during the current transition," Mr. Clinton said in a letter to Congress.
The President's letter added that prompt financial support for Jordan's economy and military was essential to help promote stability and to maintain American leadership in the Middle East.
If approved, the package would give Jordan's armed forces $50 million this year, $50 million in 2000 and $100 million in 2001, to buy American missiles, warplanes and other weapons.
The package would also provide $100 million over the next two years to help King Abdullah steer the kingdom through its economic troubles. That money could help to buttress Jordan's depleted foreign exchange reserves, to repay its foreign debts and to cover other budgetary obligations. It also would help the Government finance water projects.
Jordan's economy has slowed sharply in the last three years against the backdrop of a faltering Middle East peace effort and crippling economic sanctions that have been placed on neighboring Iraq.
Jordan is also burdened by heavy debt. In the next few years, it has obligations to creditors totaling several hundred million dollars. It still owes the United States $300 million to $400 million.
Mr. Clinton said the United States would support a substantial rescheduling of Jordan's debts to creditors on the basis of an International Monetary Fund program.
The aid package was first proposed by Mr. Clinton in the hours before King Hussein's death on Feb. 7, but few details were released at that time. The package is intended to show the depth of American support for Jordan, which in 1994 became the second Arab nation to agreed to a peace treaty with Israel, after Egypt in 1979.
The Pentagon said General Shelton would also visit Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Oman before flying to Thailand on Wednesday. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JORDAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (58%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JORDAN; JORDAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (58%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JORDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JORDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ARMIES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (69%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ABDULLAH (KING OF JORDAN); SHELTON, HENRY H (GEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JAMES D SHELTON (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



481 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: DEADLINE IN THE BALKANS: IN BELGRADE;
In Serb Capital, More Ennui Than Anguish Over a Raid

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, Feb. 20

 BODY:
As NATO's much-advertised deadline passed for a peace accord on Kosovo province, the people of a dismally gray and rainy Belgrade were scarcely looking up to the sky for the bombs. Few believe missiles will ever come.
Instead Belgraders pursued their normal Saturday routine, drinking coffee and shopping, and generally believing that although the West was being deeply unfair to Serbia over Kosovo, their authoritarian leader, Slobodan Milosevic, would pursue his own interests. And those do not include getting bombed. 
 So there was little surprise this evening when the peace talks were extended, but the length of the extension seemed to some to indicate Western division about the effectiveness of bombing.
Snjezana Milkovic, 35, a history teacher in a Belgrade high school, said the West in general and the Americans in particular were unjust to the Serbs, threatening to bomb because of a situation within a sovereign country.
"While they are right to ask for a deal between us and the Albanians in Kosovo," Ms. Milkovic said in a bakery, "their troops have no right to be there. Our leadership has some right to protest this brutal effort to snatch Kosovo from us," she added, reflecting the general belief that Serbs must retain Kosovo, the heart of their national legend, and that the ethnic Albanians who make up some 90 percent of its population have systematically plotted to undermine the Serbs there and get the land.
Ms. Milkovic said Mr. Milosevic usually ended up going along with the West, because it in effect protected him.
"The Americans constantly torment us because of Milosevic's policies," she said, "but they do nothing serious to topple him. On the contrary, they support him by deliberately failing to help those who are against him. They abandoned the independent media; they let him destroy the student movement. One might think that he has concluded some kind of a long-term agreement with them to destroy this nation."
Aleksandr Tabakovic, 25, a shipping clerk, seemed to regard the whole diplomatic display and threat of bombing as cynical.
"The Americans meddle into everyone's affairs with double standards," he said. "There are similar problems to this one elsewhere in the world like in Spain, Northern Ireland and Turkey, and yet no one threatened them with air strikes, just us. I think that it has nothing to do with morals, just with America's interests."
Novak Drakul, a physician, said the United States was a proud country, "and the politicians need to feed Americans some crisis they can be proud of every six months, with some military display."
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright "has to look like the only one who can get both sides together in Rambouillet and then comes running again today to pull out a deal," he said, referring to the French castle where the Kosovo negotiations were taking place.
"Did she have Holbrooke arrested?" he wondered, musing on the absence of Richard C. Holbrooke, who has traditionally performed the last-minute dramatics with Mr. Milosevic in negotiating Balkan peace.
Miki, a 25-year-old part-time waiter in the Ipanema cafe in central Belgrade, said he expected no bombing. "The economy is bad, the people are demoralized, everything is down," he said. "That's what people care about. Bombing would only make Milosevic stronger."
After more than 10 years of Mr. Milosevic's rule, he said, "I don't know of anyone of my generation who wants to stay in this country."
As the noon deadline trickled away, the two channels of state television were showing, respectively, a cooking program and a peasant dance festival.
Government-controlled print media were more aggressive, with the newspaper Glas displaying a steely-eyed Mr. Milosevic leaning on a military helmet with binoculars in his hand. Alongside were headlines of Mr. Milosevic's defiance of the night before: "We will not give up Kosovo, even if we are bombed."
Of course, the West is not asking Mr. Milosevic to give up Kosovo, but to allow NATO troops in to help him keep it within Yugoslavia.
Still, officials said that Mr. Milosevic, through the Serbian President, Milan Milutinovic, who is in Rambouillet, was angling for the presence of more Serbian troops in Kosovo and the smallest possible Western presence. Failing that, Mr. Milosevic might seek at least some delay or separation between a political agreement on Kosovo and a military one.
"Some deal will be reached," said Bratislav Grubacic, a well-connected Serbian journalist. "The main point is to get the Albanians to accept disarmament and to revise parts of the military annex. Some elements are simply too much for the vanity of a sovereign state."
Earlier today, about 75 American diplomats, their families and their pets left Belgrade in a convoy for Budapest, leaving a small contingent to run the American Embassy here. As they drove away, the chief American diplomat here, Richard C. Miles, in a trench coat and a flat blue cap, waved goodbye to each vehicle.
"We have not reached an agreement at Rambouillet," Mr. Miles said, "and there is the threat of military action should the negotiations not be successful. In order to be prudent, to reduce the danger to our people we have taken these measures. The situation in its present stage is rather more dangerous than a few days ago."
The embassy would be closed, he said, in the event of NATO air strikes. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (92%); SPAIN (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; BELGRADE (SERBIA); KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (92%); SPAIN (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); HISTORY (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



482 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Guineans Still See Opportunity in U.S.

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS 

DATELINE: CONAKRY, Guinea, Feb. 20

 BODY:
When the sun sets, a damp breeze blows in from the Atlantic Ocean, turning the day's dust to grit, and crowds of young people congregate along the rutted streets. With them come the police and the soldiers.
In this shabby capital of 1.4 million on Africa's west coast, men in uniform are as ubiquitous as the evening's mosquitoes. The military and some police officers carry guns, especially at the numerous checkpoints set up after midnight in and around the city. They demand identity cards. They grab criminal suspects from the milling throngs, often by the throat, and pat them down. They search bags and pockets. 
 The tools of the security forces -- harassment, beatings, even muggings -- are brutal, but usually not deadly. Human rights monitors and ordinary Guineans say shootings by police officers are rare. That is one reason the story of Amadou Diallo, the unarmed Guinean immigrant shot to death by four New York City police officers in the Bronx on Feb. 4, resonates so deeply here.
"Violence happens, but it's not something we fear all the time," said Mamoudatu Diallo, an uncle of Mr. Diallo who used to travel between New York and Guinea buying and selling electronic equipment.
Still, for all its publicity here and the uneasiness it created among families with relatives in New York, the Diallo killing is not likely to stem the flow of Guinean immigrants to the United States. Fear of the authorities at home is not what drives them to leave. Hardened by the casual brutality and hardships of their daily lives, many take a certain level of crime and violence for granted.
Instead, like Mr. Diallo, Guineans flock to foreign embassies for visas in growing numbers in the hope of rising above the poverty that afflicts their country like a chronic disease.
For decades, under the former Socialist regime, university graduates were guaranteed jobs, and prices were controlled. Now, unemployment and the cost of living are spiraling upward. So in Guinea's teeming markets, crumbling shantytowns and lackluster universities, the image of New York City remains one of vast opportunities available for the price of loneliness, danger and hard work.
"Guineans by nature and temperament are very dynamic, and when they see the freedom and dynamism of the United States and its strict judicial and legal system, they are drawn to go there," said Alpha Absoulaye Diallo, a prominent Conakry lawyer and former Guinean diplomat who is not related to the young immigrant slain in New York.
"Guineans are also very fatalistic -- they believe that what will happen will happen," he added. "For those who know the United States, they know the police are very severe. That is true in all countries where there are bandits, and it's especially so in the United States, where people can freely buy weapons." Weapons purchases are restricted in Guinea.
Guinea declared its independence from French rule in 1958. Once the richest of France's West African colonies, with 30 percent of the world's known reserves of bauxite, it is now one of the world's poorest nations. Only about 20 percent of the 7.5 million people can read and write. The life expectancy at birth is 44 years.
Under Sekou Toure, the president from independence until his death in 1984, all Guinean industry was owned by the state. The regime was brutal and arbitrary, killing or imprisoning thousands of Mr. Toure's opponents. Many people left, by whatever means they could. An estimated two million lived outside the country by early 1980. France, then more welcoming to immigrants from its former colonies than it is now, was a popular destination. So were neighboring West African countries and, to a lesser extent, the United States.
Then, as now, 8 out of 10 Guineans relied on subsistence farming. Private business was outlawed, but some merchants, like Mr. Diallo's father, Saikou Amad Diallo, set up trading companies in next-door Liberia and the Ivory Coast to market goods from Guinea.
When an army general, Lansana Conte, seized power in 1984, he promised a free-market economy. Later elected president, Mr. Conte has reached out to the diaspora to return and help rebuild. His Prime Minister, Justice Minister and the head of the Supreme Court are all former emigres.
But change came too slowly for some Guineans, among them Mr. Diallo's father. He moved back to Guinea from Liberia in 1980 but left with his family again, this time for Thailand, in 1985. "There were no laws yet to protect businessmen," he said, recalling his decision to leave home again. The father still lives abroad, in Vietnam, where he imports West African gems.
For those who stayed, life became harder still. The Government cut its work force in half, offering many bureaucrats money to leave voluntarily, and simply firing many more. People now must pay for their electricity and the rent on their once-subsidized apartments.
"The wake-up was brutal," said Prosper Dore, editor in chief of two of Guinea's independent weekly newspapers, La Lance and Le Lynx. "Suddenly we had to pay for this and we needed that. Unemployment exploded. People who finish university don't have jobs."
While the more open economy drew foreign companies to Guinea, they needed employees with computer and other skills that local universities did not provide. At the same time, civil war broke out in Liberia and Sierra Leone, making cross-border trading hazardous. Even movement within Guinea is more time-consuming and perilous, as the Government has increased the number of army checkpoints on the roads in an effort to prevent foreign fighters from slipping into the country.
Once again, emigration appears to be the ticket to an easier life.
Many Guineans leave home with unrealistic expectations, especially about the educational possibilities open to them, Mr. Dore said. "A lot of Guineans think they only have to show up at a university and enroll," said Mr. Dore, who has used his newspapers to explain how to prepare better for the immigrant life.
Like Mr. Diallo, some find their dreams cut short by violence.
"We know that many Guineans before Amadou were killed in New York," said Mohamed Mouktar Diallo, a cousin of Mr. Diallo who studied economics and computer science in Canada and Washington. "But they are usually doing something dangerous, like driving a cab in Harlem."
Like Mr. Diallo, who sold tube socks and other goods from a sidewalk table in Manhattan to finance his computer classes, many Guineans also find that earning a living and an education abroad is an exhausting enterprise.
"But I've talked to young people there in America who say that if they tighten their belts, they can eventually take care of their families better and even put some money aside," Mr. Dore said. "They say they prefer to live in the subway in New York, even with the dangers, than be back in Conakry, where there are no jobs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A traffic officer in Conakry, Guinea, minds a crossing near Niger Market. The police are a constant presence, but rarely deadly; that is a reason the news of Amadou Diallo's shooting has been so unsettling there. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GUINEA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUINEA; NEW YORK CITY; GUINEA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; BLACKS SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); ARMS TRADE (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MISCONDUCT (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); COST OF LIVING (62%); CHRONIC DISEASES (50%); 

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN; DIALLO, ALPHA ABSOULAYE; DIALLO, AMADOU; BOSS, KENNETH (POLICE OFFICER); CARROLL, SEAN (POLICE OFFICER); MCMELLON, EDWARD (POLICE OFFICER); MURPHY, RICHARD (POLICE OFFICER) SIR GEORGE YOUNG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



483 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: New York's Economy Surges Despite Jolts of '98

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
Six months ago, storm clouds loomed on New York City's economic horizon. The stock market was sliding, securities firms were laying people off and financial firestorms were sweeping through Asia, Russia and Latin America. Citing the city's dependence on Wall Street, doom-meisters predicted that the city's economy would soon stumble. 
 Were they ever wrong. Statistics from city and state government suggest that the last six months of 1998 were among the strongest ever for New York, and 1999 looks likely to be very good.
Employment is up, incomes are up and tax revenue is up. Inflation remains low. In fact, the strength of the economy may have caused the slight rise in the unemployment rate -- more people are searching for jobs.
And new estimates suggest that the expected plunge in Wall Street's bonus payments -- which affect everything from the price of luxury co-ops to the level of income-tax collections -- did not materialize.
Of course, all that could change this year if the stock market drops 10 percent, as it did last summer, and does not recover, as it did last autumn.
"The market slide was a warning to the city and state not to build a whole economic house on a Wall Street foundation," State Comptroller H. Carl McCall said.
If the stock market had not rebounded, job growth would have been cut in half, according to Regional Financial Associates, an economic consulting firm. "Expectations in regard to New York's economy move one for one with the Dow Jones industrial average," said Mark Zandi, the firm's chief economist.
Such warnings irk Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki, who prefer to attribute the strong economy to tax cuts and crime reduction, rather than the surging stock market.
"The doom and gloom types are all in the business of finding something wrong," said Randy L. Levine, the Deputy Mayor for economic development. "We just had the largest growth in jobs in the history of the city."
This is true. Jobs in the private sector increased by 84,400 last year, a record. In December, the city regained all of the private-sector jobs that were lost in the recession of the early 1990's, according to data from Alan G. Hevesi, the City Comptroller.
And though the number of jobs in government has been falling, "we're within an eyelash of the highest employment of all time," said Marc Goloven, an economist for Chase Manhattan Bank. "The thing to stress is the extensive nature of today's economic growth, in industries that weren't even on the city's radar five years ago."
The number of jobs in the motion-picture and amusement industry jumped by 7,800 last year, 1,700 of them in the last three months of last year. Business services, which can include anything from temporary agencies to car services to technology consultants, added 5,100 jobs in the final quarter of last year and 21,000 last year.
And not only were more people working, but they were also making more money. Average wages rose for most employees paid by the hour, including construction workers, store clerks and bank employees, Mr. Hevesi's office said.
Personal income tax collections, which the City Comptroller's office uses as an indicator of personal income, jumped almost 12 percent in the last six months of 1998. Businesses withheld more money from fatter paychecks and rich people paid more in quarterly estimated tax.
Even the fattest of cats on Wall Street made out better than they expected back in August and September, said Joan Zimmerman, an executive recruiter at G. Z. Stephens Inc., which specializes in financial firms. "That's absolutely the case -- last year, the feeling was, 'Good God, we'll be remortgaging the house.' "
Mr. McCall's office estimates that annual bonuses for those who work in the financial industry fell a total of about $1 billion, to about $11.3 billion.
That works out to more than $75,000 for every man and woman who works on Wall Street, though the bonus pie is not divided up evenly; the chairmen of firms like Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter received millions of dollars in bonuses last year, not including stock options. By contrast, the average stockbroker got a cash bonus of about $8,700 in 1997, the most recent year for which statistics are available, according to the Securities Industry Association. Taxes on some of these bonuses were withheld in December, but many will not show up in tax revenue until January's figures are released in the next week or two.
Sales tax receipts in the last six months of last year were 6.5 percent higher than they were during the same months in 1997, so some were spending a lot of money in the city. Real estate taxes also roared ahead. The transaction tax jumped almost 70 percent, to $236.4 million. The mortgage transfer tax, which people pay when they get mortgage financing, almost doubled, to $225.3 million.
Property tax revenue was down in the last six months of the year, probably because there is no longer a discount for those who pay their taxes early, said John Tepper Marlin, chief economist in the City Comptroller's office. Revenue from several taxes on businesses also fell, including a tax on banks, but general corporate tax revenue rose more than 6 percent.
Outside watchdogs say that if Wall Street does hit the skids this year, city government is well positioned to ride out the storm, due to the Giuliani administration's conservative budget estimates.
"The current financial plan is one of the best, with a surplus rollover of $1.5 billion," said Martin Arrick, a director at Standard & Poor's, the bond rating firm. The one stubborn piece of economic data in the city is the high unemployment rate. In December, 8.1 percent of the work force was looking for a job, more than double the 3.9 percent jobless rate in the rest of the state, and much higher than the 4.3 percent national average. A year ago, the city's unemployment rate was 8.5 percent, but it had fallen to under 8 percent in mid-1998, according to the State Department of Labor.
Republican officials say the unemployment rate, which measures the number of people seeking jobs, is artificially inflated because many people are moving off public assistance and looking for work. Indeed, 53.9 percent of adults in the city now have jobs, the highest level since economists began calculating the measure in 1978.
Democratic officials, on the other hand, say that unemployment in the city is understated because so many people are discouraged from looking for work. They note that the percentage of working adults working averaged 64.1 percent in the rest of the United States.
Initial claims for unemployment insurance rose somewhat in the fourth quarter of last year, and the number of help-wanted advertisements dropped compared with the same period last year, according to Mr. Hevesi's office.
But the number of building permits rose. All three statistics are leading indicators of how the economy will perform in the future.
Mr. Marlin, interpreting these mixed signals, said he expected the city economy to continue to grow this year, though at a slower pace than in 1998.
He remains concerned about the problems that emerged last year: the stock market decline and economic turmoil overseas.
But, he said, "the big story is that the U.S. survived this, was not knocked down, and so did New York City."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: As Strong As Ever"
New York City's economy continues to be healthy. Graphs track securities industry bonuses, total payroll jobs, and inflation rate for New York City since 1990. (Sources: Office of the State Comptroller; New York City Office of the Comptroller)(pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REGIONAL FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: REGIONAL FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INCOME; TAXATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TRENDS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); TAX LAW (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); AMUSEMENTS & GAMING (50%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



484 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3198 words

HEADLINE: LIFE AFTER WELFARE: The Grandmothers;
As Welfare Rolls Shrink, Load on Relatives Grows

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE 

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE

 BODY:
Her mother didn't want to hear it.
Carmelina Smith was locked up and crying -- for herself, for her children, and because the police had just discovered the secret behind her seemingly smooth transition from welfare. A cashier in a college bookstore, Ms. Smith had bolstered her modest wage by lifting more than $11,000 from the cash register and tucking it under her mattress. 
 But when her mother arrived for a jailhouse visit, she was crying, too. With her daughter headed toward a four-year sentence, Jessielean Smith knew she would be the one forced to feed, clothe, diaper and bathe the unruly grandchildren left behind. At age 43, with her own children mostly grown, the last thing she wanted was two toddlers.
" 'Don't cry -- I'm the one crying!' " the elder Ms. Smith recalls barking at her daughter. " 'Your little boy's jumping all up over my foot. My hand ain't no good. My blood pressure's high. And I'm obese. I don't want to hear you're depressed. I'm depressed!' "
As Wisconsin drives its welfare rolls to record lows, the number of grandmothers pressed into action is reaching unexpected highs. Unwilling or unable to work for public aid, many of the state's most troubled mothers have lost their benefits, often en route to drug clinics, jail cells, shelters or the streets. And grandmothers like Ms. Smith -- angry, worried, or plain exhausted -- are being left to care for the children abandoned along the way.
The story of the state's beleaguered grandmothers is just one chapter of the complex treatise on social change being written here by welfare's end. And like most aspects of Wisconsin's daring experiment, it is drawing national, even international, attention from a world eager for glimpses of the post-welfare future.
No anti-poverty idea has animated the last decade as much as "ending welfare." And no state has drawn closer than Wisconsin, where a universal work requirement has cut the cash welfare rolls by as much as 91 percent. (The food stamp and Medicaid rolls have also shown sharp, though less extensive, declines.) Unlikely as it once would have seemed, policy makers from across the globe now routinely descend on Milwaukee, the state's former welfare bastion, searching for signposts of the future.
Both President Clinton and his Republican adversaries have celebrated the dwindling rolls -- in Wisconsin and across the country -- as evidence of clear success. Skeptics warn that families are suffering out of sight and that a flagging economy may yet leave them sleeping on grates. Years of ideological war have left all sides invested in a view. From academic conferences to political campaigns, opinions abound, but facts are scare.
Here in Milwaukee, the epicenter of welfare's end, a sustained look offers a portrait of change not easily reduced to slogans. The world remade by this bold experiment counts winners and losers and many whose complicated stories place them somewhere in between.
And those whose lives are being reshaped are not all drawn from the ranks of the poor. Tax preparers are pocketing new profits as the jobless go to work. Slum landlords are bemoaning their losses as eviction rates rise. Day-care centers are sprouting like weeds and dying just as fast. Homeless shelters are running out of beds. Morning traffic has arrived in neighborhoods once eerie with inactivity.
And grandmothers like Jessielean Smith are busier, and more burdened, than ever. As a grandmother summoned to new duty by welfare's demise, Ms. Smith is typically young, typically ill, and typically overwhelmed. She has arthritis in her hand and legs, high blood pressure, and a weight problem that has slowed her gait with 260 pounds.
Counting six foster children, she has had a young child in her care for a quarter century, ever since she turned 18. Yearning for a break, she had just surrendered her last foster child four days before her daughter's arrest.
Now her life's boundaries are circumscribed by 3-year-old Nakia and 2-year-old Na'Quee, who require an even closer watch than most toddlers. They have clogged her toilet, colored her walls, and reduced the wood panels of her dresser drawers to a pile of splinters. She has already sought psychiatric assistance for Nakia, who flies into hourlong rages and rams his head against the wall.
With little help and a fixed income, Ms. Smith has seen her spirits sag, her finances falter, and the dosage of her blood pressure medication double. "It's been a disaster!" she said. "You have no private life. You can't even go to the bathroom. Your whole world revolves around these kids."
 
Safety-Net Debate Is Raised Anew
Grandmothers like Ms. Smith have long served as pillars of poor communities. But the last decade has left them especially besieged, as crack, AIDS, and lengthening jail terms have sidelined more and more poor mothers. Nationally, the Census Bureau reports that the number of children in their grandparents' care has risen more than 50 percent in the last decade alone.
If Wisconsin's experience is an indication, the nation's tougher welfare laws will push the number even higher. Since the program, called Wisconsin Works, or W-2, began in September 1997, the number of children falling into relatives' care has exceeded state projections, created waiting lists for aid, and touched off a new safety-net debate.
Under the state's kinship care program, grandmothers and other relatives can receive $215 a month for every child in their care. Some advocates for the poor have argued that families need easier access to the payments, and more social services, to keep the children from foster care.
But others, including the state's Republican Governor, Tommy G. Thompson, have asked the Legislature to tighten the program's eligibility criteria. They warn that kinship care could evolve into a new welfare entitlement that allows poor parents to avoid work by giving -- or perhaps just pretending to give -- their children to relatives.
While the placement of children with relatives has brought new criticisms of W-2, whether to consider such moves frequent or rare depends in part on one's expectations. In a state survey released last month, 5 percent of former recipients said they had sent their children to live with others because they could no longer care for them. (By contrast, 62 percent had jobs.) The survey acknowledged undersampling the most troubled families, so the real number of displaced children may be somewhat higher.
Like Carmelina Smith, many of the mothers affected had drug problems that interfered with their ability to work, and others had problems with mental health. "I have come to admit my powerlessness over drugs and drink," Ms. Smith wrote to a judge last month, in a plea for early release.
For better or worse, a welfare check often lent such mothers just enough stability to keep their families together. But Ms. Smith said that when the work program began, her income disappeared and her troubled situation bloomed into outright crisis. "I couldn't buy my kids milk and Pampers -- that's why I did what I did," she said in a recent telephone interview from prison.
About 100,000 families received cash welfare payments in 1987 when Governor Thompson took office. Under W-2, the caseload has now fallen to about 9,000, a decline of 91 percent. In addition, the state now offers cash payments to about 8,700 other families through kinship care and disability programs. Counting them, the decline in cash assistance would be 82 percent.
At times, a grandmother's intervention can bring new stability to a child's life. That seems the case with Verleen Pearson, who marches her two grandsons, Brandon, 9, and Giovante, 4, through nightly meals on her lace tablecloth and weekly services at the Holy Temple Missionary Baptist Church. Ms. Pearson has been caring for the children for more than a year since her daughter, Yolanda, lost her benefits, faced an eviction, and left town with a boyfriend.
"The kids are fine," Ms. Pearson said, though she herself admits to more than a little fatigue. At 51, she has a disabling lung disease that requires her to breathe with the help of an oxygen tank. "I enjoy it because they are my grandchildren and I love them, but physically it's been somewhat of a struggle," she said.
But other grandmothers are just marginally more stable than the mothers they have replaced. At 71, Bernice Locke found herself caring for four great-grandchildren -- three of them teen-agers -- after her granddaughter, LaHonda, lost her welfare check and was arrested for selling drugs. A besieged woman surviving on disability payments, Ms. Locke falters just trying to remember the children's names.
"They name these babies so many crazy names, I don't even know -- I get confused," she said, estimating she has 28 or 29 grandchildren and about 17 great-grandchildren.
A recent visit to Ms. Locke's home found two of the teen-agers suspended from school for fighting while Ms. Locke wrote the judge that sentenced her granddaughter. "I know this is a lot to ask, but can her jail time be reduced?" she asked. "One of the children has a bed-wetting problem."
 
Poor Grandmothers Become a Linchpin
Nationwide, there are about 1.4 million children living in "skip-generation" households, where grandparents are raising grandchildren without a parent present. That represents a 52 percent increase since 1990. Almost half live in households headed by a grandmother only, the configuration most commonly found in Milwaukee's poor neighborhoods.
Typically, their resources are meager. Nationwide, 57 percent of these single grandmothers are poor, according to the Census Bureau. About 46 percent lack a high school degree and only a third are employed in a given month. Their average income is $13,400. About 53 percent are black; 28 percent are white; 16 percent are Hispanic; and 3 percent are classified as "other." Forty-one percent are younger than 54.
Under the state's previous system, grandmothers like Ms. Smith could receive welfare as long as the grandchildren they were caring for had sufficiently meager resources. But in creating kinship care, the state made it harder to get cash payments. Families must first undergo a home visit from a child protection worker. And the only children eligible are those deemed at risk of going into foster care.
Still, caseloads have run unexpectedly high. By last September, the most recent month for which figures are available, there were 8,616 children approved for aid. That figure exceeded the range of previous estimates by 12 to 40 percent and led to long waiting lists.
While the state had about $80 million in unspent Federal welfare money, the effort to bolster the program's financing bogged down during months of interagency squabbling. After a barrage of criticisms, Governor Thompson and the Legislature transferred $1.9 million last fall to eliminate the waiting list.
Ms. Smith applied for help last February, a month after her daughter went to jail. But she was forced to wait seven months before receiving a check, and she is now seeking back payments. "Man, that made me mad," she said, speaking of the wait.
Ms. Smith has other monthly income -- $550 in disability payments, $419 in food stamps, and $426 in adoption assistance for a former foster child she has turned into a son. And her husband occasionally helps with the bills, though the two have long been separated. But she said a half-year's spending for food and diapers had still left her in a hole.
While the demand for kinship care is unexpectedly strong, the reasons are in dispute. Critics of W-2 say the unforgiving work rules are breaking apart troubled families once held together by welfare. That view seems bolstered by reports from homeless shelters, which have seen sharp rises in single women who say they have left their children with relatives.
It is also bolstered by other circumstantial evidence. After declining for several years, the number of children on public assistance being raised by relatives began to edge up in March 1998, the month transition to W-2 was completed.
"W-2 makes so many demands and these were already fragile families," said Gwen Moore, a State Senator whose district includes some of Milwaukee's poorest neighborhoods. "We predicted that child welfare cases would go up."
State officials agree that without welfare, some troubled mothers like Carmelina Smith may be forced to place children with relatives. But they say that is often better for the child.
"It's a good thing if the child was coming from a situation where there was a risk of abuse and neglect," said J. Jean Rogers, who oversees the daily administration of the work program.
And Ms. Rogers said the demand for kinship care may be driven by factors other than distress. With welfare gone, the program may be seen as a new source of easy cash. Ms. Rogers said some mothers may leave children with relatives, or merely pretend to do so, to collect the $215 payments.
"We suspect that may be a factor at play," she said. While the home visits are meant to deter such schemes, Ms. Rogers said social workers do not always screen the cases with rigor.
 
Unending Pressures Overtake a Family
In the Smiths' case, the work program clearly brought new pressures. But their troubles began in a previous age and continued over decades when they regularly received welfare checks. Jessielean Smith once grew so incensed at a food-stamp worker in Chicago -- when she complained of hunger, he advised her to fast -- she left the infant Carmelina in his lap and fled the office. "I said, 'O.K., you feed her,' " she said. (She returned a half-hour later.)
The family moved to Milwaukee when Carmelina was 12, and the elder Ms. Smith raised her four children while moving on and off the welfare rolls and in and out of work. In Carmelina's case, the welfare problems started before her first child was born. She pleaded guilty to defrauding the food stamp program in 1995 after officials discovered she secretly had a job.
When W-2 began in 1997, she was was again unemployed. The new program offered $673 a month for herself and her two children. But it also demanded at least 30 hours of weekly work at a community service job.
"I thought I could make more money than that little bit they were giving me," she said. So she rejected the work and lost her check.
But private jobs proved harder than she expected to find and to keep. And Ms. Smith, then 23, had other problems. Her boyfriend impregnated one of her neighbors. He hit Ms. Smith, and she stabbed him with a fork. She sought solace in marijuana and wine. Milk and Pampers grew scarce. Her landlord posted an eviction notice and she moved back home with her mother. She grew depressed as friends treated their children to Nikes and Guess jeans, coveted items beyond her means.
With no help from the children's father, Ms. Smith said, "I wasn't able to put clothes on their back, the way I should have."
In these hard times, the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee offered her a four-week job at $5.50 an hour, running the bookstore's cash register during the back-to-school rush. Soon after, her sister noticed that Ms. Smith's mattress no longer lay flat against the floor. Ms. Smith then lifted it and revealed a pallet of stolen cash. The two women laughed like lottery winners, whooped, and threw hundred-dollar bills in the air.
Ms. Smith recalls the moment as a rare time of inner peace: "It felt good. I felt like now I can take care of my kids the way I want to."
Her mother grew suspicious when Ms. Smith started treating the family to spending sprees at the mall. But the bookstore failed to detect the theft and invited her back the following semester. More cash disappeared, and this time her supervisor noticed. Confronted in January 1998, Ms. Smith quickly confessed to stealing $11,615.10.
Now the elder Ms. Smith has her arthritic hands full.
"Look, I love my grandchildren, but they're just wild," she said.
Nakia, nicknamed Man-Man, used a broomstick to knock the fire detectors off the walls. Na'Quee, who goes by Chu-Chu, once delivered a screaming fit that so jangled Ms. Smith's nerves she tried to muffle her with a pillow.
"I said to myself, 'You better watch it, fool -- you're going to smother that child and go to jail,' " she said. "I can see how they crack and kill kids."
Some supporters of the new system say crises like the Smiths' are inevitable -- a short-term cost of long-term gain. Welfare gave drug users and other troubled women a way to ignore their problems, they say. But they hope a work requirement, in bringing such problems to light, will ultimately prove a steppingstone to family health.
Indeed, for her part, Carmelina Smith still predicts a happy ending.
"My life has changed a lot since I've been in prison," she said. "I'm very much into Christ now."
But Jessielean Smith is less sanguine and more fatigued -- especially the week after inheriting even more grandchildren. Her son's girlfriend just went to jail for selling drugs, sending two more children into Ms. Smith's care. "I'm fixing to go to the insane asylum," she said.
In her view, welfare is supposed to be a shock absorber, not a shock producer. "This is unfair and unjust," for herself and for the children, she said. "If Carmelina had been getting public aid, she wouldn't have stole the money."
Asked about the future, she has only one desire: a long vacation. She plans to visit Disney World, or maybe Toledo, though she has never seen either place.
"When Carmelina gets out of jail, I'm gone," she said "Sayonara!"
 
Life After Welfare
With the nation's welfare rolls down 43 percent, both President Clinton and his Republican critics count the landmark 1996 welfare law as cornerstones of their respective legacies. That law replaced a 60-year-old cash safety net with a new program of time limits and work requirements. Now countries from Britain and France to Australia and New Zealand are considering the overhaul of their own welfare systems.
But no place has come closer than Wisconsin to the goal of "ending welfare." A decade ago, 100,000 Wisconsin families relied on public aid. Now 9,000 do.
While no single state serves as the perfect policy microcosm, the Wisconsin experience is interesting not because it is typical but because it is distinctive in off-setting ways. Jobs are unusually plentiful, yet the streets of Milwaukee's central city can be as mean as any in Chicago, 90 miles south, from which many of its residents have fled.
Likewise, the new state program of public assistance, Wisconsin Works or W-2, is both unusually generous and unusually strict. All recipients are expected to work, with virtually no exceptions. But the state has also invested heavily in child care, health care, and job-placement services, and it has created thousands of community service jobs for those unable to find private work.
These fundamental changes continue to reverberate in broad and unpredictable ways. Throughout the year, The New York Times will return to Milwaukee to track the pattern of change.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Wisconsin, more and more grandmothers like Jessielean Smith are becoming care providers for their children's offspring as the state has sharply cut its welfare rolls. At the age of 43, Ms. Smith cares for a granddaughter, Na'Quee, 2, above and at left, and her brother, Nakia, 3. Their mother is in prison, and they get no help from their father. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (96%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN; UNITED STATES (96%); WISCONSIN, USA (96%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH GRANDPARENTS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); MEDICAID (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); SENTENCING (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); POLITICS (60%); BOOKSTORES (57%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON BILL CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



485 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Search for Efficiency Now Leaves Alabama Town Behind

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: GADSDEN, Ala., Feb. 17

 BODY:
It was 70 years ago this summer that Goodyear first decided to come south out of Ohio, looking for workers eager to mold rubber into tires for low wages, and the vast plateau of a factory the company built here eventually became one of the largest in the world. The decision was a critical moment in the economic recovery of the South.
But the plant's wages are not low anymore, and now, tens of millions of tires later, the never-ending search for greater efficiency has finally left northeastern Alabama behind. This month, in a move attributed in part to the Asian and Latin American economic crises, the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company announced that it would cease making tires at what it called its "inefficient" Gadsden plant, leaving only a small rubber-making operation and wiping out more than 1,300 jobs. When the final tire rolls out of the immense factory later this year, this city will face a cloudy future -- one for which it has spent more than a decade worrying and planning. 
 "When I was growing up, the sun used to rise and set on Goodyear and on the steel plant, but everyone knew we were living on borrowed time," said Cathy Back, manager of Downtown Gadsden Inc., the economic development group for the central business district, referring to the Gulf States Steel plant here, about 56 miles northeast of Birmingham. "It's no relief, but at least now it's better than being in limbo. We can finally start to recover."
As imposing as the Goodyear plant looked from the outside -- 63 acres of sturdy brick buildings put up over the years around a grand old-fashioned clock tower -- most people in the region understood that it was slowly suffocating within. From its post-war height of 4,000 jobs in 1945, invigorating a quarter of the state, employment at the plant had fallen to 1,550 workers, and employees could tell that the company was not making the kinds of high-tech investments necessary to keep the factory efficient and competitive. Under great pressure earlier in the decade, unionized workers agreed to a host of concessions to save their jobs, an agreement that Federal officials hailed as a model of labor-management cooperation.
With the future of the steel plant also in doubt, local officials became concerned in the 1980's that this city of 43,000 people could be headed downward amid the national prosperity, a loser on the roulette wheel of global competition.
The city was too dependent on two large, aging industries, officials decided, and they desperately began trying to diversify its economy before one or both big factories went under. Now Gadsden faces its largest test of all that advance planning, and the outcome will say much about how the smaller, rusting manufacturing zones of the South will be able to cope now that the textile, steel and rubber dinosaurs are dying off.
Nearly every trick in the modern city's play book has been put into place in preparation for this day. A countywide industrial development agency was created to lure expanding businesses with tax incentives. Several junior colleges and technical schools were combined to form a regional community college to turn out trained workers for employers, and an advanced technical manufacturing center was opened to assist companies eager to modernize. High schools dropped their old vocational and general education programs, and required students to choose between paths toward either college or technical programs. The city's downtown merchants spent millions trying to improve the look of the aging central business district.
"As much as this hurts, I'm convinced that the psychological impact will be greater than the economic impact," said Mike McCain, executive director of the Gadsden-Etowah County Industrial Development Authority, who is in charge of the region's economic recovery. "We will recover from this."
Mr. McCain noted that the area's unemployment rate was now 4.5 percent, one-third of what it was 15 years ago when the plant employed 3,500 people. In the last year, he said, local companies have announced plans to create 1,000 jobs in industries like metal stamping and electrical controls, and he predicted that the laid-off Goodyear workers would be able to find work after retraining.
Economists praised Gadsden leaders for working to cushion the inevitable blow, but said the kinds of jobs being lost at the Goodyear plant could not be offset in the short term. Cities that prospered in the 1950's with manufacturing plants that are now obsolete may have to wait their turn in hopes that the global economy recovers, the economists say.
"There are many pockets like this around the South, the residue of an era that has now passed," said J. Barry Mason, dean of the Culverhouse College of Commerce at the University of Alabama, in Tuscaloosa. "They have been masked somewhat by the country's tremendous prosperity, but now they are going to have to take a hard look at their natural resources and decide what kinds of projects they can hope to attract in four or five years."
In fact, many people in the region do not share Mr. McCain's iron confidence. Plant workers scoff at the notion that they can easily be retrained for other industries, pointing out that most of the newly created jobs are not unionized and pay far less than Goodyear's $18-an-hour jobs, with their generous benefits.
"You can bring jobs to the area, but what type of jobs are you bringing?" asked Jimmy Butler, 45, who has made tires at the plant since he was 20 and who also serves as mayor of the nearby small town of Sand Rock. "These are not high-paying jobs coming in. We're going to lose tax revenue and people are going to move out."
Mickey Williams, president of Local 12 of the United Steelworkers of America, which represents the factory workers, said he expected several hundred laid-off employees to move to Goodyear plants in Union City, Tenn., and Danville, Va., where they have preferential hiring rights.
"It's going to devastate the whole county," Mr. Williams said. "You have third- and fourth-generations working in that plant, mostly people in their upper 40's, and they're either going to have to move out of town or take something that pays a lot less. People don't know what they're going to do."
The virtual closing of the plant is part of what Goodyear calls a "manufacturing rationalization" that will eventually result in the layoffs of 2,500 to 2,800 employees around the world and save the company as much as $150 million a year.
Workers here were particularly angry that the concessions they had made, including lower wages and longer workdays, had only bought them a few more years of employment. "I guess it just postponed the inevitable," said Jimmy Chapman, 43, of Altoona, a machine operator who said he would be unable to relocate. "We earned our stake in this thing, and it looks like we're just going to be hung out to dry."
Goodyear workers have long been among the best-paid residents of the region, and there has been some resentment expressed among other local residents that state officials, including Governor Don Siegelman, have rushed to Gadsden to announce expedited unemployment insurance and other benefits for them.
But their liberal health insurance plans helped foster several hospitals and medical practices, and the loss of their wages will rumble through the economy. Mayor Steve Means estimated the city would lose $2 million in tax revenue, more than 5 percent of its annual budget.
The best hope for Gadsden and similar small cities is that many manufacturers are growing weary of the sprawl and transportation slowdowns in major cities like Atlanta, said Dr. Mason of the University of Alabama. Eventually, Gadsden might be able to attract one of the new automobile plants or an advanced steel mill.
"Gadsden's advantage is that its livability is high, it's on an interstate highway, and its work force has been prepared," he said. "The cities of the south have always shown a great deal of resilience in making the most of what they have."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The imposing Goodyear plant, with 63 acres of brick buildings, in Gadsden, Ala., has not been making the investments in high technology needed to remain efficient. Gov. Don Siegelman, in a suit, discussed speeding up nemployment insurance with workers last week. (Philip Holman/The Birmingham Post Herald); (Steve Latham/The Gadsden Times)
 
Map of Alabama highlighting the location of Gasden. Goodyear plans to stop making tires at its plant in Gadsden, Ala.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GT (SWX) (95%); GT (NASDAQ) (95%); GT (BRU) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (95%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (95%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (95%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (95%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (95%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (58%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (57%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (95%); GULF STATES STEEL INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: GASDEN (ALA); UNITED STATES (96%); ALABAMA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (58%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (57%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: TIRES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR LAYOFFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TIRE MFG (90%); TIRES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (87%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); RUBBER & SILICONE (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (66%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



486 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1816 words

HEADLINE: Gates's Library Gifts Arrive, But With Windows Attached

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER 

 BODY:
Alabama was first. By early last year, nearly all of the state's public libraries had computers and Internet access. Then came Louisiana and Mississippi. Next up are Arkansas, Kentucky, West Virginia and New Mexico.
"We're literally going to march through the states," said Patty Stonesifer, president of the Gates Learning Foundation. 
 The plan is to help close the growing digital divide between rich and poor by donating money for public-access computers to libraries in all 50 states by 2003. This is the stated goal of the foundation's benefactors, William H. Gates, chairman of the Microsoft Corporation, and his wife, Melinda, who recently gave $1.1 billion to the foundation, bringing its assets to $1.3 billion.
Mr. Gates does not run the foundation, but the people who run the libraries have no doubts about the source of the money. Several of the libraries that Ms. Stonesifer visited on a recent whirlwind tour of the South, accompanied by a reporter, prominently displayed a poster of Mr. Gates holding up an Ernest Hemingway novel and admonishing people to read. As Ms. Stonesifer was leaving a branch in New Orleans, an exuberant librarian called out, "Tell Mr. Gates it's like manna from heaven."
The library program offers a glimpse into Mr. Gates's newly burgeoning philanthropy -- he and his wife also gave $2 billion last month to the William H. Gates Foundation, which focuses on world health and population issues, and followed that with another $1 billion earlier this month. It also casts new light on some old questions: Can computers help bridge the nation's economic gaps? And what is the role of the public library in the digital age?
At the same time, the relatively recent involvement in public libraries by Mr. Gates, whose company is embroiled in antitrust litigation with the United States Department of Justice, suggests a nagging question: At what cost does a public institution accept the largess of a benefactor whose corporate interests are so closely linked to the social good he is providing?
The need for computers in economically disadvantaged areas is obvious. According to a report released last summer by the Department of Commerce, American households with annual income below $35,000 have PC ownership and on-line access levels well below the national average, while households earning more than $75,000 have the highest. The report said the gap had widened in the last three years.
"Figuring out a way to bridge that gap is important to us," Mr. Gates said, in E-mail, referring to himself and his wife. "We want to make sure everyone has the ability to have Internet access, regardless of where they live or how much money they have."
Critics have questioned Mr. Gates's altruism. When the Gates Learning Foundation was announced in 1997, as a spinoff of a Microsoft program called Libraries Online, skeptics noted that by encouraging the use of the technology that made him rich, Mr. Gates's philanthropic efforts could be considered self-serving. Virtually all the computers that go to the libraries run on the Microsoft Windows operating system. They arrive at the libraries loaded with a dozen or so Microsoft programs and games as well as a handful of CD-ROM programs from Corbis, an archive of images owned by Mr. Gates.
Further, the Gates money goes to libraries as a one-time grant. The foundation will supply free software upgrades, but once the hardware is obsolete, the libraries are on their own when they need to replace it. "This doesn't even qualify as philanthropy," said Theodore Roszak, a historian at California State University at Hayward and a social critic. "It's just seeding the market. You're simply lubricating future sales."
Much of the skepticism, however, which was heaviest in the earliest days of the program, has dissipated. "Carnegie gave money to build libraries on the proviso that the libraries would support themselves afterward," said John Berry, editor in chief of Library Journal. "Obviously, Gates must be biased in favor of Microsoft products, but that is the dominant technology right now."
Andrew Carnegie, the steel tycoon whose money built more than 1,600 public libraries in the United States in the early part of the century, is a name that crops up frequently alongside Mr. Gates's these days. Not since Carnegie's time, in fact, have public libraries, chronically strapped for funds, seen such an infusion of private money.
"Public libraries have been ignored over the years," said Susan Kent, city librarian at the Los Angeles Public Library, who welcomes the donations. "What the Gateses have done is say that libraries are important."
Grant recipients are not required to buy computers that run on Windows. Once the Gates Learning Foundation issues a check, librarians are free to buy whatever equipment they choose, with one condition: The money must be used for public-access computing.
There is a catch: The foundation's technical support staff is set up to install and support a specific configuration of computers manufactured by Gateway Computers. Deviating from the prescribed setup means forgoing technical support from the foundation. Since the program began, said Ms. Stonesifer, a handful of grant recipients have chosen Windows-based computers made by other companies, like Dell, but none of the recipients have opted for Macintosh computers, which do not use Windows and are made by Microsoft's main rival, Apple Computer.
This has raised some eyebrows among nonprofit organizations. "While you're free to do anything you want," said Andrew Blau, program director at the Markle Foundation in New York, "it has raised the concern that they make it so easy to do it a particular way."
Still, Mr. Blau and others credited the foundation with careful planning and implementation of the program. Technical training of librarians is extensive, and the libraries get free technical support for three years after purchasing the computers. To address the problem of obsolescence, the Gates foundation asks grant applicants to outline their plans for upgrading the equipment.
The introduction of the Gates foundation computers into libraries has not always gone smoothly. After receiving their computers, overwhelmed librarians in Troy, Ala., unplugged the machines and put them back in their boxes. The machines were returned to service only after a special visit from foundation staff members.
Libraries in extremely rural parts of Alabama have had a difficult time establishing reliable Internet connections. More than two dozen libraries in remote parts of the state have to make a toll call to reach an Internet service provider.
The grants themselves, based on the size of the population in a library's immediate service area, are not huge. The average check per library is roughly $18,000, which buys five computers, a laser printer and communications equipment. "In these small communities, a little bit of money is a profound solution," Ms. Stonesifer said.
If librarians in the communities with Gates foundation computers have any lingering doubts about making a long-term commitment to Microsoft software and Windows-based computers, they do not betray them. And although the program is still young, few public libraries -- 30 out of 733 eligible ones -- so far have refused a Gates grant, according to the foundation. In some instances, the libraries said they did not have the resources to support the computers.
Librarians are more reflective about how the computers in the library are changing both how they do their jobs and how the community perceives the library.
Rural librarians, whose budgets are often the leanest, have seen the most striking change. Take Bay Minette, Ala., north of Mobile, where 21 percent of the 8,000 residents live below the poverty level, according to the 1990 census, and one in four adults is functionally illiterate.
Charlotte Cabaniss, who runs the Bay Minette Public Library, said that since the Gates computers arrived a year ago, people who otherwise would not have thought to venture into the local library are suddenly showing up. Many of the new patrons are encountering computers and the Internet for the first time. They use the computers to type their resumes, hunt for jobs, do schoolwork, research Beanie Babies, look up medical information, investigate their family roots, send E-mail and visit wrestling sites on the Web.
Usage is heaviest after the schools let out. "When 3 P.M. comes, they hit the doors and I have to turn them away from the computers," Ms. Cabaniss said.
Librarians in Alabama have noticed that traditional information resources like books and reference materials are more often than not a second thought these days. At the public library in Satsuma, Ala., a small town north of Mobile, a globe has been exiled to the top of a shelf, looking more like a decoration than an educational tool.
But several librarians at newly computerized libraries pointed out that circulation had increased, as more people go to the library to use the computers and notice the books. Ms. Kent of the Los Angeles Public Library said that since 1996, when the library began installing public-access computers in its 67 branches -- 2 of the branches were beneficiaries of Microsoft's Libraries Online program -- circulation had steadily risen. "We see teen-agers in here every day who never ever used to use the public library," Ms. Kent said.
A bigger question, well beyond the scope of most public libraries, surrounds the problem of just how technology should be used to help those at an economic disadvantage. Closing a technical gap is one thing. Using technology in a way that, say, helps to improve academic performance or helps someone find a job is another. The learning foundation plans to expand beyond libraries to schools and community centers, and abroad.
What happens next is crucial. Helen Birenbaum, executive director of the City University of New York graduate school's Stanton/Heiskell Center for telecommunications policy, who has conducted a seven-year study on the effects of computers on academic achievement, is wary of programs like the Gates library project. "This will all fail unless there are thoughtful programs that understand how to support low-income folks," Ms. Birenbaum said. "It won't help them enough just to be able to sit in front of a computer.
"What the Gates people are doing is a first step," she said. "But I think it will fail unless there is the next step."
 "At the same time, the relatively recent involvement in public libraries by Mr. Gates, whose company is embroiled in antitrust litigation with the United States Department of Justice, suggests a nagging question: At what cost does a public institution accept the largess of a benefactor whose corporate interests are so closely linked to the social good he is providing?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 22, 1999, Monday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, the continuation of a front-page article yesterday on a philanthropic program by William H. Gates, chairman of the Microsoft Corporation, that provides computers to libraries omitted a passage in some copies. The affected section should have read:
"The library program offers a glimpse into Mr. Gates's newly burgeoning philanthropy -- he and his wife also gave $2 billion last month to the William H. Gates Foundation, which focuses on world health and population issues, and followed that with another $1 billion earlier this month. It also casts new light on some old questions: Can computers help bridge the nation's economic gaps? And what is the role of the public library in the digital age?

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Gates Learning Foundation plans to help close a digital divide between rich and poor by donating money for public-access computers to libraries in all 50 states by 2003. Janette Curry, left, a librarian in the Parkway branch in Mobile, Ala., coached children using a new computer. (Richard Anderson for The New York Times)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GATES LEARNING FOUNDATION; MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (83%); GATES LEARNING FOUNDATION (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: GATES LEARNING FOUNDATION; MICROSOFT CORP GATES LEARNING FOUNDATION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; PHILANTHROPY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET FOUNDATIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); LIBRARIANS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: HAFNER, KATIE; GATES, WILLIAM H; GATES, MELINDA BILL GATES (92%); MELINDA GATES (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



487 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Road Crews and Landscapers Threaten Rustic Stone Walls

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WINDSOR, N.Y., Feb. 20

 BODY:
Colonial farmers were bedeviled by and indebted to stones. When they plowed, dug wells or excavated for foundations, they struggled with stones. But as the farmers denuded the Northeast's forests, lumber became too valuable to be used in fences, and stone, ubiquitous and cheap, took its place.
In rural New York, stone walls still snake along hillsides and country lanes and divide densely wooded tracts that once were open fields. But increasingly, these artifacts of early America are threatened by development. 
 Some are being dismantled and rebuilt in wealthy suburbs, particularly in Westchester County, where they have become a popular landscaping accessory. Perhaps a bigger threat to stone walls may be the widening of roads originally built for horse-and-carriage traffic.
Older roads edged by stone fences are usually narrow. When a town decides to improve these roads, it will typically widen them to accommodate two lanes of traffic, to remove overhanging trees that keep sunshine from melting ice and to install drainage ditches.
In New England, where the tourist value of the rustic life is well understood, many stone walls are protected by local ordinances. But there is little, if anything, in New York's local laws to prevent highway departments from bulldozing walls to make country roads wider and straighter -- and safer.
About 170 cities, towns and villages in New York have enacted historic preservation laws, but few, if any, specifically protect stone walls, said Lucy Breyer, an analyst for the State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation.
If an old stone wall is associated with a historic building or site, state money may be available to protect it, said Maureen McCarthy, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Transportation. But because most stone walls are privately owned and not associated with a registered historical site, state agencies have no authority to prevent local highway departments from destroying them.
"Our roads are changing, and our walls are disappearing," said Gilbert Vincent, president of the New York State Historical Association in Cooperstown. Indifferent highway officials are "destroying the traditional esthetic of the countryside," he said. "But it's hard to argue that esthetics or history should take precedence over safety."
But George Bean, who owns an old farm in the Dutchess County town of Clinton, said such safety concerns are not the real issue. Mr. Bean, a Manhattan real estate manager, is a trustee of the Preservation League of New York State, a private group advocating the protection of scenic and historic roads.
In 1996, Mr. Bean and some neighbors on an old road petitioned the town board to preserve their stone walls, which include a stone wall Mr. Bean has been restoring for a decade. He was ordered to remove 700 feet of the wall because the town contended that it encroached on its property. He refused, facing down the board in an expensive legal battle until the town dropped its suit.
Mr. Bean said that highway departments, motivated by fear of liability, widen roads far more often than necessary. "Too often safety is used as an excuse," he said. "Simply because someone says this is a safety issue doesn't make it so."
Charles Wyant, Clinton's highway superintendent, finds little charm in unimproved roads. "Country dirt roads are a nightmare," he said. In the winter, they need at least four times as much salting and sanding as a paved road, he said. Residents overwhelmingly prefer paved roads because they want safe routes in icy winters and muddy springs, he said.
Mr. Wyant said that the conflict in Clinton is being driven by politically active, wealthy newcomers, not the longtime residents. And he contended that the main problem with stone walls was poor maintenance. When, for example, the walls collapse down a bank into a road, his department unceremoniously pushes them out of the way. "My crew is not paid to make someone's property look pretty," he said.
In Hyde Park, President Franklin D. Roosevelt admired the old stone walls that lined Route 9 in front of his home, said Winthrop Aldrich, the state's deputy commissioner for historic preservation.
Joyce Ghee, a former Dutchess County historian, was among those living in the region in the 1970's who became concerned with the destruction of the walls. She founded a group to raise awareness of the beauty and value of stone walls, with some success: businesses along Route 9 are not only restoring walls, they are also building new ones. "Our walls are now being protected by a community mind-set, not laws," Mrs. Ghee said.
While the Department of Transportation is frequently required by law to relocate a stone wall that is in the path of a highway, local transportation officials are usually unwilling to spend the money to do so, Mr. Aldrich said. "A town road superintendent with a hard-pressed budget will laugh at you," he said.
Building new stone retaining walls costs about $25 per square foot upstate and about $35 to $40 downstate, said Kevin Riley, a stone mason based in Ithaca. A freestanding wall is twice as expensive, and moving an existing wall costs at least as much, he said. He also said that it was not uncommon for wealthy Westchester homeowners to spend $500,000 on stone fences.
Michael Devonshire, a Manhattan architect who specializes in historic preservation projects, worries that the growing popularity of stone as a building and landscaping material could eventually lead to the "cannibalization of our heritage."
Mr. Devonshire said that he sees no imminent prospect that old stone boundaries will disappear as long as it is more economical to purchase new quarried stone. But he is concerned that if demand continues to rise, more salvaged stone may appear on the market.
According to an 1871 survey by the Federal Department of Agriculture, New York once had about 95,000 miles of stone fences, said Susan Allport, the Westchester County author of "Sermons in Stone: The Stone Walls of New England and New York" (W. W. Norton & Company, 1994). She said no one knows how many miles of these walls remain.
Ms. Allport noted that unlike today's preservationists, many 19th-century farmers were not so fond of stone walls and, in fact, came to despise them. As mechanized farm machinery made it necessary to increase the size of farm fields, the stone walls had to be removed, she said. Often the walls were sold to be crushed for road work.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture credit on Sunday with an article about the dismantling of stone walls in rural New York State misspelled the photographer's given name. She is Dorinda White, not Dorrinda.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stone walls are a vanishing artifact in New York. This survivor of modernity still keeps watch in the snowy fields of Chenango County. (Dorrinda White for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; WALLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); HISTORY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); STATE PARKS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ORDINANCES (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (74%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



488 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Big Men on Campus

 BODY:
JOHN BAHCALL, the Richard Black professor in the school of natural sciences, is a leader in astronomical science. Dr. Bahcall, 64, pioneered the development of neutrino astrophysics and contributed significantly to the study of the structure of stars, galaxies and quasars. He has also played a central role in planning and developing the Hubble space telescope. He came to the Institute for Advanced Study in 1962 from the California Institute of Technology. 

ALBERT EINSTEIN, the most famous of German-Jewish intellectuals to flee the Nazis, was a professor at the institute from 1933 until his death in 1955 at the age of 76. In 1905, at 26, he presented the principle of relativity, which revoluntionized physics. In 1915, he completed the general theory of relativity. For the rest of his life, he tried to uncover a unified field theory, which would provide a profound understanding of nature.
 
KURT GODEL, a researcher and later a professor at the institute from 1933 until his death in 1978 at age 71, has been called the greatest logician since Aristotle. Dr Godel chiefly studied logic and the foundations of mathematics. His two incompleteness theorems, the proofs of which he published in 1931 at 25, shocked the prevailing logical and mathematics was not a finished object. The Czech-born mathematician thus ended nearly at century of attempts to establish axioms that would provide a rigorous basis for all mathematics.
 
GEORGE KENNAN has been the architect of much of the American diplomatic doctrine of containment in the post World War II era. Still active as a scholar at the age of 95, Mr. Kennan has made history as well as written extensively about it. He came to the institute in 1956 as a professor in the school of historical studies after having held various diplomatic posts, including that of United States Ambassador to the Soviet Union.
 
J. ROBERT OPPENHEIMER, director of the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory from 1943 to 1945, was the chief architect of the atomic bomb. Later, he fell prey to McCarthy-era politics and was deprived of his national security clearance. He headed the institute from 1947 to 1966, longer than any other director. Dr. Oppenheimer, who died in 1967 at age 62, is largely remembered for his research in quantum mechanics, the teaching of theoretical physics, his work at Los Alamos, and his role as the elder statesman of postwar physics.
 
JOHN VON NEUMANN, a professor at the institute from 1933 to 1957 and celebrated as a mathematical genius, was known in the Princeton community as a fabulous party-giver. As a theoretician, the Hungarian-born mathematician made contributions in several areas, including quantum physics, game theory, computer science and logic. Dr. von Neumann, who died in 1957 at age 53, essentially invented game theory, which has played an important role in economic thinking, and did pioneering work in computer science. He made the first plans for the design of a stored program computer.
 
EDWARD WITTEN, the Charles Simonyi Professor of Theoretical Physics, is perhaps the most influential physicist working today. His research has a strong basis in both mathematics an physics an has markedly enriche both fields. He is largely responsible for the great contemporary interest in the theory of superstrings, whose objective is to yeil a unified theory of the forces of physics. Dr. Witten, 47, came to institute in 1987 from Princeton University.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (57%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (57%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (57%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (57%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ASTRONOMY & SPACE (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); ASTROPHYSICS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); QUANTUM MECHANICS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); HISTORY (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); TEST LABORATORIES (62%); 

PERSON: KURT GODEL (70%); GEORGE FROST KENNAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



489 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: THE RIGHT THING;
Too Much Ado About Giving References

BYLINE: By JEFFREY L. SEGLIN; Jeffrey L. Seglin is a visiting fellow at Harvard University's Center for the Study of Values in Public Life. His column on business ethics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail may be sent to righthng@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
TRY to get a detailed reference on a prospective employee these days, and you're likely to hit a wall.
Most managers balk at giving anything but the most basic information about former employees. At larger companies, inquiries are usually referred to the human resources department, which will probably only verify dates of employment, according to a recent survey by the Society for Human Resource Management. Only 19 percent of the 854 respondents in the survey would give a reference-seeker a reason why an employee had left, and only 13 percent would say anything about work habits. 
 Why won't people give substantive references any more? Because of a pervasive spoken or unspoken fear of being sued by former employees who take issue with what they had to say -- or failed to say.
But, according to C. Patrick Fleener, a management professor at the Albers School of Business and Economics at Seattle University, "the fear of being sued and losing is not well founded." Professor Fleener, co-author of a study of Federal and state court records nationwide from 1965 to 1970 and 1985 to 1990, found only 16 defamation cases arising from reference checks. And plaintiffs prevailed in only 4 of the 16, he found.
Scott Rechtschaffen, an employment lawyer at Littler Mendelson in San Francisco, said: "Part of the reason you don't see so many of these cases, from the plaintiff's perspective, is that they're quite difficult to bring. There are real problems of proof."
Still, Mr. Rechtschaffen's "standard" advice, like that of most employment lawyers, is to "give out minimal name-rank-and-serial-type information." That goes for good workers as well as bad, he said, since sticking to neutral facts only for less-than-stellar former employees would get "into the problem of the employee alleging, 'Well, their failure to give me a reference is in and of itself a negative.' "
Indeed, keeping quiet is sometimes as dangerous as speaking up. A California case involved a school that neglected to mention to a prospective employer that its former vice principal had been accused of molesting a teen-aged student. After the vice principal was accused of molesting a 13-year-old girl at his new school, the California Supreme Court ruled that the referring school could be held liable for that omission.
But few of us are in the position of having to recommend child molesters (at least ones we know about). Despite widespread belief to the contrary, it is possible to give references safely and ethically -- both positive and negative -- as long as they are truthful. Of course, if you're malicious or retaliatory, or show bias toward a group of people protected by civil rights law, you're asking for trouble.
The fact is that most people know they can still get the dope on prospective employees if they really want to.
To get or give a reference these days, "you have to build a very Rashomon kind of convoluted Byzantine structure," said Dr. Pierre Mornell, a psychiatrist and author of "45 Effective Ways for Hiring Smart" (Ten Speed Press, $24.95).
"If a lawyer or H.R. person calls a manager or C.E.O. about somebody, they're not going to say anything," Dr. Mornell said. "But they will talk back-door with somebody at their own level whom they know."
The former personnel director of a 5,000-employee company in northern California, who spoke on condition of anonymity, acknowledged as much: "While our company's policy was name, rank, and serial number, off-the-record references were given all the time."
 GONE are the days, however, when you could count on your reputation following you from job to job -- for good or ill. For managers, hiring has necessarily become more of a crap shoot, infused with suspicions about the veracity of any references received and fear about those given.
At least a dozen states are considering laws that would shield employers who give accurate information about former employees. But with lawyers and personnel departments already taking truthful discretion out of our hands, do we really want government stepping in, too? Wouldn't it make more sense to take some of the more than $5 billion spent on employment lawyers every year and put it toward freeing managers from fear of litigation by teaching them how to give fair, above-board references?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Right Thing column last Sunday, about the risks of being sued over a job reference, misattributed a study on the subject and misspelled the surname of the researcher cited erroneously. The study, a review of state and Federal court records nationwide from 1965 to 1970 and from 1985 to 1990, was conducted by Steven L. Willborn and Ramona Paetzold. A similar study -- involving court decisions and settlements in Washington, Idaho and Alaska during 1995 and 1996 -- was made by Patrick Fleenor (not Fleener) with Peter Arnesen and Marlin Blizinsky.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LITTLER MENDELSON PC (58%); SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LIBEL AND SLANDER; SUITS AND LITIGATION; HIRING AND PROMOTION LITIGATION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); CHILD ABUSE (87%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (85%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (84%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LAWYERS (74%); ETHICS (74%); LIBEL & SLANDER (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (67%); SEX OFFENSES (65%); 

PERSON: SEGLIN, JEFFREY L MICHAEL MCMAHON (86%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



490 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 8; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Black Like Us

BYLINE: By Andrea Lee; Andrea Lee is the author of the novel "Sarah Phillips."

 BODY:

OUR KIND OF PEOPLE
Inside America's Black Upper Class.
By Lawrence Otis Graham.
Illustrated. 418 pp. New York:
HarperCollins Publishers. $25.
 I'LL always remember a conversation I had back in the 1980's with a well-known New York literary figure about the black families who own weekend homes at Sag Harbor. He had spied on them on the beach, he said, and he could report that though they acted snobbish, they still ate watermelon. This ugly little joke showed, I thought, how uncomfortable even many of the most liberal white Americans are made by the idea of well-to-do black people. It is a discomfort that, sadly enough, has often been shared, ideologically and emotionally, by the wider black community itself. So immovably embedded in the American popular imagination -- so necessary to it, in some mysterious and tragic way -- is the equation of black with underclass that even icons of establishment success like Bill Cosby and Colin Powell have done little to seduce the public away from the conviction that the only authentic way to be black in America is to be poor. Although since the 19th century a growing body of literature has attested to another kind of African-American experience -- one of generations of material well-being -- books on the subject have most often been either ignored or greeted with a kind of amazed sensationalism, as shedding light on an entirely unknown world. 
 Hence the brouhaha surrounding the publication of "Our Kind of People," Lawrence Otis Graham's ambitious portrait of well-to-do black Americans, positioned to be the star turn of this year's Black History Month. Graham, a Harvard- and Princeton-educated attorney, a lecturer and television commentator on American class, race and politics, the author of 12 other books -- and, not least important, the product of a family with deep roots in the group he describes here -- spent six years (and in a sense all his life) researching this encyclopedic popular study of the customs, social organizations, educational institutions, vacation enclaves and histories of wealthy African-American communities in a dozen cities across the country. The result, constructed around fragments of Graham's autobiography, is a fascinating if unwieldy amalgam of popular history, sociological treatise and memoir that combine to demonstrate that prosperous black Americans are not isolated exceptions to the rule but form an extensive and cohesive group with distinct traditions and a strong sense of identity.
 Anyone who has grown up privileged and black in the United States will recognize the insular world Graham describes, an "upper class" tenuously defined, as any American social elite must be, by money, education and a few generations of cultured ancestors, with the addition of an obsession with light skin and Caucasian characteristics as indicators of high status. It is a world whose rituals begin in the play groups of Jack and Jill, the national organization for upper-middle-class black children, and include vacations spent in enclaves like Oak Bluffs on Martha's Vineyard. "Such was the arrogance of black privilege on that island," Graham recalls of his own childhood summers, "that it never even occurred to me that white people had summer homes on Martha's Vineyard." The picture is completed by debutante cotillions, degrees from Ivy League colleges or a suitable black university like Howard or Morehouse, and upscale professional careers crowned by membership in exclusive black social groups like the Boule or the Links. Developed between economic walls that have protected generations against the worst forms of racism, this is a cushioned existence, but hardly the theater for the aping of white society and rejection of black roots that it has often been charged with being.
 "The black bourgeoisie suffers from 'nothingness' because when Negroes attain middle-class status, their lives generally lose both content and significance," the distinguished sociologist E. Franklin Frazier wrote in his controversial 1957 study, "Black Bourgeoisie," with a hostility barely contained by the need for scholarly detachment. "Our Kind of People," though a book of a completely different genre, is clearly to some degree a reply to Frazier. And the lives Graham sketches in 400 pages of text are neither empty nor devoid of a sense of connection to a common African-American heritage.
 Looking beyond the inevitable materialism and pretension -- no different from the behavior of any rising American ethnic group -- I was struck by just how determinedly black Graham's subjects are. As he points out, privileged black Americans were active in the civil rights movement and, though conservative politically, continue to have a strong record of social activism. Many have been pioneers in integration; a recurring lament is that of parents worried that their children, taking the high road to success in white schools and universities, will lose their sense of who they are. This classic American conflict -- between the temptation to move away from roots into the general mainstream and the desire to acknowledge and preserve those roots -- appears to have increased the vigor with which well-to-do African-Americans cultivate a sense of black identity. "Even though my brothers and I attended private schools that might not have been available to prior generations of black people," a young Washingtonian tells Graham, "our involvement in Jack and Jill and our ties to our black friends and important black institutions and causes allow us to be just as . . . connected to our culture as the ancestors that preceded us. We know who we are and where we came from."
 Graham clearly loves and admires the people he is writing about, and this is both the charm of the book and its great failing. Although he is able to look with a properly ironic eye upon the absurdities of color snobbery within black circles, the pushiness of high-powered strivers, the peculiar position of middle-class blacks who dislike whites but dislike poor blacks still more, he is still terrifically impressed by what he sees. Too often a reverent tone makes his descriptions of fashionable neighborhoods, fancy educations and "lovely homes" sound not only decidedly non-U but like what in less politically correct days was called women's-magazine writing; an indiscriminate desire to shower praise and mention every possible name not only makes some chapters far too long but gives them the coy tone of 1950's Jet magazine social columns.
 Most disappointing of all is the last chapter, an absurd resurrection of that old American bugaboo, "passing" -- light-skinned black people slipping like secret agents over the line -- that reads as if it had been tacked on to satisfy the expectation that a study of flourishing, well-to-do black Americans would be incomplete unless it added, as a sort of expiatory jab, a hint that they are all yearning to be white. A far more effective conclusion would have been a chapter devoted to a major implicit theme of the book, the question of the responsibility of the black elite to the black community as a whole, and of the disgraceful hostility that continues to exist between prosperous blacks and their less privileged brothers.
 Still, though Graham allows his book to end on a whimper, he has made a major contribution both to African-American studies and to the larger American picture. "Our Kind of People" is worth buying simply for its capsule descriptions of black social organizations, which are small gems of popular history. It overflows with portraits of extraordinary personalities, like Madam C. J. Walker, America's first black woman millionaire, or the members of Washington's historic Syphax family. And it is rich with anecdote (the curious utilitarian friendship between Henry Ford and the black Detroit minister William Peck is only one example). There is material here for a latter-day Thackeray or Trollope. The most delightful parts of the book, in fact, are Graham's superbly evoked personal reminiscences, which sometimes rise to the level of high comedy -- for instance, his description of an interminable ride in the Williams Club elevator with "the Waspiest black men in New York City," or the scene in which his snobbish Memphis aunt and uncle, their spines stiff with black pride, debate whether or not to let young Graham and his brother visit Graceland, home of that "trash," Elvis Presley. In the end one feels that there is an important American novel concealed in "Our Kind of People," and one hopes that one day Graham will shake himself free of social history and write it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack and Jill mothers pose at a 1951 convention of the organization that is the leading social group for black elite children in the United States, with 220 chapters.(Courtesy Nellie Gordon Roulhac/from "Our Kind of People")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: OUR KIND OF PEOPLE: INSIDE AMERICA'S BLACK UPPER CLASS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); FAMILY (77%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); BEACHES (71%); HISTORY (71%); 

PERSON: LEE, ANDREA; GRAHAM, LAWRENCE OTIS COLIN POWELL (55%); BILL COSBY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999



491 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 7; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Making It in the Money Business: One Firm's Story

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:

GOLDMAN SACHS
The Culture of Success
By Lisa Endlich
Illustrated. 323 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $27.50.
"Money is always fashionable," Henry Goldman regularly reminded his nephew Walter Sachs. Whether such a reminder was necessary is questionable. Goldman and Sachs were the sons, respectively, of Marcus Goldman, a German-Jewish immigrant who went into the money business in lower Manhattan in 1869, and his son-in-law Sam Sachs, who joined the business in the early 1880's, thereby inscribing his name in American financial legend.
There haven't been any Goldmans or Sachs in the top positions at Goldman Sachs for a long time now, but, as Lisa Endlich's new book on the famous financial services company makes clear, Henry's comment to Walter could have served as the company motto all along. 
 Ms. Endlich's theme in "Goldman Sachs," an account of the company from its 19th-century founding to its failed effort to sell itself to the public last year, is what she calls corporate "culture." Her emphasis is on the nature of a company that remained a private partnership even as every other major investment house became a publicly traded corporation. Ms. Endlich spends a good deal of time describing the various abortive efforts by senior management to end the partnership arrangement -- in 1986, in 1996 and in 1998 -- and this provides a kind of narrative frame for her account.
But money, the acquisition of vast sums of it for the firm and its partners (along with the occasional losses of large amounts as well), is the underlying subject here, the true thread of a story of American business.
It is not an easy thing to write a lively and informed institutional history, and Ms. Endlich's effort to do so with a large investment bank is a qualified success. Certainly the transformation of an immigrant peddler's operation into a multibillion-dollar-a-year financial institution is an American classic, and Ms. Endlich describes its various stages with an insider's expertise. (She was herself a foreign currency trader at Goldman Sachs before becoming a writer.)
The dramatis personae are pretty much all managerial bureaucrats, men in suits, to whom Ms. Endlich tries valiantly to impart a sense of individuality and color. There is Robert Rubin's legendary coolness under fire, for example, or the story of why everybody called the senior partner Gustave Lehmann Levy "Gus": "Because in the time it took to say 'Mr. Levy' he was on to something else." One of the most gripping stories, something of a model of the rags-to-riches variety, is that of Sidney Weinberg, "the father of the modern Goldman Sachs," Ms. Endlich writes, who went from cleaning cuspidors and brushing the partners' suits to being named managing partner after the Depression.
Generally, however, this is an account of competitive business practices, calculations of risk, technical innovations and the search for profits in the world of high finance, and these can come across as surprisingly colorless to outsiders. Ms. Endlich writes a bit too much in the rhetorical style of the financial world, lapsing often into a kind of bureaucratic vernacular that, to a nonspecialist reader, gives more the illusion of explanation than the reality of it.
"An unsuccessful bill tender (in which the central bank sells short-term bills) by the Bank of England in July sent shock waves through the market," Ms. Endlich writes at one point, explaining the background to a serious loss suffered by the company in the currency futures market. For one who does not grasp why an unsuccessful bill tender would cause such "shock waves" (in itself an overused metaphor) this is not a satisfying sentence, and there are many others like it in this book.
Still, Ms. Endlich holds the reader's interest, in part because money is interesting and in part because risk-taking financing has its moments of high drama. She details the creation of new businesses by Goldman Sachs and explains the company's successes and failures. Some of the most fascinating passages come as she describes the company's early rise, helped by its pioneering role in taking such fledgling companies as Sears Roebuck and Continental Can public. Later Goldman Sachs developed risk arbitrage (though again Ms. Endlich's explanation of this tricky business is a bit too cursory); this was the special area of Mr. Rubin, one of Goldman Sach's brightest stars and now Secretary of the Treasury.
More than half of Ms. Endlich's history is devoted to the most recent decade or so, since the firm's first internal debates about ending its partnership arrangement and going public. Ms. Endlich chronicles in close detail the emergence of Goldman Sachs as "a global brand name," with offices and money-making power all over the world. In 1992, to give one example of its earning power, the firm made $200 million in several weeks of betting against the British pound.
Ms. Endlich describes the company's mistakes and embarrassments during this heady time. Her account of the firm's implication in the insider-trading scandals of the 1980's brings up no new or definitive material, but it covers the essential ground.
A gripping moment is Goldman Sachs's ill-advised relationship with the highly leveraged British media entrepreneur Robert Maxwell, a relationship that eventually cost the company some $253 million in out-of-court settlement costs.
As she writes of all this, Ms. Endlich engages more in business journalism than economic history. Her book is a kind of extended version of a profile one might read in, say, Fortune or Forbes magazines. It is workmanlike and informative, but it is also written so much from within the corporate, money-making "culture" she describes that it seems limited, narrow in its scope and in its breadth.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lisa Endlich (Marion Ettlinger/Alfred A. Knopf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: GOLDMAN SACHS: THE CULTURE OF SUCCESS (BOOK)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); IMMIGRATION (76%); LITERATURE (74%); WRITERS (74%); CURRENCIES (71%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, RICHARD; ENDLICH, LISA LISA ENDLICH (98%); WALTER SACHS (62%); MARCUS GOLDMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



492 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Credit Offerings Planned During the Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week consists of today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of two-year notes on Wednesday.
According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 4.43 percent and the rate on the six-month issue, 4.46 percent. In when-issued trading, the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 4.93 percent. 
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
REI Trust I, $300 million of trust-originated preferred securities due in 2048, Baa1/BBB/---/. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Stanley Works, $100 million of bonds due in 2004, A2/ A/---/. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
(Source: MCM CorporateWatch)
(Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.)
 
TAX-EXEMPT
TUESDAY
California, $500 million of general-obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
Maryland Local Facilities, $225 million of general-obligation bonds. Competitive.
Massachusetts, $250 million of debt securities. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
San Francisco City and County, $52.4 million of debt securities. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Indiana Bond Bank, $75 million of debt securities for common school fund. Everen Securities.
Jacksonville, Fla., $75 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
Massachusetts Education Loan Authority, $98 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
New York State Dormitory Authority, $120 million of debt securities for mental health. J. P. Morgan.
New York State Dormitory Authority, $55 million of debt securities for Brooklyn Medical Center. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Polk County, Fla., $61 million of school bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Washington Health Care, $65.2 million of debt securities for Southwest Washington Medical Center. Paine Webber. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); SWK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (69%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC (56%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); INDIANA BOND BANK (54%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (53%); NEW YORK STATE DORMITORY AUTHORITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE DORMITORY AUTHORITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BONDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (88%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); TAX LAW (75%); SCHOOL BONDS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



493 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
Retired Executives Offer Help on Line

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
Like many an entrepreneur these days, David Cohen had an idea for a sure-fire Internet money maker: He would design a Web page around Lemon Boy, a cartoon environmental hero he dreamed up, and use to it sell Lemon Boy-themed watches at $19 a pop -- $10 more than the watches would cost him.
But like any Web entrepreneur worth his bits, Mr. Cohen, a resident of Queens, ran the idea past a New York consultant. 
 Mr. Cohen's guru, Harry Lowenstein, convinced him that the chances of enough people stumbling onto the page, then clicking on the watch icon, and then wanting to pay $19 for a watch, were awfully low.
"Harry intrinsically understood the Web's limitations," said Mr. Cohen, who at Mr. Lowenstein's urging is drastically overhauling plans for his Lemon Boy Web site.
What's remarkable is not that Mr. Cohen, 31, heeded the consultant -- but that his Web adviser, Mr. Lowenstein, is a 79-year-old former owner of a furniture manufacturing company, who retired long before anybody coined the term "E-commerce."
It is certainly not news when retired people are pulled into the computer age by a desire to E-mail their grandchildren or check their stock portfolios on the Internet. But Mr. Lowenstein is one of 12,400 members of Score, the Service Corps of Retired Executives, a group with 389 chapters around the nation that offer free guidance to entrepreneurs. Score's members, recognizing that they cannot bill themselves as small-business experts without fully understanding what the Internet has added to the party, have immersed themselves in the nuances of the World Wide Web.
"Some old folks sit around and talk about their ailments," said Abraham Kaplan, a retired investment banker who belongs to Score's New York City chapter. "Well, we now all talk about our computer problems."
Indeed, over the last year or so, Score has tried valiantly to steep its counselors in computerese. Most Score chapters have brought in guest speakers to talk about using the Internet for promotions, sales and researching the competition. Many have installed networks of personal computers with Internet access and hired consultants to teach counselors to use them. Score's national headquarters in Washington will soon distribute a brochure about the ways the Internet affects new businesses.
Score has already plunged into the internet world. Its two-year-old Web page (www.Score.org) guides would-be clients to the closest Score office and to other helpful Web sites. It even offers hot links to a few, including the Small Business Administration and various consultants who offer advice on Year 2000 computer problems.
And now, it is letting clients, through the Web page, ask advice of Score members via E-mail. So far, 544 counselors have listed their key skills -- tax law, say, or the textiles trade -- in Score's electronic data bank. When a client E-mails a question, the computer searches the data base for an electronic match between the query and a particular counselor's stated skills. Robert Souza, the retired economist who administers the E-mail counseling system from Honolulu, says Score now handles about 3,000 E-mail queries a month.
"Nothing beats face-to-face counseling, and you can't learn to write a complex business plan through E-mail," Mr. Souza said. "But it eliminates telephone tag, and it lets people ask and answer questions from home, at any time of day or night."
It also lets them tap into a national network of experts. Ervin Simon, chairman of Score's Colorado Springs chapter, tells of a woman who runs a hot-dog stand in a small Montana city -- a long drive from the nearest Score office -- who wants to base a business on her sauerkraut relish.
"I helped with her business plan, a Southeastern patent lawyer helped with her trademark, and a California woman who had been in food manufacturing counseled her on that," Mr. Simon said. "E-mail pulled our whole network together for her."
The same system kept Daniel Adamovich from making what might have been a disastrous business move last year. Mr. Adamovich, a 52-year-old retired Air Force pilot then living in St. Louis, E-mailed Mr. Simon for advice on how to start a 1950's-theme restaurant in Colorado Springs, where he hoped to move. Mr. Simon asked a Score colleague who had been a restaurateur.
"They persuaded me that restaurants were too tough a business for someone without experience," Mr. Adamovich recalled. So, in June, Mr. Adamovich, who had always enjoyed tinkering with computers, opened a Computer Renaissance franchised store in Flagstaff, Ariz. (Colorado Springs already had one), where he fixes old computers and assembles and sells new ones.
"The minute I mentioned the idea, Erv said, 'You've hit on where you belong,' and started helping with my business plan," Mr. Adamovich said.
The E-mail setup still has its limitations. There are no pull-down menus for helping clients navigate the 600 key skills listed in the data base. That can mean, for instance, that a client who asks advice on starting an apple orchard may not be directed to counselors whose skills are listed more generally as farming or agriculture.
And a lot of counselors refuse to use the E-mail system because -- having come of age in a business world where presidents presided and secretaries typed -- they have lousy keyboard skills.
"With my hunt and peck, it could take me an hour to write two sentences," Mr. Kaplan said.
But Score's headquarters executives are betting that training and time will raise the counselors' comfort level. "Our goal is to develop a truly comprehensive computerized list of every counselor's skills, one that all counselors can tap into whenever a client asks a question they cannot answer themselves," said W. Kenneth Yancey Jr., Score's executive director.
Few Score counselors would argue with that objective. These are people, after all, who having opted to stay active in the business world are predisposed to keep technologically au courant.
But there is sometimes a gulf between the requisite will and the necessary skill -- as Lisa Sykes discovered six months ago, when she volunteered to show Score's 38 counselors in New York City how to operate their chapter's new computer network.
"I'm ready to show them what the system can do, and a third of them are saying, 'What do you call this little thing, a mouse?' or 'Where did you say the on button is?' " recalled Ms. Sykes, who is 28. "Half of them hadn't even seen Score's Web site!"
Ms. Sykes, a principal of the consulting firm of Miller Sykes New Media Services, had originally volunteered a couple of hours a week, assuming she herself could pick up some business tips in the process. But demand for her services was such that, about two months ago, Score began paying her to come in about eight hours a week to conduct one-on-one tutorials.
Ms. Sykes notes that her pupils are not always cheerful gleaners. Most of the Score counselors were bosses for much of their careers, and are used to being the source of guidance and knowledge, not the recipients.
But she says the breakthroughs have been heartening. "One man found a CD-ROM with sample business plans on it, and his reaction was, 'What am I supposed to do with this thing?' " Ms. Sykes recalled. "Now he knows how a CD reader works, he's asking the publisher's permission to print out sample plans for clients, and he's looking for Web sites that offer similar things."
Some of her students, in fact, already feel they have leapfrogged over their younger clients. William E. November, a retired real estate executive, recently guided a caterer through the fine points of posting pictures of his catering hall on the Web. But, that same week, he sent a would-be bakeshop owner to the public business library in midtown Manhattan to check out local laws, neighborhood maps and other data -- even though it is all readily available on the Web.
"The first question I ask any new client is, 'Are you on line?' " Mr. November said. "But even if they answer yes, if I don't feel they are comfortable with key-word searches, I'll send them to the library."
Ms. Sykes is pretty optimistic that Mr. November's Internet comfort level will eventually be the norm among Score members. "These guys survived mainframe computers, fax machines, calculators, lots of revolutionary technologies that became vital tools of business," she said. "It'll be like that with the Internet, too. Once they grasp it in their head, the knowledge will filter to their guts."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Liz Sykes, who teaches computer skills, works with Abraham Kaplan, a retired investment banker, at the Small Business Administration office in Manhattan. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SCORE (SERVICE CORPS OF RETIRED EXECUTIVES) RETIRED EXECUTIVES ASSOCIATION (98%); SERVICE CORPS OF RETIRED EXECUTIVES ASSOCIATION (82%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCORE (SERVICE CORPS OF RETIRED EXECUTIVES) SERVICE CORPS OF RETIRED EXECUTIVES ASSOCIATION (82%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; ELECTRONIC MAIL; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); WEB SITES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); FURNITURE MFG (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (70%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H DAVID COHEN (72%); DANIEL ADAMOVICH (70%); HARRY LOWENSTEIN (69%); ERVIN SIMON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



494 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Prospectus;
As black technology entrepreneurs organize, they are spreading the word about the benefits of 'digital freedom.'

BYLINE: By Janet Stites 

 BODY:
THE Internet has given rise to a rush of entrepreneurism as men and women from all walks of life walk away -- under the spell of equity -- from otherwise lucrative jobs to start their own businesses. New York City's black technologists are no exception. Though comparatively small in number, and nearly invisible in the greater New York Internet and new-media industry, black Internet entrepreneurs are organizing a support network, outlining steps to success and finding their own role models.
On a rainy Friday evening earlier this month at New York University, a group of black executives, professionals and students met to discuss ways to use information technology for "digital freedom," as they put it. The event was sponsored by the Blacks in New Media Association, a student group that was started last fall in the university's interactive telecommunications program. 
 "The playing field is as level as it's going to get," said B. Keith Fulton, a technologist and lawyer who is now director of technology programs and policy at the National Urban League. "You don't need a $10 million marketing budget to put up a Web site," Mr. Fulton said. "But there is consolidation in the industry, and as the Internet matures, new barriers are going to arise."
Another panelist was Bob Ponce, who wields a great deal of influence in the new- media industry as president of the World Wide Web Artist Consortium (www.wwwac.org), a grass-roots organization that has a far-reaching E-mail discussion list and that is host to numerous events for Web designers. Mr. Ponce, who is African-American, is established in the broader business world, but he believes that catering to the interests of black Americans might provide some of the best opportunities for black entrepreneurs.
"First, we need to help get our community on line," he said, referring to black Americans as a group. "Then you help create your future customers."
Black Americans are definitely coming on line, according to research from Forrester Research of Boston. According to the firm, 2.7 million African-American households (out of about 11 million) have access to the Internet, whether it be from home, work or school. That is up from two million households at the beginning of 1998.
What's important from a business standpoint, Mr. Ponce said, is that people know that blacks are alive and well in the wired world. "We have to let people know we are technology savvy," he said.
Another panelist, Auriea Harvey, who is a Web site designer and founder of Entropy8 (www.entropy8.com), is doing just that. She has a digital camera pointed at her desk so that visitors to her Web site can watch her work. "I want to make a point that I'm here, that I'm a woman and that I'm black," Ms. Harvey said.
Ms. Harvey, who has designed the Web sites of Virgin Records America and PBS, among others, wasn't always so eager to emphasize her race. "At first, the anonymity was important to me," she said. "I wanted people to see my work and judge me solely for that."
But Ms. Harvey said she had come to realize that working in the virtual world offered her advantages as a black woman over working in the real world. "On the same day you'll be working with someone on the West Coast and then someone in Switzerland," she said. "They may not even know your color, and if they find out later, it's just trivia."
When it comes to raising money for a new business, though, the interpersonal may play a role, one panelist, Omar Wasow said. "The primary barriers are more just about being a start-up, not being a black start-up," said Mr. Wasow, an African-American who is the Internet correspondent for the cable channel MSNBC. "But this is a business where social networks count for a lot," he said, in an interview after the panel.
Mr. Wasow, a 28-year-old New York native and Stanford graduate, is a Silicon Alley pioneer, having started New York Online (www.nyo.com), originally a subscription-supported dial-up on-line service, in 1993. He initially sought to create an on-line community that would reflect the diverse personalities of the city. But as on-line services moved to the Web and as community tended to take a back seat to commerce, Mr. Wasow shifted New York Online's business to concentrate on Web site design.
Mr. Wasow, who divides his time between MSNBC and his company, says that the bulk of the challenges he faces as a businessman have nothing to do with race. "Because this industry is so young and new and there's so much turmoil, it's still a wide open game with plenty of opportunity," he said.
The black entrepreneurs on the panel hesitated to say much specific about the trials of raising venture capital, and there seems to be scant industry data about the amount of capital that goes to black-owned new-media firms. But the consensus of that Friday night discussion seemed to be that while the venture capital door is open, it may not always be open quite wide enough.
Locally, the New York City Investment Corporation, which is backed by 10 banks, has a mandate to finance minority ventures. The fund, started in 1996, acts more like a bank than a venture firm, giving out loans of $50,000 to $1 million in return for equity or royalties. Though the $25 million fund does not necessarily focus on technology companies, it has lent close to $1 million to two New York-based black-owned technology firms -- Data Industries, a computer personnel staffing company, and Axicom Communications Group, an international telecommunications firm. Howard Sommer, who manages the fund, says it is now focusing more on Internet and new-media companies.
Nationally, a smattering of venture funds have been started to take advantage of underserved, or overlooked, minority businesses. None are yet catering to the New York Internet market, though.
But organizations, like Blacks in New Media, are sprouting up to help give African-American businesses a foothold in New York's Internet economy. And the New York new-media industry as a whole, which prides itself on diversity, is seeking ways to attract more minority entrepreneurs.
"We look at the attendees at our events," said Alice Rodd O'Rourke, executive director of the New York New Media Association. "And we ask, 'Where are the people of color?' We want everyone to know this industry exists and what the opportunities are."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BLACKS IN NEW MEDIA ASSN; WORLD WIDE WEB ARTIST CONSORTIUM; FORRESTER RESEARCH INC FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLACKS IN NEW MEDIA ASSN; WORLD WIDE WEB ARTIST CONSORTIUM; FORRESTER RESEARCH INC NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; BLACKS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (87%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (72%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (71%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (66%); BUDGETS (66%); 

PERSON: STITES, JANET; PONCE, BOB ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



495 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Look Who's Turning Off and Tuning Out This Time

BYLINE: By Alan Wolfe; Alan Wolfe, a professor of sociology at Boston University, is the author, most recently, of "One Nation, After All."

DATELINE: BROOKLINE, Mass.

 BODY:
Many Republicans are now bravely insisting that they will not backpedal from their conservative views, no matter how far out of the mainstream they may be.
In announcing his Presidential ambitions last Thursday, Senator Bob Smith of New Hampshire, for example, predicted that he would emerge from the pack because his views were more conservative than those of all his rivals. 
 An even more militant reaffirmation came from Paul Weyrich, founder of the Free Congress Foundation. In a widely cited letter posted on his organization's Web page last week, Mr. Weyrich said, "If there really were a moral majority out there, Bill Clinton would have been driven from office months ago." Instead, he argued, American culture had become "an ever-widening sewer."
In an astonishing replay of the 1960's, Mr. Weyrich urged his followers to "turn off, tune out and drop out of American culture." Concluding that "politics has failed," he raised speculation that he was urging conservative Christians to abandon their activist political role. But the next day he told CNN that "we're not surrendering -- we're opening a different front."
In fact, if Christian conservatives choose to abandon politics, the Republicans would have a better chance of aligning themselves with the majority of Americans.
But that is not likely to happen. Still strongly ensconced in states like Iowa, where they have shown their willingness to drive through snowstorms to attend caucuses and primaries, Christian conservatives will continue to administer litmus tests to Republican Presidential hopefuls.
This pattern began in the 1970's, when moral regulators like Mr. Weyrich and the Rev. Jerry Falwell helped shift the Republican Party to the right. But we forget that they were successful because they were able to find common ground with economic libertarians, who traditionally dominated the party.
The alliance was an unusual one. While both groups call themselves conservative, it would be difficult to find two groups more opposed in their views of human nature.
Economic libertarians believe people will generally act in their own and therefore society's best interest, so can be left alone to make the right decisions. Moral regulators believe people are tempted by sin and need a strong hand to keep them in line.
The alliance was kept intact because both groups attributed the country's most pressing problems to a "new class" of elite liberals -- academics, Hollywood producers, government bureaucrats, journalists, therapists and others.
The cultural views of this elite were not only anti-business, Republicans contended, but also morally relativistic. More important, this new class was supposedly at odds with ordinary Americans, who were said to be pro-capitalist, religious and committed to traditional, pro-family values.
Conservatives agreed that people were basically good and did not need government to make them better. Moral regulators joined economic libertarians to argue that government -- that is, the big-spending plans of liberal elites -- should be lifted off of people's backs. If only conservatives could break through the stranglehold of the cultural elites, they could claim a majority.
The argument was validated, or seemed to be, by the ascendancy of Ronald Reagan, who said Americans were fed up with overweening government, as well as by Democratic politicians like George McGovern and Michael Dukakis, who piously accused Americans of being too selfish -- a backhanded way of saying that people who had qualms about welfare or wanted criminals arrested were somehow immoral. If liberalism was behind a campaign to reform human nature, Americans were prepared to try conservatism instead.
Meanwhile the theory of the "new class" was never tested empirically -- until this past year, when Mr. Clinton's sexual misconduct forced the issue. Here was a chance for the country to make a stand against moral "relativism."
But the opposite happened. As the President's popularity held steady and even grew, conservative moralists decided that the problem was not Bill Clinton but the large majority of Americans who wanted him to remain in office. Faced with its first test, the new class theory failed.
 All of a sudden, conservative Republicans began to sound just like Jimmy Carter when he chastised Americans for being gas-guzzling narcissists. The same conservatives who ridiculed self-appointed experts for telling Americans how to live, now insist that they know better than ordinary people what is right and proper.
Republicans must decide what kind of party they want to have. If they continue to insist that Americans are too sinful to be trusted with liberty, they may end up like the Democrats of the 1970's and 80's, headed for a long winter in the political wilderness. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY A BETTER CHANCE (55%); A BETTER CHANCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY A BETTER CHANCE (55%); A BETTER CHANCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS); CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY CONSERVATISM (93%); RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); CAUCUSES (73%); FAMILY (69%); WEATHER (65%); 

PERSON: WOLFE, ALAN (PROF) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



496 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
Disputed Radio Plan Stirs Hope in Navajo Land

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON 

 BODY:
On the high desert mesas of the Navajo reservation, known for its pedestals of sculpted rock, the amenities of modern life are few.
Half of the reservation's declining population, which now numbers 172,000, live in wood-heated houses without indoor plumbing. Roads are unpaved. There are telephones in fewer than a quarter of the homes, which are scattered over an area that takes in portions of four Western states and is roughly the size of West Virginia. Only the tribal government's health service, in Window Rock, Ariz., is on line. 
 Strapped for resources and limited in its ability to provide services to its rural population, the newly elected Navajo government is turning to a Tin Lizzie medium. The tribal leaders are among the scores of individuals clamoring for access to the airwaves on a low-power FM radio signal under a plan the Federal Communications Commission opened for public comment last month.
Low-power radio could reach an entire population without the cost or technology headaches of a full-power signal, M. Teresa Hopkins, information technology coordinator for the Navajo nation's legislative branch, said at an F.C.C. hearing last month in Albuquerque, N.M.
The proposed change would relax the regulations to allow new broadcasters to transmit in areas from 2 miles to 8.8 miles. There is need all over the country for micro-radio, said Cheryl A. Leanza, a lawyer for the Media Access Project, a nonprofit telecommunications law firm.
The proposed loosening of the FM band has come under attack by the National Association of Broadcasters and Representative William J. Tauzin, a Louisiana Republican who is chairman of the House subcommittee on telecommunications. Among the issues the F.C.C. must resolve is whether to allow low-power stations to sell advertising.
The Navajo plan has raised concerns among local broadcasters. "We feel it's going to be a real detriment to small-market radio," said Paula M. Maes, executive director of the New Mexico Broadcasters Association, which has 150 stations in its membership. She said it was likely even so-called micro-broadcasters would sell advertising.
Divvying up the meager advertising revenue in small towns, where a 30-second spot sells for as little as $6, will hurt small broadcasters like Susan Coe, who owns an AM-FM operation in Lovington, N.M. "She does the morning show, does the news and in the afternoon sells ads," Ms. Maes said. "Put a microstation in a community that small, and one of them will go down."
Ms. Maes said the commercial broadcasts that reach into the reservation provide adequate local information. She pointed out that four stations offered live broadcasts of the recent state championship basketball game between top high school girls teams. "Localism is the key to our success," Ms. Maes said.
At first glance, a low-power station would seem impractical on the 25,000-square-mile reservation. Yet economic self-determination is what underlies Navajo interest. The nation already owns KTNN-AM and KWRK-FM, a high-power, traditionally run country-western music station in Window Rock that reaches the reservation and surrounding areas.
Ms. Hopkins envisions a low-power sister station on the public radio model, with broadcasts in the Navao language tailored to concerns like health (diabetes is a major issue), education and culture. Programming for such a station could be rebroadcast at school-based stations on the reservation and by Indian centers in Phoenix, Albuquerque and Los Angeles, she said.
The month-old Navajo administration of Kelsey A. Begaye has pledged to develop a digital infrastructure, and low-power radio is a first step. "We see it bridging the gap," Ms. Hopkins said. "Because we don't have technology on the reservation, it's hard to attract business. We have to educate people about what technology means."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kelsey A. Begaye, left, president of the Navajo nation, says low-power radio can knit together the reaches of the sparsely populated reservation. (Photographs by Jeffery Jones for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; NATIONAL ASSN OF BROADCASTERS; NEW MEXICO BROADCASTERS ASSN FCC CO LTD (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; NATIONAL ASSN OF BROADCASTERS; NEW MEXICO BROADCASTERS ASSN FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; INDIANS, AMERICAN; NAVAJO INDIANS; ADVERTISING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (88%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (88%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BASKETBALL (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); POWER PLANTS (68%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, ANDREA PAULA M MAES (74%); M TERESA HOPKINS (64%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



497 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Equity Offerings Scheduled

 BODY:
The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:
Com21 Inc., Milpitas, Calif., 3 million shares. CS First Boston.
 
Concentric Network Corp., San Jose, Calif., 2.5 million shares. Bear, Stearns & Co. 

Corporate Executive Board Co., Washington, an initial offering of 8.2 million shares, 6.5 million in the U.S. and Canada. Salomon Smith Barney.
 
International Smart Sourcing, Farmingdale, N.Y., an initial offering of 1.25 million shares and warrants. Network 1.
 
Intraware Inc., Orinda, Calif., an initial offering of 4 million shares. CS First Boston.
 
Invitrogen Corp., Carlsbad, Calif., an initial offering of 3.5 million shares. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
 
Knight/Trimark Group Inc., Jersey City, 9 million class A shares. BancBoston Robertson Stephens.
 
Lowe's Co., North Wilkesboro, N.C., 4.8 million shares, 3.84 million in the U.S. and Canada. Merrill Lynch & Co.
 
Star Gas Partners L.P., Stamford, Conn., 8.9 million units representing limited partnership interests. Paine Webber Inc.
 
U.S. Remodelers Inc., Dallas, an initial offering of 1.4 million units, consisting of one common share and warrant. First London Securities.
 
Unionbancal Corp., San Francisco, 22 million shares, 17.6 million in the U.S. and Canada. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
(Source: MCM Corporatewatch.) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: CEB (NYSE) (72%); LIFE (NASDAQ) (71%); KCG (PAR) (70%); KCG (NYSE) (70%); SGU (NYSE) (69%); MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (72%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); NAICS454310 FUEL DEALERS (69%); SIC5984 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); NAICS326299 ALL OTHER RUBBER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COM21 INC (91%); XO HOLDINGS INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); CORPORATE EXECUTIVE BOARD CO (72%); LIFE TECHNOLOGIES CORP (71%); ACRESSO SOFTWARE INC (71%); KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (70%); STAR GAS PARTNERS LP (69%); U S REMODELERS INC (69%); UNIONBANCAL CORP (68%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (58%); NETWORK 1 FINANCIAL GROUP INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES COMMON STOCK (78%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



498 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Antitrust Cases Illuminate Tangled Ties Atop the PC Industry;
Microsoft and Compaq: Quarrelsome Partners Or Master and Servant?

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The showdown in 1996 -- when Microsoft threatened to stop selling the Windows operating system to Compaq Computer unless Compaq also included the software maker's Internet browser -- is a central chapter in the Government's antitrust case against Microsoft.
But a look beyond the court documents indicates that that was by no means the first time the software maker that dominates the industry and the largest producer of personal computers had clashed. A dispute between the two companies, over Compaq's plans to become a software player in its own right, was creating tensions as early as 1994. 
 Understanding the companies' sometimes contentious past is crucial. For in deciding the antitrust case, the court has to make a judgment about the Compaq-Microsoft relationship: Has even the largest personal computer maker been bent to Microsoft's will in ways that stifle competition and harm consumers? Or is the relationship more one of headstrong equals in an often bumpy partnership over the years?
In the fall of 1994, William H. Gates, the chairman of the Microsoft Corporation, was upset about the Compaq Computer Corporation's software plans. Compaq had decided to load a software "shell" on its machines for the home market. Compaq saw the shell -- a layer of software that ran on top of Microsoft's Windows -- mainly as a way to make computers easier to use.
But a report to Compaq from the consulting firm, McKinsey & Company, noted that the shell could also give the computer maker a measure of independence from Microsoft. The shell, as was later the case with the Internet browser, was software that rested atop the operating system and housed start-up icons for other programs. Such functions would potentially undermine the gatekeeper's role that Windows plays in modern computing and allow Compaq to guide users to software it chose to feature. And at the same time, Compaq was building up its own software development unit in Silicon Valley, eventually staffed with about 150 engineers.
At Microsoft, the Compaq moves were regarded as almost acts of treason by a longtime business partner, posing a threat to Microsoft's control of the desktop screen and a potential assault on Windows, according to a former Microsoft executive, who spoke on the condition that he not to be identified.
"We've got to stop this," the former executive recalled Mr. Gates saying in September 1994.
He was still worried the following summer. In a meeting with executives of the PC chip maker Intel in July 1995, Mr. Gates expressed concern about Compaq's shell software and other moves. "All the things they're trying to do are dangerous," Mr. Gates was quoted as saying, according to notes taken by an Intel executive and introduced as evidence in the Microsoft trial.
Over the years, Compaq has been the most aggressive among the personal computer makers in seeking a measure of independence from Microsoft, even as it is one of Microsoft's closest allies and largest customer. Frequently, Compaq's actions have not fit neatly into the picture of a company in Microsoft's monopolistic grip, constantly seeking favors and ever-fearful of reprisal -- the picture the Government tried to paint in court last week when a Compaq executive took the stand as a defense witness for Microsoft.
Yet it is also true that there is an established pattern to the Compaq-Microsoft relationship: Compaq takes an independent path, Microsoft bristles and an accommodation is made.
Compaq removed its software shell as an alternative for the desktop, or main screen, in 1996. The move came after Microsoft tightened contract restrictions on computer makers, but also after the introduction of Windows 95, which made PC's easier to use -- addressing the key problem the shell was intended to solve. In 1996, Compaq closed its software development unit. And after being threatened with losing its Windows license, Compaq dropped its plans to remove the icon for Microsoft's Internet browser on the desktop screen for all its machines.
Understanding whether this was business brinksmanship by two equally powerful companies or a demonstration of Microsoft's power to force Compaq to back down is a key to the antitrust case. But it is not an easy determination, judging from descriptions of the Compaq-Microsoft relationship by former Compaq executives and industry executives close to the company. It is a partnership, they say, that rests on mutual dependence and is cemented by money. They agree with John T. Rose, the Compaq executive who took the stand last week, that there has been "significant give-and-take over the years."
Yet they also say that ultimately Microsoft has the upper hand in the relationship because, as Mr. Rose testified, there is no genuine alternative to Microsoft's Windows operating system, but there are many PC makers that are potential customers for Microsoft's software.
Still, no matter what one thinks of Microsoft's market power, most of them also said that having a dominant technology -- instead of a handful of competing operating systems -- has helped fuel the growth of the industry and drive down prices as consumers, software developers and hardware manufacturers gain the efficiency of working with a single standard.
"Yes, Microsoft is a company with some monopoly capabilities, but we always viewed Microsoft as a partner first," said Gary Stimac, a former senior vice president at Compaq. "And that partnership benefitted Compaq tremendously, far more than it ever hurt us."
The Government charges that Microsoft essentially bought its special relationship by giving Compaq a special price for Windows. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson has kept the testimony on pricing secret by closing the courtroom to the press and public when this confidential business information is being discussed.
But Mr. Rose, the Compaq witness, did testify that it was his company's belief that it got the lowest Windows price in the industry, mainly because it is the largest producer. The Government contends that Microsoft uses the price it charges manufacturers for Windows as a way to reward companies that give favored treatment to a wide range of Microsoft's products and punish companies who do not.
A consultant who worked for Compaq until recently said that Compaq paid about $3 less for each copy of Windows than most of its competitors. Half of that money went straight to Compaq, while the other half went into joint marketing, training and development efforts by the two companies, he said.
It is in the context of the broad relationship with Microsoft, the former Compaq and industry executives say, that the dispute over Internet software must be viewed. Mr. Rose testified that the problem arose because of "a communications breakdown" within Compaq.
Executives in Compaq's consumer division agreed in a deal with America Online Inc. to feature its service and remove the desktop icons for Microsoft's MSN on-line service and its Internet Explorer browser, in return for fees. But Mr. Rose testified that the consumer unit did not realize that more senior Compaq executives had already agreed to include Microsoft's browser and on-line software on the Windows desktop.
According to E-mail introduced in court last week, executives in Compaq's consumer unit wanted to hold onto the America Online deal and the cash it represented. "Some of the discussions inside the company got really ugly," said a former Compaq executive, who insisted on not being identified.
"The consumer group was losing money at the time," the former executive said, "and they wanted the dollar or two per machine they might get from the America Online deal. But that would jeopardize the partnership with Microsoft in which, because of the price discounts, millions and millions of dollars were flowing back and forth to the benefit of both companies."
"In the end," the former executive said, "I believe sanity prevailed."
Microsoft says that Compaq's consumer group simply misunderstood the Windows contract, which treated the browser and MSN icons as part of the operating system and thus not removable.
Whatever their past differences, Compaq and Microsoft are probably more closely aligned today than ever. Compaq increasingly sees its future as moving up the computing food chain, taking the low-cost economics of the personal computer to tackle industrial-strength corporate computing -- the traditional bailiwick of mainframes, minicomputers and big machines running the Unix operating system.
To do that, Compaq is betting that Microsoft's industrial-strength operating system, Windows NT, can scale up to handle mainstream corporate computing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Rose, a senior vice president of Compaq, leaves court last week. (Reuters)(pg. C7)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (93%); HPQ (NYSE) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MICROSOFT CORP (93%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (92%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (82%); INTEL CORP (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); COMPUTER MAKERS (91%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); TREASON (72%); MICROPROCESSORS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE BILL GATES (79%); JOHN ROSE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



499 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Curtis L. Carlson, 84, Founder Of Trading Stamp Conglomerate

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
Curtis L. Carlson, who borrowed $55 from his landlord in 1938 and didn't look back until he had turned a fledgling grocery store trading stamp company into one of the world's largest private businesses, died on Friday at a hospital near his home in Minneapolis. He was 84 and had been the sole owner of the Carlson Companies, an international conglomerate with 150,000 employees and $20 billion in annual revenue.
For a corporation whose more than 100 separate companies include the Radisson and Regent International hotel chains, T.G.I. Friday's and half a dozen other restaurant chains, several travel agencies, a cruise line, the nation's largest marketing services company, vast real estate holdings and a host of other operations in 140 countries, the Carlson Companies had distinctly humble beginnings. So did Mr. Carlson. 
 Mr. Carlson, the son of a Swedish immigrant who became a neighborhood grocer, had a childhood worthy of a Norman Rockwell painting with highlights by John D. Rockefeller.
He was a golf caddy at 9, had his first newspaper route at 11 and quickly added two others. He also operated a newsstand at a busy intersection, worked his way through college driving a soft-drink truck and engaged in a little light loansharking.
In an exercise worthy of selling refrigerators to Eskimos, Mr. Carlson as an 18-year-old summertime bank messenger would lend cash-strapped tellers $5 on a Friday and collect $6 on payday the following Monday, transactions whose three-day interest works out to an annual percentage rate exceeding 2,400 percent.
Somewhat redundantly studying economics at the University of Minnesota, Mr. Carlson graduated in 1937 and went to work as a $110-a-month soap salesman for Procter & Gamble. But he did not stay there for long.
At a time when some local department stores were seeking to assure repeat business by giving customers Security Red trading stamps, exchangeable for premiums, Mr. Carlson realized that such stamps would be ideal for grocery stores, whose identical products left them little room to distinguish themselves from the pack.
Acting on his vision, Mr. Carlson created the Gold Bond Stamp Company in 1938, with a $55 loan -- and a bit of skulduggery: He paid a department store secretary $10 for a copy of the Security Red Stamp master contract, which became his blueprint.
The idea was that a grocer would pay Mr. Carlson $14.50 for stamps that could be exchanged for products that cost $10 wholesale but had a much higher retail value. That made the stamps attractive to the grocer and to the store's customers, but not at first glance to Mr. Carlson, whose $4.50 spread would barely cover costs and overhead.
The magic of the business was that while the grocer would pay for the stamps as they were issued, it might be months before customers accumulated enough stamps to redeem them (a four-slice toaster proved to be the most popular premium) and some would not be redeemed at all, leaving Mr. Carlson with the float -- the use of the money -- for other investments.
The trick was to sell the program to enough stores to create a sizable float. But as a salesman, Mr. Carlson -- who married his college sweetheart, Arlene Martin about the time he started the business -- was shameless. To draw attention to his program he had his wife dress up in an eye-catching drum majorette uniform and march through prospective stores extolling the glories of Gold Bond stamps.
By 1941, he had signed up 200 accounts, but shortages created by World War II made sales incentives superfluous, and for a while he had to take a job with his father-in-law's clothing business.
Once the war was over in 1945, expansion came steadily. Indeed, Gold Bond did well enough to finance a series of important acquisitions. By 1962, the company had major investments in suburban Minneapolis real estate, including the site of what became its $300 million headquarters in Minnetonka, and acquired the downtown Radisson Hotel, which rapidly expanded into a 350-hotel chain.
As a result of the diversification, when the stamp business began to decline in 1968, the company continued to thrive. It changed its name to the Carlson Companies in 1973.
According to company figures, annual revenue, which did not reach $1 million until 1952, had climbed to $100 million by 1968, reached $1 billion in 1976 and topped $10 billion in 1993, with most of the growth resulting from a blistering pace of diversification.
Although he acquired an 85-foot yacht, a luxurious hunting lodge, a family compound at Lake Minnetonka and other trappings of wealth, Mr. Carlson found nothing quite so much fun as business.
Accordingly, he became known as such a hands-on boss that his executives made few major decisions, though they rarely complained. He paid them so well (the top 25 getting new luxury cars every year) that they were said to be bound to the company by golden handcuffs.
Never tempted to sell stock to the public, Mr. Carlson took pains a decade ago to keep his company private -- and in family hands -- after his death by placing all his businesses in a holding company, which his two daughters, Marilyn Nelson and Barbara Gage, will now jointly own. He also set up trusts to hold nonvoting stock for his 8 grandchildren, 6 great grandchildren and other relatives.
Mr. Carlson, who is also survived by his wife, Arlene, and by a brother, Warren, was so devoted to his business that after a brief retirement and quadruple bypass heart surgery, he resumed control in 1991 and continued to run the business until retiring again last year in favor of his elder daughter, Marilyn.
A man who gave millions to the University of Minnesota and other charities, Mr. Carlson insisted the lure of money was not what drove him. "You keep score with the money you make," he once said, "but you've got to get a thrill out of doing something that works."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Curtis L. Carlson 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (96%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (96%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CARLSON COS INC (96%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); NEWSSTANDS (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); HOTEL CHAINS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (69%); CRUISES (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TRAVEL AGENTS (55%); 

PERSON: CARLSON, CURTIS L; THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR JAY ROCKEFELLER (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



500 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Indian Country Finds A Capital in Denver

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: DENVER, Feb. 21

 BODY:
In the old days, when Ute was the lingua franca of what is now Colorado, Indian bands would travel the Old North Trail, skirting the Rocky Mountains to camp and trade in cottonwood groves here at the confluence of Cherry Creek and the South Platte River.
This year, near Confluence Park, Denver's convention center is host to a string of modern Indian gatherings: Indian youth, Indian scientists, Indian gambling executives, Indian bison managers and Indian artists. Next month, thousands of Indian dancers and traders are to converge at a bend in the South Platte for the Denver March Powwow, the annual kickoff of the West's powwow season. 
 "Denver has become the crossroads again, the place to meet and to exchange," Jack Gladstone, a Blackfoot musician from Montana, said between performances at an annual Indian market here.
In the far-flung archipelago of Indian Country, Denver is emerging as the informal capital. Denver has the nation's largest concentration of national Indian groups, about 15 associations, including the leading Indian law firm and scholarship fund.
Propelling Denver to center stage have been the city's neutrality in tribal affairs and its centrality in transportation. Free from the political sway of a large reservation, Denver is a seven-hour drive from Colorado's only reservations, the two Ute homelands in the state's far southwest corner.
"In the urban Indian political world, Denver is the primary city," Kevin Gover, Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs, said from Washington. Mr. Gover, an Oklahoma Pawnee who most recently lived in New Mexico, observed, "If we need a location where we are not favoring one group over another, Denver is neutral ground."
Often overlooked by society at large, the political importance of Denver to Indian America was underscored last year when President Clinton's advisory board on race came to town, without an Indian on the panel. Indian protesters shouted down speakers, rendering the meeting useless.
Midway between the reservations of the Northern Plains and the Pueblos and reservations of the Southwest, Denver is at the geographic center of Indian America, the nation's fastest-growing racial group.
"It's regionally accessible -- it is a day's trip home for most people," said David Cournoyer, a South Dakota Rosebud Sioux, who is spokesman for the American Indian College Fund, which is based here.
Denver's new $5 billion airport, with its white-peaked terminal, designed to look like tepees billowing on the prairie, has emerged as a hub for airports that serve Indian country: Billings, Mont.; Cortez, Colo.; Dickinson, N.D.; Farmington, N.M.; Rapid City, S.D., and Riverton, Wyo.
"We moved here because we didn't want to be branded as a regional organization, which you do if you are in the Southwest or the Northwest," said Walter Echo-Hawk, a Pawnee who is a lawyer for the Native American Rights Fund, the nation's leading Indian law firm.
Indian leaders also praised the city's racial tolerance. Enveloped by the largest metropolitan area in the Rockies, Denver is a city with a black Mayor, Wellington E. Webb. One of Colorado's Senators, Ben Nighthorse Campbell, a Northern Cheyenne and a Republican, is the only Indian in Congress.
"Denver has a welcoming personality," said Kay Culbertson, an Assiniboine-Sioux from Montana. "I have gone to Rapid City, to Billings, and I have felt the racism."
Ms. Culbertson, who runs the Denver Indian Health and Family Center, a government-supported clinic, said that Denver's booming economy drew Indians from reservations with high unemployment.
"My parents moved here because they wanted us to succeed, but to still be Indian people, to be proud of being Indian," said Ms. Culbertson, who moved here in 1966. "Many native American people have realized that Denver represents the chance to realize the American dream, that you can be prosperous."
While about 4,000 Utes live on reservations in Southwest Colorado, about 25,000 Indians live in the greater Denver area. Of the Denver population, about one-third are Lakota Sioux and about one-third are Navajo, largely descendants of Washington's relocation policy of the 1950's. Although Indians are Colorado's smallest racial minority, accounting for 1 percent of the population, they are the fastest growing group in Colorado schools, jumping by 51 percent in the 1990's, to 8,000 students today.
Despite Denver's affluence, Indian residents here face many of the hurdles that Indians face nationwide. Barely half of Denver's American Indian students complete high school by age 20, the lowest rate for any racial group in the school system.
"A lot of Indian parents and guardians are not hands-on parents," said Darius Lee Smith, director of education projects for Denver's 1,000 Indian students. Mr. Smith, who is half Navajo and half black, blamed a century of boarding school education, saying: "There is still the boarding school mentality. You drop the kid off; you see him at winter break, at summer break."
About two-thirds of American Indians live in cities. In Denver, Mr. Smith said, many feel confused about their identity. "A lot of Indians don't feel they look Indian enough," he said. "There is self-hate."
To help build an off-reservation sense of identity, Denver has granted the region's Indians a park area, Tallbull Memorial Park, where there are regular powwows, sweat lodges, lacrosse games and running meets.
Colorado's largest powwow is the Denver March Powwow, which has ballooned in 25 years to a gathering with a budget last year of $200,000 and an attendance of 55,000, from a small affair with a $6,000 budget.
"There is camaraderie all around," said Grace Gillette, executive director of the powwow, adding, "A lot of people, especially in the Plains, have cabin fever at that time, and they just want to dance."
With many roads in Indian America leading to Denver, it would be the ideal location for a permanent Indian convention and cultural center, said Danny G. Abbott, chief executive officer of the Native Power Corporation, an energy consulting company here. "Denver is the natural spot," Mr. Abbott said.
Donna Shakespeare Cummings, an Arapaho who was selling her traditional dolls at an Indian market here recently, has a different idea.
"Denver represents the homeland where the Arapaho once used to live," Mrs. Cummings said, noting that the county immediately east of Denver is called Arapahoe County. More than a century ago, the Arapaho were moved to Wyoming. "It would be really cool," she said, "if Denver opened up some land for the Arapaho to come down here again."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: As a crossroads for American Indians, Denver is home to the nation's largest concentration of national Indian groups and host to many gatherings, including an annual market and art festival. Odin Lonning, a Tlingit and member of the Alaska Native Dancers, performed at the event last month. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%); RAPID CITY, SD, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: RAPID CITY JOURNAL (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER (COLO); UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%); RAPID CITY, SD, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); MUSIC (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); DANCERS (71%); AIRPORTS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



501 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Lauder Enters Into Deal With Yugoslav Company

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20

 BODY:
Apparently in defiance of a United States policy that prohibits investment in Serbia, a company headed by Ronald S. Lauder, the cosmetics heir and former New York mayoral candidate, has entered into a commercial deal with Yugoslavia's state-run communications company.
President Clinton imposed economic sanctions last summer after President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia stepped up his campaign of violent repression in Kosovo, where ethnic Albanians have taken up arms against rule from Belgrade. 
 Two months after the President's executive order, one of Mr. Lauder's companies, RSL Communications, signed a contract with Telekom Serbia to provide long-distance telephone services to and from Yugoslavia.
The Treasury Department learned of the telecommunications deal from an article in a Government newspaper in Belgrade three months after the agreement was signed. Department officials then sent a letter to RSL saying that it appeared to violate the sanctions and asking for more information, the company said.
The next month, Mr. Lauder attended a telecommunications conference in Belgrade, during which he met with a senior Yugoslav official and businessman, Zoran Lilic. A spokesman for Mr. Lauder said he had talked with Mr. Lilic about the Jewish community in Belgrade, and had not discussed business.
RSL denies that it has done anything improper. "Our belief is that we have not violated the sanctions," said Avery Fischer, legal counsel for the company, which is publicly traded and has headquarters in Bermuda.
Mr. Fischer said that before the deal was signed in August, the company briefed the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the Treasury Department office that enforces American sanctions in place against a handful of countries, including Iraq, Iran, Cuba, North Korea and Burma.
"We got no objection," said Mr. Fischer, who declined to say how much the deal was worth.
A Treasury Department spokesman said the deal had not been approved, and was still under active review. Mr. Fischer said the company's response to the Treasury Department was that this deal is not an investment within the meaning of the sanctions law, and that if it is, it is subject to an exemption.
Mr. Fischer also said that the company had gotten approval for the deal from someone in the State Department, but that he could not recall the person's name.
The State Department's special envoy for Bosnia, Robert S. Gelbard, said that to his knowledge no one in the department had given approval, and that if RSL did apply for a license, "our inclination would be to oppose it, because we look at these sanctions very strictly."
This is not the only time that Mr. Lauder, who was Ambassador to Austria in the mid-1980's, has skidded into controversy as he has sought to build a media and communications empire in Central and Eastern Europe, where governments are struggling to cope with political and economic forces unleashed by the collapse of Communism.
On Friday in London, another of Mr. Lauder's companies, Central European Media Enterprises, was cited in a civil lawsuit and accused of having acted illegally in securing a television license in Ukraine two years ago. The suit, filed by a competing media company, Atlantic Group Ltd., argues that Central European Media conspired to get the Ukraine Government to take away a lucrative advertising and broadcast license from Atlantic Group and give it to Central European.
An officer of Atlantic Group, David Stewart, said on Friday that during the trial the plaintiffs will argue that Central European Media had reason to believe that bribes were paid to obtain the license.
A spokesman for Central European Media, Jerry Buckland, said the lawsuit was "factually false, legally meritless and motivated by a desire to extract money from CME."' He added that the company "categorically denied" that any bribes had been paid.
One of the people cited as a co-conspirators in the lawsuit is Vadim Rabinovich, Mr. Lauder's partner in Ukraine, who spent nine years in a Soviet prison and who American and European intelligence officials say has links to Russian organized crime.
When Mr. Lauder founded Central European Media, which operates television stations throughout Eastern and Central Europe, he entered the burgeoning global telecommunications field with RSL, the company name coming from his initials.
RSL, which operates in more than 20 countries, showed its boldness last May when it signed a deal to provide international telephone services in Republika Srpska, the Serbian-controlled part of Bosnia that has been shunned by most foreign investors.
That helped Mr. Lauder when he sought the contract to provide long-distance telecommunications services in Yugoslavia, a Yugoslav official said. The official, who insisted on anonymity given the repressive nature of Mr. Milosevic's rule, said RSL had secured the contract by going "through political channels at the highest levels."
The official said he had been surprised that Mr. Lauder was entering into the deal, given the United States trade sanctions.
Sanctions of varying degrees of severity have been in place against Yugoslavia since 1992; after the Dayton peace agreement that ended the fighting in Bosnia, many of the sanctions were lifted.
Last June, to punish Mr. Milosevic for his actions in Kosovo, Mr. Clinton signed an executive order prohibiting all investment in Serbia, one of the two republics that make up Yugoslavia. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RSLC (NASDAQ) (85%); CETV (NASDAQ) (76%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); BERMUDA (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); AUSTRIA (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

COMPANY: RSL COMMUNICATIONS; TELEKOM SERBIA RSL COMMUNICATIONS LTD (57%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: RSL COMMUNICATIONS; TELEKOM SERBIA TREASURY DEPARTMENT (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); BERMUDA (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); AUSTRIA (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); APPROVALS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MAYORS (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); LAWYERS (63%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (55%); JEWS & JUDAISM (51%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND; LAUDER, RONALD S BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



502 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Saipan Journal;
Palm Trees and Sun (and Who Needs an Address?)

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: SAIPAN, Northern Mariana Islands

 BODY:
No place on this entire island, a tropical teardrop of land in the Pacific Ocean, has an address.
There are no names on the roads that meander alongside the lazy palm trees, nor on the streets that crisscross the island's modest capital city. No house has a number -- not the humble shacks up on the hilly inland roads nor the fancy estates that stretch out beside a lengthy beachfront, not even the modern office buildings 
 That may sound forlorn, but it is not. It is a way of life. The sun shines every day in Saipan, where the fragrant and summery air rarely dips below 70 degrees or climbs above 80. The locals, a mix of Pacific islanders and Caucasians and Chinese and Filipinos, wear shorts and flip-flops year-round.
There seems to be little sense of urgency about anything in Saipan. Street names and numbers, many people here say, would be an unnecessary bother. An unwelcome intrusion of modern life.
"Why do you need an address, when you know where everything is?" asked Lou Drenian, a legal secretary, giving voice to a nonchalance as pervasive as Hawaiian shirts. "If I go someplace new, I just ask."
And ask. And how!
People in Saipan are so accustomed to asking and giving directions that they think nothing of lengthy and roundabout discussions involving odd landmarks. Bumps in the road, funny-looking trees, anything distinctive can help, since the streets are nameless.
That may have seemed logical in the old days, early this century, when Saipan was a distant outpost populated by only a few hundred people, and everyone knew everyone and where they lived.
But now, Saipan's population has climbed to 70,000. After being ruled by Spain, then by Japan, then by the United Nations, Saipan became a United States Commonwealth in 1978 as part of the Northern Mariana Islands. Saipan may be remembered by many Americans as the site of a fierce battle with the Japanese during World War II, but today modern features of life like fast-food joints and luxury beach resorts make it look like any other tropical corner of America. Except, of course, that there are no addresses.
Postal delivery in Saipan is no problem. There is none. Instead, residents all have boxes at the central post office, which naturally has become a lively social center, since everyone goes there regularly.
At first, finding one's way around Saipan can be confusing. But many newcomers settle into a comfortable addresslessness before long.
"When I first got here, I thought it was the dumbest thing in the world," said Terry McLaughlin, librarian at the Joetian Public Library, who moved to Saipan last year. "After a couple of months, it becomes quite normal. It personalizes things, keeps things local."
Naturally, a portion of Saipan's work force is getting impatient for addresses, even if they are a minority. Just imagine how hard it is to deliver a pizza.
"It's a real headache," said Robert Brilliantes, a pizza deliverer for Pizza Forum, just off Saipan's main road.
Inevitably, Mr. Brilliantes takes down a detailed explanation of how to find a customer's house, and relies on his mobile phone for even more specific directions after he gets lost. He is always getting lost.
"Up Navy Hill, left by the broken pump, the white house across from the basketball court," Mr. Brilliantes said, reciting the directions he was given earlier in the day. "But when I got there, there were three white houses. I had to call twice before I figured it out."
Even the slow-moving local government, which one local businessman described as alternating between laziness and vacation, has recognized the need to name and number streets. A commission was set up to do so, in 1988.
The commission apparently got bogged down as soon as it came to picking the names. A dozen large and extended families own most of Saipan, and each one wanted roads and streets named for a family patriarch or illustrious relative.
Frustrated by the bickering, the Saipan Senate passed a new bill in January, recommending action.
"To date the task of naming and numbering the streets has yet to be completed," said the bill. "The situation is reaching crisis proportions and, especially in these tough economic times, the Legislature finds that Saipan needs organization of this sort to encourage economic efficiency."
Gellyn Villajuan is all for efficiency. She runs Saipan's Federal Express office and making deliveries without addresses, as she put it, is not always express.
"You think it's easy ?" she asked, laughing, apparently pleased that anyone sympathized with her predicament. "I think I have the hardest Fedex job in the world."
Some Saipan residents have more mundane concerns.
"Victoria's Secret won't deliver to a postal box," complained Jill Howard, a teacher who has lived on Saipan for more than four years. "It's a real pain. You have to have them deliver to your family in the mainland, and have them send it out."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: On Saipan, the streets have no names, the houses no numbers. And there is no mail delivery, either. A couple of new arrivals from China went strolling on one of the Pacific island's larger unnamed roads. (Seth Faison/The New York Times)
 
Map of Saipan. Saipan can be a really big headache for the pizza delivery man.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: SAIPAN, NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAIPAN; NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); SAIPAN, NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (94%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC BEACHES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); RESORTS (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); WORLD WAR II (61%); LIBRARIES (60%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH ROBERT BRILLIANTES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



503 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: In Georgia, Vote Looms on Gingrich Successor

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Feb. 21

 BODY:
Voters in Georgia's Sixth Congressional District will choose an heir to former Speaker Newt Gingrich on Tuesday, and the only suspense seems to be whether Mr. Gingrich's hand-picked successor, Johnny Isakson, will win without a runoff in a nonpartisan race against five opponents.
Mr. Isakson, a prominent businessman, the State School Board chairman, a former state legislator, and twice failed statewide candidate, is by far the best-known, most experienced and best-financed candidate in the field. Like all but one of the candidates, he is a Republican. 
 The Sixth District, which arcs across the affluent northern suburbs of Atlanta, is considered one of the most reliably Republican districts in the country. It has been represented by Mr. Gingrich since his election to the House in 1978.
Mr. Isakson, 54, has conducted a safe, frontrunner's campaign, embracing much of the Republican Congressional leadership's economic agenda while playing down moderate stands on social issues that have alienated conservatives in his past campaigns. With several of his opponents running to his right, Mr. Isakson has portrayed his centrism as more a matter of style than of ideology.
"I've been accused oftentimes in this race of being a consensus builder and I don't run away from that," Mr. Isakson said today in the only televised debate of the campaign, which was sponsored by the Atlanta Press Club.
Mr. Gingrich announced shortly after last November's elections, when the House Republican majority lost five seats, that he would resign both the Speakership and his Congressional seat. Political leaders in the district have fretted that his loss will mean reduced Federal support for military contracts for Lockheed Martin, a significant employer, and for pet Gingrich projects like land preservation along the banks of the Chattahoochee River.
Although Mr. Gingrich has not formally endorsed Mr. Isakson, the former Speaker encouraged him to run by issuing a statement that called him "a very close personal friend" who would "do a great job of representing Georgia's Sixth District." Since announcing his candidacy on Nov. 11, Mr. Isakson has raised nearly $1 million and added $500,000 of his own money, dwarfing the combined fund-raising of all of his opponents. He has maintained a steady advertising presence on television and radio for several weeks.
The only other candidate with any name recognition is Christina F. Jeffrey, 51, a professor at Kennesaw State University who was hired and then dismissed by Mr. Gingrich in 1995 as historian of the House. Mr. Gingrich dismissed her after learning that, while heading a Federal panel that reviewed an academic course on the Holocaust, Ms. Jeffrey complained that the curriculum did not reflect the views of the Nazis or the Ku Klux Klan.
The other candidates are Leigh Baier, 58, a businessman and lawyer; Barry A. Doublestein, 45, the Republican chairman in the neighboring 11th District; Marco Longo, 27, a sales representative, and Gary Pelphrey, 63, a Democratic lawyer who was defeated by Mr. Gingrich last November.
To win on Tuesday, a candidate must take more than 50 percent of the vote. If no one gains a majority, the two top candidates will compete in a runoff on March 16.
Russell K. Paul, the state Republican chairman, said the race resembled a Republican primary far more than a general election, and he said the contest had centered on stylistic differences more than substantive ones.
"Whereas Newt was referred to as a bomb-thrower and a revolutionary, he was also a bridge burner," Mr. Paul said. "And Johnny Isakson is perceived as the quintessential bridge builder." Ms. Jeffrey, he said, is more dogmatically conservative than Mr. Gingrich.
When running in a Republican primary for the United States Senate in 1996, Mr. Isakson took the unusual step of using a television commercial to highlight his support for abortion rights. In this campaign, he has spoken about that position only when pressed, and his advertising has focused on his support for a 10 percent tax cut.
During today's debate, Ms. Jeffrey referred to herself as "the real Reagan Republican in this race," and said she would call for even deeper tax cuts. She also said she was "unashamedly pro-life."
Mr. Isakson was the only candidate who complimented the impeachment process, saying the civil nature of the proceedings demonstrated that "the Constitution of the United States of America works."
The other candidates all criticized the process.
"The Constitution was misused in the impeachment process," Ms. Jeffrey said, "in order to get the problem out of the way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Johnny Isakson is running for Newt Gingrich's House seat. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Georgia's Sith District"
Chart shows the population, ethnicity, household income and the percentage of whom attended college in Georgia's sixth district.
(Source: The Almanac of American Politics 1998)
 
Map of Georgia showing the location of the sixth congressional district. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA; UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CURRICULA (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); HISTORY (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); DISMISSALS (68%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (63%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (63%); HOLOCAUST (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: ISAKSON, JOHNNY; SACK, KEVIN; GINGRICH, NEWT NEWT GINGRICH (94%); JOHNNY ISAKSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



504 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Room Aplenty For Sprawl In the Suburbs

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
URBAN sprawl has become a hot political issue, and it is hard for New Yorkers not to take this personally. For decades, the suburbs welcomed the city's huddled masses by turning open space into homes. Now they're having a midlife crisis and suddenly need their space. Was it something we said?
But perhaps we shouldn't be so sensitive. Maybe the suburbanites are just misguided. They've been confused by two alarms sounded by Vice President Al Gore and other politicians. 
 The first is that vast amounts of land are being developed, which is false. The second is that the resulting suburban developments do not add to the sum of human happiness, which is often true, but the reforms being advocated would probably only make things worse.
The current furor is an updated version of the "vanishing farmland" scare of the 1970's, which inspired headlines warning that America would not be able to feed itself by the end of the century. The scare was set off by a report from the United States Department of Agriculture (which later repudiated the conclusions) wildly overestimating how much farmland was being lost to development.
Most of the farmland lost recently has not been sacrificed to bulldozers. Three-quarters of it still is open space -- forests and pastures, sometimes in private hands, sometimes in parks. Over the last half-century, more open space has been turned into parks and rural wildlife preserves than has been turned into suburbs.
Meanwhile, farmers have become so efficient on the remaining farmland that they're growing twice as much food as in 1950, and could easily grow much more if there were a market for it. But this trend is being ignored by Mr. Gore, who has revived the old bogeyman by warning that America could become a net importer of food if it keeps sacrificing farmland.
He and other leaders of the open-space crusade are fond of telling audiences that 50 acres an hour are being lost to developers. But this rate is actually much lower than it used to be. Land was being developed at twice that rate during the 1980's, and at four times that rate during the 1970's, according to Samuel R. Staley, an urban economist who has done a study on sprawl for the Reason Public Policy Institute, a research group in Los Angeles.
None of this development has significantly altered the ratio of open space in the United States. In 1992, Dr. Staley points out, 95.3 percent of the land in America was undeveloped. Since then, as a result of the 50 acres an hour being gobbled up by developers, the ratio of open space has fallen to -- brace yourself -- 95.1 percent. Even in New Jersey, the most built-up state, two-thirds of the land is still undeveloped.
"The open-space initiatives are solutions in search of a problem," Dr. Staley said. "Open space is a local issue in some suburbs, not something that needs to be addressed at the national or the state level. A county in northern New Jersey can decide how much open space it wants. There's no reason for people in California or southern New Jersey to help pay for the land."
BESIDES providing money to preserve open land, planners in Washington and in state capitals are promoting rules for "smart growth" -- or, as the Clinton Administration calls its new program, the Livability Agenda. In proposing the $10 billion program last month, Mr. Gore lamented "decades of ill-planned and ill-coordinated development" and said, "Plan well, and you have a community that nurtures commerce and private life."
But the problem with suburban development isn't a lack of planning. The suburbs were planned all too well. With guidance and money from Washington, experts built highways and wrote elaborate zoning codes mandating single-family houses on half-acre lots in strictly residential areas.
Now that the resulting suburbs are deemed too diffuse and sterile, today's planners want to impose a different set of rules mandating dense development with a mix of houses, apartments, stores and businesses. They want more compact and varied communities, places that feel more like an old New York neighborhood, or a Vermont village, or a small town in Ohio.
But all those wonderful old communities have one thing in common: they were built without the interference of urban planners in state capitals and Washington. In those days, local officials, builders and residents didn't need outside money or rigid zoning codes. The only Livability Agenda they followed was their own. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: SUBURBS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ZONING SUBURBS (91%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (72%); TRENDS (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); WILDLIFE (66%); IMPORT TRADE (62%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



505 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Albanian 'Nay' Puts Milosevic in Role of Yea-Sayer

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, Feb. 21

 BODY:
Kosovo's ethnic Albanians took the pressure off President Slobodan Milosevic by failing to agree to terms at talks outside Paris, Serbian officials and analysts said today, allowing Mr. Milosevic to create at least temporary divisions within the West.
Mr. Milosevic remains prepared to make a deal, these officials and analysts said, but he will want, in return, to ease his country's economic and diplomatic isolation. 
 Even Western diplomats here said that the inability of Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright to get the ethnic Albanian delegation to agree to the detailed plan being offered made it impossible to end the talks and go ahead with NATO's threatened air strikes.
At the same time, the Serbian delegation's willingness to sign on to the political arrangements for Kosovo, while objecting to the presence of NATO troops to carry out the deal, enabled the Italians and the Russians, two of the six nations in the contact group that organized the talks, to argue that the Serbs were moving toward a deal and could not be punished now, the officials and diplomats said.
The other nations in the contact group, which has backed the plan being presented at the talks in France, are the United States, Britain, France and Germany.
"The Albanians have put a foot wrong and made the work of the contact group harder," said a Western diplomat here. "There's a long way to go, but it would be a mistake for Milosevic to feel too cocky about a victory."
The headline in today's issue of the Belgrade newspaper Politika, a Government-controlled daily, read: "Contact Group in Disarray." Milos Vasic, a military expert with the independent weekly magazine Vreme, suggested ironically, "Sometimes I think the Serbs and the Albanians make pretty good partners."
The Serbs are balking at the military aspect of the plan. The Europeans in the contact group are considering a variety of incentives to offer Mr. Milosevic, but have not yet seriously discussed them with the Serbs, the officials and diplomats said.
Incentives range from lifting certain sanctions against the former Yugoslavia imposed last summer over Kosovo to Yugoslavia's membership in international organizations like the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe or even NATO's so-called Partnership for Peace.
The sanctions include a spottily implemented ban on flights by the Yugoslav national airline, JAT, to the United States and the European Union, a ban on private investment in Serbia and a ban on European trade preferences for Serbian goods, important for an economy that is in terrible shape.
For now, the Americans are concentrating on getting the ethnic Albanians to line up and mending the unity of the contact group, officials say.
"The marketplace is still open," said Bratislav Grubacic, a well-informed Serbian journalist. "I think Milosevic will accept the deal that comes out, but for now he's managed to divide the contact group."
Mr. Milosevic is attempting to dilute the NATO role in any military implementation force and have foreign troops in Kosovo under the auspices of the United Nations or Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Some here suggest that he is personally worried that NATO troops so close to Belgrade might come to arrest him if he is secretly indicted for war crimes.
But Mr. Grubacic regards Mr. Milosevic efforts as purely tactical, intended to divide the contact group. "For ordinary Serbs, it makes no difference if the foreign troops in Kosovo are under NATO or the United Nations," he said.
Mr. Vasic, the Vreme analyst, said Mr. Milosevic's distinction between NATO and a body like the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe is mere face-saving. "He wants to appear in public as a fighter, as someone who can make the great powers deliberate," he said. "Nothing has actually changed. It's still the same old boring question, as in Dayton, of how Milosevic will save his face and agree."
The 1995 Dayton agreements ended the Bosnian war.
One possible indication of Mr. Milosevic's openness to an agreement was the almost complete absence of comment in the official media from the Radical Party leader, Vojislav Seselj, a virulent nationalist who is now a member of the Milosevic Government. Mr. Seselj would ordinarily be publicly fulminating against any sort of foreign armed presence in Serbia.
Instead, the views of a fellow Government member, former democracy activist Vuk Draskovic, are being emphasized. Mr. Draskovic has been much more conciliatory toward the idea of Western help in solving the Kosovo problem.
In Kosovo itself, violence continues even as talks proceed. Serbian and ethnic Albanian sources in the province's capital, Pristina, told The Associated Press today that two police patrols came under fire, and the bodies of four ethnic Albanians -- two of them loyal to the Serbian Government -- were found.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two officers with a Serbian special police force patrolled a village road in disputed territory about 40 miles southwest of the Kosovo capital, Pristina, yesterday, while negotiators in France hit new snags in the attempt to end the conflict between the Serbs and ethnic Albanians. (Reuters)
 
Map of Serbia highlighting Pristina. Violence continued in Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); KOSOVO (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA; ITALY; FRANCE; SERBIA (99%); KOSOVO (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); TRENDS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (68%); AIRLINES (64%); WRITERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



506 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Danger: Chinese Tinderbox

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Singapore's dictator, Lee Kuan Yew a friend and sometime adviser to China's leaders -- told reporters in Europe recently that he saw "a tinderbox quality" in the dissatisfaction rampant in China's coastal cities.
"Income disparities" have caused a large part of the population to feel dispossessed, noted Lee, "and that is a society which for 40 years had it drummed into their heads that disparities are wicked and evil. 
 "Although Bill Safire thinks it's all right to be rich," Lee told us, "a lot of people who are not rich think it's not all right, and that they should have part of it, so this makes for social pressures. . . . Just across the border from Hong Kong is a Wild West town, and not for want of trying to police it."
Say what you like about Lee (and I say any government like Singapore's, long dominated by one party, is inherently corrupt, which he assures me is not libelous), he knows what goes on inside China. In a follow-up interview, I asked why Beijing's leaders were so fearful of a relative handful of dissidents.
"They're never sure of that. They look at Tiananmen," said Lee, referring to the massacre whose 10th anniversary will be marked in June. "That was a relative handful of students, and people like Fang Lizhi, a harmless astrophysicist, behind them. But it snowballed. They know they're vulnerable.
"The biggest single fear they have is the corrosive effect of graft and the revulsion that it evokes in people. They're never quite sure when it will blow up." He was careful to add: "It's not that they're all corrupt. I mean, you take Jiang Zemin or Zhu Rongji: in the center, they are quite clean."
Singapore businessmen tell Lee that many bureaucrats "really don't notice how much resentment there is. I mean, even over whole areas, it's just illegal levies, not on the books. Just 'squeeze the farmers.' He's the boss, the Party secretary."
China has a history of brutish force in dealing with criminality. "Take the way they shoot their criminals. It's a public demonstration. They bring them in, bent, pushed, humiliated. You kneel down, I shoot you in the back, one bullet. And they make the family pay for that bullet. It's a public demonstration . . . to terrorize others into not doing the same thing."
Rule by fear? "No. Because they haven't gotten a police system that can maintain a different kind of regime." Isn't that wrong? "Who are we to decide whether it's right or wrong? Can we change them?" Why not? "Ha! You try."
Setting aside punishment of criminals, what about the total repression of political freedom -- can that be changed?
"It has to be a gradual process. You have an idea how the country should be," said the dictator. "And you say, 'Well, let's change them' because you've got the levers. They sell you more than you buy from them. So -- you say 'change.' " He shook his head. "I don't think they can change their ways. And if they did, they would run very serious risks of internal unrest that may abort the whole process."
Lee and I profoundly disagree about the way to deal with what dictators call "internal unrest" and what dissidents call "the spirit of human freedom." He sees multiparty democracy as the threat to stability; I see it as the solution to China's stumbling growth and growing instability.
Perhaps because America is keeping the less free world economically afloat, Lee now denies the existence of a "Singapore model" and claims he never called the West "decadent." And because he cloaks as "Confucian communitarian" his anti-individual statism, I posed a philosophical question: Do people have an inherent right to rebel against despotism?
"That's one of the Confucianist concepts," Lee replied. "That's what the Chinese leaders fear most. Revolution in China is called qiyi -- the qi, 'to arise' and the yi for the ferociousness. So when an Emperor is despotic, corrupt, evil, it is a righteous cause to rebel. This is part of the Chinese folk culture." And that's what is worrying the regime today? "Oh, yes. Absolutely."
As times toughen, China's political rigidity invites upheaval. When Prime Minister Zhu arrives in Washington in April, President Clinton should link our trade lifeline to the relaxation of China's repression. Political crackdown is no answer to economic slowdown.
For text of the Lee interview, go to www.nytimes.com/international. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); SINGAPORE (94%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; SINGAPORE; CHINA (96%); SINGAPORE (94%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LIBEL & SLANDER (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: LEE KUAN YEW; SAFIRE, WILLIAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



507 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNORS INSIST THAT WASHINGTON RETURN TO ISSUES

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
In the bluntest possible terms, governors of both parties meeting here over the weekend told President Clinton and Congress to abandon the poisonous partisanship of the impeachment proceedings and get back to work on education and other issues of immediate concern to voters.
Within hours of arriving in Washington for the winter meeting of the National Governors' Association, the governors tried to elevate the political debate from the depths to which they said it had sunk. And Republican governors were just as forceful as Democrats in deploring Congress's single-minded focus on the impeachment issue. 
 Most of the governors present themselves as modern managers, and this year 13 new governors injected new energy into the association.
George Ryan, the Republican who took office last month as Governor of Illinois, spoke for many of the state chief executives when he said: "It's time for all this political rhetoric to be put to bed. The American public has had enough of political posturing. People want results."
Referring to the scandal that engulfed President Clinton for 13 months, Mr. Ryan said: "People who get up and go to work every morning, drive to work and carry their lunch are ready to put this whole issue behind them. It's done and over with. People are concerned about health care, education and transportation."
The governors will continue their meeting this week as Congress reconvenes, primed to debate Social Security, tax cuts, patients' rights and Federal aid to education. Mr. Clinton will meet on Tuesday at the White House with Congressional leaders, but neither side expects more than a shaky image of bipartisan cooperation.
Even as millions of Americans criticize Congress as obsessed with impeachment, governors routinely rate among the most popular politicians in the country. Republican governors emphasized repeatedly during the impeachment process that the strength of the party was not in Washington, but in state capitols.
The comments by many of the Republican governors also highlight the deep divisions in the party over its direction. Some Republican leaders, including several governors, are concerned that the party will be defined by impeachment and that Democrats will use the issue to make electoral gains. But the most conservative wing of the Republican Party, to which some members of Congress and some presidential hopefuls remain attentive, wants the Clinton scandal to remain alive.
Democratic governors are adopting the White House strategy of trying to be seen as focusing on substantive issues.
Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut, a Republican re-elected in November by a landslide, complained: "The obsession of the last year has been to embarrass the President. We need to get off that. It's impossible to embarrass this President. He's beyond shame.
"If the leaders of either party use the impeachment issue for political purposes in coming months, they need to have their heads examined. The American people are sick of it. It's over. Goodbye. People want to know what we are doing to improve the quality of life."
The chairman of the governors' association, Gov. Thomas R. Carper of Delaware, a Democrat, said, "The American people hunger for a sense of civility and consensus building," and for an end to "this enmity, this bitterness and rancor that have characterized so much of what's happened in this city in the last several years."
Two governors outshone their peers. Gov. George W. Bush of Texas won support from many Republican governors -- conservatives and moderates alike -- who said he would make an excellent candidate for President.
But at times he was upstaged by Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota, the Reform Party candidate who won an upset victory in November. Mr. Ventura arrived wearing a buckskin jacket on Saturday, but today he wore a more traditional governor's uniform, a blue business suit.
Gov. Frank Keating of Oklahoma, the chairman of the Republican Governors' Association, said: "Jesse brings a fresh perspective, the eyes and ears of the ordinary citizen. If Republicans and Democrats don't address the concerns of the ordinary citizen, there will be a lot more independent candidates like Jesse Ventura."
The nation's only other independent governor, Angus King of Maine, said Mr. Ventura's election should send a signal to party politicians. "There isn't a Republican answer," Mr. King said. "There isn't a Democratic answer. People want us to fill the potholes, make schools work and get on with it."
Gov. Michael O. Leavitt, a Utah Republican who is vice chairman of the association, said, "Governors operate in a far less partisan atmosphere" than Federal officials. "To the extent we are able to rub off a little on the Congressional leadership, hopefully that will be productive," Mr. Leavitt said.
Predictions about the productivity of the 106th Congress vary. One theory holds that it will be difficult for lawmakers to overcome the distrust bred by the searing ordeal of impeachment. Republicans and Democrats are already calibrating their moves to maximize their gains in next year's elections, with some Democrats hoping to recapture the House by depriving Republicans of any significant legislative accomplishments.
But some see potential for agreement. Congressional Republicans, according to this theory, want to show they can do more than impeach a President, while Mr. Clinton wants to insure a legacy of achievement that includes the long-term solvency of Social Security and Medicare.
Recent comments by the new Speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, suggest that he may be more open to compromises than his predecessor, Newt Gingrich, but it is unclear whether he can deliver the votes for such compromises.
The governors' agenda underscored the differences between their priorities and those of Congress. On Saturday afternoon, after expressing scorn for Congress's preoccupation with Mr. Clinton's extramarital affair, the governors held a seminar on information technology, with executives from Microsoft, TRW and the International Business Machines Corporation. Governors learned how they could use Internet technology to revolutionize the operations of state government, to improve services to citizens and to foster economic development.
At 9 A.M. today, the governors began a two-hour session with Prof. Michael E. Porter of the Harvard Business School, who said that "states are the core economic unit" in America today.
He said each governor must devise a strategy to transform "a critical mass of companies in the same field" -- wineries, oil and gas, biotechnology, for example -- into a powerhouse that can compete successfully in the global economy.
Several governors, including Mr. Rowland, Mr. Carper and Don Sundquist, Republican of Tennessee, have served in Congress. Dirk Kemp thorne, a Republican, left the Senate to become Governor of Idaho last month.
"America's challenges will be solved at the statehouse level," Mr. Kempthorne said. "That's where we're getting results. That's where we see innovations in education, welfare policy and law enforcement."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George Ryan of Illinois at a meeting of governors on Saturday. (Associated Press)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (87%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (73%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (58%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (58%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) GOVERNORS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



508 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1827 words

HEADLINE: A Fierce Lobbying War Looms in Albany Over Health Care

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 21

 BODY:
Casting as long a shadow over New York State government as any issue in recent years, health care could dominate this year's legislative session, state officials say, and it is already the subject of one of the fiercest, most complex lobbying wars in memory.
Several tightly interwoven questions must be answered: how to spend New York's share of the national tobacco settlement; what to do about the rapidly rising number of New Yorkers without health insurance; whether to accept Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed cuts in Medicaid spending, and how to cope with expected Federal cuts in Medicare. 
 At the core of the disputes is a state law that adds $2.6 billion a year in surcharges to hospital bills, mostly to help hospitals pay for training young doctors and caring for the poor. That law expires later this year.
Employers end up paying most of those charges through higher insurance premiums for their workers, and the Business Council of New York State, a group of large corporations, is lobbying hard to have the assessments eliminated or greatly reduced. That pits one of the state's most powerful interest groups against two other heavyweights -- hospitals and hospital workers -- who insist the charges are essential to their economic survival.
"I don't know if I've ever seen lobbying this intense, this early in the year," said State Senator Kemp Hannon, a Republican from Garden City, a 22-year veteran of the Legislature and chairman of the Health Committee.
Mr. Pataki has not staked out a position on renewal of the hospital charges, leaving a vacuum that the opposing sides have rushed to fill. Since last fall, they have barraged lawmakers with glossy reports, weekly faxes and requests for meetings. Throw in the disputes over the uninsured and tobacco money, and the fight has drawn in combatants like public health groups and the state's fiscal monitors.
"It's going to be the health care Super Bowl," said Elliott A. Shaw Jr., director of government affairs at the Business Council.
Democrats who control the State Assembly want to maintain the hospital charges and even expand state-financed health care programs. The Senate's Republican majority is ambivalent -- its members are closely allied with business groups and believe that there is a need to cut health care costs, but they also want to protect hospitals, which are among the biggest employers in nearly every senator's district.
In 1995, when Mr. Pataki proposed deep cuts in health care spending, a coalition led by 1199, the National Health and Human Service Employees Union, waged a fierce advertising campaign against him, predicting hospital closings. The Governor's popularity dropped sharply and he backed away from some of his demands. Dennis Rivera, president of the 150,000-member union, said he was prepared for a reprise this year.
"That might be in the cards," he said. "We have to defend the health care industry. If we don't do it, who will?"
But some lawmakers say the expected fight could be more of a fizzle. They say the issues are so complex and politically vexing that there will be a great temptation to put them off by maintaining the status quo for a year or more.
"There are so many questions that don't have answers yet, that I think there's a very good chance we'll just extend everything as is," Senator Hannon said. "On the other hand, next year is an election year, and no one is going to want to deal with this in an election year."
For years, New York was one of a handful of states that set all the rates that hospitals could charge, whether for an appendectomy or the birth of a child. The hospitals had no choice about what to charge, and insurers had no choice about what to pay. In that atmosphere, critics say, hospitals grew inefficient, and there was no question that hospitals had far more beds than were needed.
Two years ago, at Mr. Pataki's insistence, the state stopped setting rates, forcing hospitals to negotiate $16 billion a year in charges with health insurers. The change gave great power to health maintenance organizations, which could demand that hospitals lower their rates or see patients routed to other hospitals. The hospitals began competing for patients and advertising their services. To cut costs, they merged, closed wings, laid off workers and established outpatient clinics to divert patients from expensive emergency room and inpatient care.
But one aspect of the old system survived: the state continued to add charges to every hospital bill, albeit about one-third less than it had before, in what amounted to a $2.6 billion-a-year subsidy for hospitals.
The largest part of that money goes to teaching hospitals to pay for the training of medical residents, doctors in their first few years out of medical school. Another big piece goes toward paying hospitals for patient bills they say they cannot collect, usually because the patients are poor and uninsured. A third, smaller pot goes toward retraining thousands of hospital workers as they lose their jobs or are moved to new ones.
The charges increase the cost of health insurance in New York by an average of more than $400 a family. Employers complain that the expense makes them less competitive and drives businesses to other states.
"This system was supposed to be transitional," Mr. Shaw of the Business Council said. "The hospitals have made the switch to competition, so it's time for some of these charges to be phased out."
Business groups contend that the charges for graduate medical education should end. Few other states subsidize it directly through patients' bills, and none to the extent that New York does. And New York's hospitals train a disproportionately large share of the nation's medical residents, so New Yorkers often pay to teach doctors who later take their skills to other states.
Worker retraining subsidies, the business lobby says, were meant for a transition period that is now completed. And it asserts that too much of the assessment for indigent care simply covers up the poor job hospitals do in collecting bills.
Hospital and union officials counter that medical residents, who are low-paid, are an important source of relatively inexpensive health care, particularly in New York City, and that they play a crucial role in a medical research industry that is an asset to the state's economy. They argue that worker retraining must continue because cuts in hospital staffs will continue. And they dismiss as unfounded the argument that hospitals do not collect debts well.
Much of the debate is about the financial health of the hospitals, and there are signs that the Pataki administration is sympathetic to the Business Council's position. Last month, the Governor's office trumpeted a report showing that the hospitals had made record profits in 1997, the first year under the new system.
In an interview, Dennis P. Whalen, the state's Acting Health Commissioner, said: "In the past several years, whenever they've put that report out showing their profits increasing, they have said it was an anomaly. The question should never be, 'I'm a poor hospital and someone should pay me more.' "
State officials note that many hospital officials predicted doom when the current system was put in place. "I think the hospitals are generally healthy," Mr. Whalen said.
But while hospitals in New York made more money than ever in 1997, their profit margins were still much smaller than the national average, and have historically been at levels that would be considered precarious in other states. Hospital officials say that things began to turn sour in 1998 -- solid data for that year are not available yet -- and that 1999 will be bleak.
"If something doesn't happen, we're going to start imploding," said Daniel Sisto, president of the New York State Health Care Association, a hospitals' lobbying group. "We will see hospitals failing to make payrolls, unable to pay off their loans, even shutting down."
Hospitals point to billions of dollars they have lost under cuts Mr. Pataki made in 1995 and 1996 in Medicaid, the health insurance program for the poor, and under cuts Congress has made to Medicare, the program for the elderly.
State officials say those blows have been amply cushioned by $1.65 billion that the Federal Government sent to New York hospitals to help them make the transition to competition, and by a new state and Federal program to cover health care for uninsured poor children.
In his proposed budget, the Governor called for about $800 million a year in Medicaid cuts, almost half of that taken from payments to hospitals. And new Medicare cuts are expected this year from Washington.
Almost everyone involved in the debate sees the tobacco settlement as a partial answer to their problems.
Last year, the states won a $206 billion lawsuit settlement from tobacco companies, to be paid over 25 years, to compensate for money spent treating tobacco-related illnesses. At first, New York will receive $800 million a year, rising to $1.2 billion by the end of the agreement, with the first installment expected next year. The state plans to keep half the money and give half to local governments.
Mr. Pataki has said that at first, he wants to use three-quarters of the state's share to reduce state debt, a move applauded by fiscal analysts. But public health advocates insist that the state should use the money for health care and antismoking programs.
Business leaders have suggested that the tobacco money could be used to subsidize doctor training and indigent care, allowing the insurance surcharges to drop.
The health care industry is lobbying to use the money for a major effort to care for the uninsured. Both Sheldon Silver, the Democratic Assembly Speaker, and Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican Senate majority leader, say they favor such an initiative, but the Governor has signaled an interest in a more limited effort for the uninsured.
In this decade, as the number of Americans without health insurance has climbed, the number of New Yorkers in that category, now estimated at 3.5 million, has grown even faster.
The more uninsured people there are, hospital officials say, the more dependent hospitals become on the state surcharges to pay for their treatment. "In the long run -- and maybe even in the short run -- unless we do something about the uninsured, the whole system will crumble," said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association.
But business groups contend that the surcharges are partly to blame for more people being uninsured. The assessments raise the cost of insurance, leading some employers not to offer it, and some employees who are asked to pay part of the premiums not to accept it.
"No matter who is right, everything is connected to everything else," said Mr. Whalen, the Acting Health Commissioner. "There are valid arguments on all sides. This is not going to be easy." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (56%); BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (56%); BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE; HOSPITALS; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; MEDICAL SCHOOLS; MEDICAID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LOBBYING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); SMOKING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); MEDICAID (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); CLOSINGS (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (71%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



509 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Bombs-to-Plowshares Program Criticized

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

 BODY:
A study to be issued today by the Government's own auditors is highly critical of a key part of the Clinton Administration's effort to stop the spread of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons by helping to employ scientists from the former Soviet Union on peaceful projects.
The study of two Energy Department programs by the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, concludes that American aid may have instead supported scientists still working in Russia on projects related to weapons of mass destruction. 
 Some of those scientists or their institutes, the report says, may also have provided expertise not only to the weapons programs in Russia but also to those of other countries.
The programs have been aimed at keeping poorly paid Russian biological, chemical and nuclear scientists working on peaceful civilian projects and at preventing them from being lured away to work for foreign governments or terrorist groups.
One of the two programs has enormous overhead and is poorly supervised, the report concludes. It also says that the program subsidizes America's own national laboratories more than the Russian scientists it is ostensibly intended to help.
The report is the first in-depth review of the Energy Department's efforts to reduce the risk posed by unemployed weapons scientists by helping them work in commercially viable ventures. It is due to be distributed today, but a draft was made available in advance to The New York Times.
While the report says the Energy Department's effort appears to have helped keep thousands of former Soviet weapons scientists at some 170 institutes at home, not one of some 79 Washington-supported projects reviewed in the report is yet a commercial success.
The report urges the Energy Department not only to make significant changes in one of its programs, but also to delay plans to expand an ambitious newer venture to employ thousands of scientists and technicians within Russia's 10 once-closed nuclear cities.
The department responded by saying it had already adopted many changes recommended in the report. But a senior official strongly disagreed with the study's conclusion that the projects may have strengthened Russia's military capabilities, and insisted that agency funds "do not pay scientists to perform weapons work."
"This program is good for national security," said Leonard Spector, the official who oversees these and other programs to halt the spread of weapons, on which the department spends almost $500 million a year.
The second of the two programs, the so-called Nuclear Cities Initiative, is a centerpiece of the United States effort to create peaceful employment opportunities for the thousands of impoverished Russians in research institutes and atomic plants in their country's nuclear cities.
But the auditors warn that the program could cost up to $600 million during the next five years. Rather than help Russian nuclear scientists convert their work into profitable ventures, the initiative threatens to become "a subsidy program for Russia for many years," the report concludes.
Senator Jesse Helms, the Republican of North Carolina who heads the Foreign Relation Committee, said after reading the study, which he had requested, that failure to adopt the sweeping reforms recommended would "not only jeopardize continued support" for the programs, but "cast doubt on the wisdom of the Administration's desire to plow $4.5 billion into expanded nonproliferation programs in Russia."
The Energy Department's programs are only a part of a wide-ranging effort by the Clinton Administration on nonproliferation, the term that diplomats and the military use to refer to efforts to stop the spread of unconventional weapons.
Many of the programs are run by the Pentagon and some by the State Department. For each of the two Energy Department programs, the Administration is asking for $30 million this year alone.
As of last December, the Energy Department's initial program had spent more than $63 million supporting more than 400 projects in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan, 80 percent of them in Russia.
The General Accounting Office report is the first independent review of the Energy Department's five-year-old effort, known as the Initiatives for Proliferation Prevention, and was based on a three-week visit last fall by a team of Government auditors to 15 defense institutes in Russia and an investigation of 79 projects.
Among the report's key findings are:
*About $39.8 million, or 63 percent of the program's money that was supposed to support former Soviet weapons scientists, was actually spent in the United States, mostly by the Energy Department's 10 national laboratories in charge of administering the projects. Only 37 percent of the money reached the designated scientific institutes in Russia and other former Soviet republics.
*The amount of money that reached scientists at Russian institutes is unknown, "because the institutes' overhead charges, taxes and other fees reduced the amount of money available to pay scientists." Russia, in other words, taxes American foreign aid. For instance, the report notes, officials at the State Research Center of Virology and Biotechnology told the investigators that about 40 percent of scientists' salaries were taken out in taxes.
*There is "some evidence" that scientists "currently working on Russia's weapons of mass destruction program are receiving program funds" or are still working on military-related or other potentially dangerous projects.
*Eight of the nuclear-related projects approved from 1994 to 1996 could "unintentionally" provide useful military-related benefits to scientists in Russia and and other former Soviet republics.
Moreover, the auditors say, some Russian institutes that received American money and the scientists who worked there had never done weapons-related germ or chemical research. In addition, they say, the Energy Department lacks detailed records about who receives how much American aid.
The auditors said there was no evidence in the files of some 19 projects involving germ and chemical institutes that the State and Defense Departments had carried out required reviews of joint projects to assess their potential impact on national security. Only "cursory reviews" were done to insure that the projects would not harm American national security, the auditors said.
Mr. Spector of the Energy Department strongly challenged that finding, saying the department had taken "the greatest of care" in reviewing biological or chemical projects.
Finally, the report concludes, while the program has helped institutes that might otherwise have been forced to close, there is "some evidence" that at least four institutes had "contacts with countries of proliferation concern," including Iran, Libya, Pakistan, Sudan and Syria.
While the institutes told auditors that the sales and training provided to those countries were harmless, the report urges greater scrutiny.
Specifically, the auditors have urged the Energy Secretary to review the programs to insure, among other things, that his department got "more accurate data" on the number and background of key scientists supported by the program.
As for the program intended to help scientists at Russia's formerly closed nuclear cities, the auditors have urged the department not to expand the program from 3 to 10 cities during the next five years, as the Clinton Administration intends, until the projects are likely to make a profit.
Former Soviet weapons scientists echoed many of the auditors' criticisms in interviews in Russia and Kazakhstan last fall. They complained that much of the American aid intended for them was siphoned off not only by the American national labs, but in taxes and overhead charges by their own institute administrators, many of whom are still connected to Russia's security services and opposed to cooperation with the United States.
That has not been the case in the Administration's other programs, whose supervisors have learned from mistakes made early on by the Energy Department, the scientists and Clinton Administration officials agreed.
Assistance from a multilateral program run by the State Department is not taxed by Russia and is deposited directly into individual bank accounts of the scientists working on joint projects with their American counterparts.
In a statement issued on Friday, Senator Helms said it was "totally unacceptable" for Russia to tax American foreign aid. He vowed to follow up what he called the "deeply disturbing" charges in the report about the Energy Department programs.
"It is absolutely unacceptable for the Clinton Administration to donate the U.S. taxpayer's money to Russian scientists who spend their time working on poison gas, biological agents and the new nuclear weapons designs for the Russian Government," Senator Helms said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In one of Russia's formerly closed cities, Krasnoyarsk-26 in Siberia, the dismantling of an atomic reactor proceeded last year. American programs have tried to find new work for former Soviet military scientists. (James Hill for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); TERRORISM (70%); JOB CREATION (65%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



510 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1804 words

HEADLINE: Opposites Attracted To Heat Onstage

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
The seed of the triumphant new 50th-anniversary revival of "Death of a Salesman" took root in the fall of 1997 in downtown Chicago. Robert Falls, the artistic director of the Goodman Theater, was walking to dinner with Brian Dennehy, the actor with whom he had collaborated on three major productions since 1986, when Mr. Falls noticed his friend was limping. The physical imperfection suggested a frailty that Mr. Falls had never seen in Mr. Dennehy, and at that moment a casting decision was made.
"I'd reread the play recently," Mr. Falls said during a joint interview with Mr. Dennehy just before opening night of the New York production this month. "But I'd been thinking, 'Brian's too vital, too energetic, too larger than life.' But his knees were bothering him, and he was hobbling along and he was getting ready to turn 60. And I thought, 'I can see him as Willy Loman.' I called him a week later and I said, 'We're going to do 'Death of a Salesman.' And he said, 'That's a great idea.' " 
Mr. Dennehy interrupted: "That's not what I said. I said, 'We've done all these plays nobody knows. We want to do a play everybody knows?' But I said what I always say to Bob, which is 'O.K.' " He paused for a belly laugh.
"Now January or February rolls around," Mr. Dennehy continued. "And even my crummy jobs have dried up. So I call him and I say: 'What am I doing? I don't have any money, and I'm facing this operation on my knees.' And he says to me, 'You mean to tell me you're crippled and you're broke and you're going to play Willy Loman? That's perfect!' "
Mr. Falls finished for him.
"I said, 'Brian, you're going to hit the stage and be so sympathetic they'll be weeping.' And he said, 'Yeah, my accountant and my lawyer, that's who'll be weeping.' "
Mr. Falls was the prescient one. When the show played in Chicago last fall, Mr. Dennehy gave what Ben Brantley of The New York Times called the performance of his career. His portrayal propelled the show to Broadway, where it opened at the Eugene O'Neill Theater on Feb. 10 (50 years to the day that the drama first opened on Broadway) to a sample case full of ebullient reviews. (Vincent Canby in The Times yesterday was a notable exception.) Mr. Brantley was among many critics to cite the collaboration between Mr. Falls, the director who reimagined Arthur Miller's masterpiece about the final undoing of a misguided man, and the star, who fulfilled Mr. Falls's vision of an interior portrait of Willy's nightmarish breakdown.
The day after Mr. Falls and Mr. Dennehy told their collective story Mr. Brantley weighed in again. "I could hear people around me not just sniffling but sobbing," he wrote.
The men are an intriguing pair. Enormous, lumbering Irishmen, both weighing in at over 250 pounds and both buoyed by young families (Mr. Dennehy's second, Mr. Falls's first), they are separated by a generation (Mr. Dennehy is 60, Mr. Falls 44), by political persuasion (Mr. Falls leans to the left; Mr. Dennehy, is, by his own description, a reactionary) and by disposition.
Mr. Falls is an energetic optimist, which makes his recent anointing as the director of the forthcoming Disney musical "Aida" a sensible choice, even though his previous Broadway work, most recently Horton Foote's "Young Man From Atlanta," has been with dramas that had limited commercial appeal. Mr. Dennehy, who takes his character-actor persona in movies and mini-series as something of a workingman's burden, evinces a Loman-esque self-doubt. He shook his head in self-disparaging comparison as he ticked off the previous actors -- Lee J. Cobb, George C. Scott, Dustin Hoffman -- who have essayed Mr. Miller's great role on Broadway.
"The interesting problem with Willy Loman," Mr. Dennehy said, "the basic problem, is he's not a star, he's ordinary, less than ordinary in many respects. But it is a star turn."
Mr. Falls said later, with his friend out of earshot: "When we were running in Chicago, Brian said to me, 'You know, if it wasn't for me, this production would be in Broadway in a minute. I'm not Dustin Hoffman. I'm not George Scott. Am I going to sell any tickets?' "
The two men are connected by a passion for restaging classic plays in the brawny, expressionistic style that has distinguished Chicago theater for the last quarter century. The friendship has a fraternity brother quality, a genuine bond cemented with profanity-laced endearments, teasing competition (at age 17 Mr. Falls played Willy Loman in a high school production in suburban Chicago; "Brian's pretty good, but I was damn good," he said) and a penchant for finishing the other's sentences.
 
Alternating Like Blinking Lights
 "It must be like talking to George Burns and Gracie Allen," Mr. Dennehy said.
Well, not quite, but listen:
Mr. Falls: "I've always thought of Brian as my . . ."
Mr. Dennehy: "Sydney Pollack has Robert Redford. Bob Falls has Brian Dennehy."
Mr. Falls: "It's actually worse than that. When I was a young director I always wanted a muse, and when I thought of a muse, it was always a 17-year-old gorgeous girl. Little did I know Brian Dennehy would turn into my muse. Anyway, we can always say we shop at the same place, which is Al's Big and Fat."
Mr. Dennehy: "I always knew that no matter how many posh events I had to show up at in Chicago, Bob would be worse dressed than me."
Mr. Falls: "We're competing for Raymond Burr's old wardrobe."
They have known each other since 1985 when Mr. Falls, then the artistic director of Wisdom Bridge Theater in Chicago, a small, adventurous (and now defunct) group, produced Ron Hutchinson's "Rat in the Skull" and Mr. Dennehy performed in it. In 1986 when Mr. Falls was chosen to lead the Goodman, Chicago's largest and oldest nonprofit theater, then struggling with a sizable deficit, his successful strategy for reviving it was to separate the Goodman from the city's myriad younger groups by putting on large, serious, expensive plays. His first was Brecht's rarely produced "Galileo," and his only choice for the lead was Mr. Dennehy.
"I needed someone with vitality, intellectual capability, as well as carnality," Mr. Falls said. "This was a guy, Galileo, who was a thinker, but he's also a pig. A voluptuary. And I've always described Brian's acting as having that quality. He eats life."
Mr. Dennehy snorted. "Overeats life," he said. "But seriously, there are few people in my career -- a ridiculous word for this series of accidents that has been my life -- that have gotten past what I look like into something else, this possibility I have for expression, and Bob is right at the top of the list. My professional relationship with him is by far the most important one in my life."
Since then, in the gaps between the movies (like "Presumed Innocent," "Gorky Park" "Cocoon" and "Semi-Tough") and television mini-series that made Mr. Dennehy familiar enough to be confused with Charles Durning and Brian Keith, he has starred at the Goodman in Mr. Falls's productions of the O'Neill epics "Touch of the Poet" and "The Iceman Cometh," which received glowing notices but never, perhaps because of the dire economics of putting on such difficult work, a chance at the national spotlight in New York. (Mr. Dennehy last appeared on Broadway in 1995 in Brian Friel's "Translations.") It has escaped neither man that "Iceman" is to arrive on Broadway this spring with Kevin Spacey in the central role as Hickey, though they are certainly less rueful with the lavish greeting that "Death of a Salesman" has received.
The key to this new production, both men agree, is Mr. Fall's concept for the play, which was to cast aside the traditional staging, with the tiny Loman house onstage, dwarfed by the built-up city skyline, and present the play almost as a dream inside Willy Loman's head.
Mr. Miller considered titling the play "The Inside of His Head," so in a sense, Mr. Falls said, he was merely returning to the playwright's initial intention. The set, by Mark Wendland, with the rooms of the house appearing and disappearing on a turntable with the dark depths of the stage looming behind it, underscores Willy's cheerless imprisonment.
"He's experiencing violent emotions," Mr. Falls said. "And I wanted to tell the story from Willy's violent, emotional point of view. In some ways the O'Neill works are more complicated, harder emotionally, and drew on the Irish violence that Brian and I understand. It includes ego, self-loathing and destructiveness."
Mr. Dennehy put in, "And impotence."
Mr. Falls continued: "And epic melancholy. That all really informed the O'Neill work, which is where our partnership was solidified, and it was interesting to me to bring that to the world of Miller."
 
Coming to Know Willy Loman
 Mr. Dennehy's Willy always seems on a tightrope between rage and despair, a balancing act made more viscerally affecting by his size, and that distances his performance from the last one on Broadway, by Mr. Hoffman, whose Willy was a fussbudget, his disabling mental problems evoked by idiosyncratic bits of stage business. During rehearsals, Mr. Dennehy said, when he felt he hadn't figured out the character, it was Mr. Falls's encouragement to proceed without thinking so much that pushed him to discovery.
"That was good advice," Mr. Dennehy said. "Willy is an instinctive person. He's also having a great problem with his rationality. The way I see it, what makes Willy's problems fascinating is the breakdown he's going through. Willy is not terrified of the world because he believes the world is the same as he's always believed it is. What scares him is what's happening to him. He's not in control of it and can't predict it.
"A lot of the reaction to the play, it seems to me, comes from people who have seen breakdowns, and it becomes possible for an actor to go for those notes, which have to do with mental illness. Eventually I had to figure out the route he follows, but I never got away from this instinctive, reactionary thing he does, the God he has that tells him, 'You're right, you're right, it's not what you know, it's who you know.' "
Mr. Miller, who attended rehearsals in New York and appeared onstage after the opening-night performance, never saw the show in Chicago. But he blessed the collaboration with an instinct of his own. After the Goodman obtained the rights to produce the show, Mr. Falls said, he received a letter from Mr. Miller, who suggested a British actor, Warren Mitchell, to play Willy.
Mr. Falls recounted calling the playwright as a courtesy: "I said, 'Warren Mitchell is a wonderful actor, but I've got to tell you, I'm committed. This is a collaboration with Brian Dennehy.' And he said -- these were the first words out of his mouth -- 'Brian Dennehy? That's a hell of a good idea!' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the collaboration between the actor Brian Dennehy and Robert Falls, artistic director of the Goodman Theater in Chicago, on the 50th-anniversary revival of Arthur Miller's "Death of a Salesman," now on Broadway, referred incorrectly to the playwright's viewing of the production. He indeed saw it in Chicago, after its opening there last fall.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Formidable pair: Brian Dennehy, left, gives the defeated protagonist Willy Loman a new face in the latest "Death of a Salesman," staged by Robert Falls, with whom Mr. Dennehy has collaborated for a dozen years. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: DEATH OF A SALESMAN (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION THEATER (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; MILLER, ARTHUR; DENNEHY, BRIAN; FALLS, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



511 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Discrimination Agency Lightening Its Load

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
When LuAnne Borzych filed a sexual harassment charge last year with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission against a shipping company in Orlando, Fla., her complaint might have disappeared into the commission like so many others in recent years.
But officials at the commission's branch office in Miami suggested last April that Ms. Borzych and her employer submit their dispute to official mediation. They agreed that if they reached a settlement, the matter would not go to court. 
 The hearing before a mediator trained in discrimination law took one day and involved no lawyers. And while the small cash settlement she received was not all that Ms. Borzych had hoped for, she pronounced herself satisfied.
"The lady that took care of the case was extremely good at what she was doing," Ms. Borzych, 38, said in a telephone interview. "She made me understand it on my level, everything that was being said. She didn't guide me or direct me. I have to say I was pleased."
Ms. Borzych's experience illustrates what has been a striking change in the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, an agency that has long been considered one of the most troubled and ineffective in the Federal Government.
For years it was an agency that barely got around to investigating complaints of discrimination, let alone taking action against companies that engaged in biased practices. The best that people who filed charges could hope for was that after 180 days of sitting on the complaint, the agency would grant permission to sue the company in court -- a right the accuser already had.
In the last four years, the agency has more than halved its backlog of pending cases, from a high of 111,451 in June 1995 to slightly more than 52,000 today. In recent years it has won large class-action discrimination cases against the Mitsubishi Corporation and Lockheed Martin.
Congress increased its budget to $279 million for 1999, $37 million more than it received last year and the agency's first increase in years. And even some critics among civil rights groups and plaintiffs' lawyers have resumed recommending that people who believe they are victims of bias on the job file complaints with the agency. That is a marked change from the last years of the Bush Administration, when some of these lawyers told clients not to bother.
"I am not saying we are thrilled with the state of the commission in 1999," said Nancy Kreiter, an official with Woman Employed, a civil rights organization based in Chicago. "But relative to the totally broken agency that it was," said Ms. Kreiter, who has been one of the agency's harshest critics, "it has been mended and put back together and is on its way to being a fully functioning enforcement agency."
All is not perfect, of course. The agency still takes an average of 276 days to adjudicate a complaint, nowhere near the goal of fewer than 120 days that its new chairwoman, Ida L. Castro, has set.
And Ms. Castro's predecessor, Gilbert F. Casellas, said too many lawyers in the agency's field offices still filed frivolous and poorly thought-out class-action lawsuits.
"You got too many cowboys out there who want notches on their belts," he said. "Everybody's looking for the next Mitsubishi."
Much of the credit for the commission's resurrection has gone to Mr. Casellas, who presided over an overhaul beginning about five years ago to bring down the backlog, promoted alternative ways to resolve disputes, including mediation and arbitration, and looked to file high-profile lawsuits against companies that jolted other companies into becoming aware of the practices that often spawned discrimination complaints.
Civil rights groups were able to pressure the Republican-controlled Congress into providing more money for the agency by asserting that it was hypocritical for conservative opponents of affirmative action to say that all that was needed to help minorities and women was the strict enforcement of anti-bias laws, and then not to increase financing for agencies like the commission.
And some labor experts say the thriving economy has also helped, since accusations of bias often proliferate when companies are laying off workers.
The pilot mediation program that handled Ms. Borzych's case was begun two years ago during Mr. Casellas's tenure. In 1997, the program won $10.8 million in settlements for 780 people. Last year, $17 million in settlements was awarded to 1,500 people. With a bigger budget, the agency is planning to expand the program, with a goal of 8,000 settlements in the 2000 fiscal year.
Ms. Castro, chairwoman of the commission since the fall, hopes that by diverting more cases into mediation, "we can invest our resources to go after the really bad actors, those companies that simply refuse to adhere to the law."
In addition, Ms. Castro said the agency would have more time and money for cases that will help clarify and establish precedents in Federal employment discrimination law.
That the agency is being looked on more favorably is, to some longtime observers in the field, nothing short of amazing. Begun in 1965 to handle complaints of job discrimination based on race, sex, religion, national origin and age (disability was added later), the agency has always been a bureaucratic mess. Unlike other regulatory agencies, like the Federal Communications Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, it has never had the resources or management talent to prevent the complaints filed with it annually from piling up.
"It deals with real people as opposed to other regulatory agencies that deal with industries where there are big dollars at stake," said Lawrence Z. Lorber, a lawyer who represents large corporations in discrimination disputes. "So there is an institutional interest -- whether people like them or not -- to have those agencies work well. You've never had that with the E.E.O.C."
The backlog grew significantly when Justice Clarence Thomas of the Supreme Court was chairman in the 1980's. Mr. Thomas believed that each complaint, no matter how seemingly trivial, should be fully investigated. The number grew even more in the 1990's under Evan Kemp, whose tenure as chairman coincided with the passage of the Americans With Disabilities Act, which expanded the agency's responsibilities. The act made it unlawful to discriminate against people with physical and mental disabilities.
The agency drifted without leadership in the first years of the Clinton Administration. Mr. Casellas, Mr. Clinton's first appointed chairman, did not take over until October 1994. Five weeks later the Republicans took control of Congress.
"The overarching strategy was to get the backlog down, keep the Republicans in Congress engaged and committed and show them that I wasn't a firebrand," said Mr. Casellas, who is now in private business.
He instituted a system of triage both for pending cases and new complaints. Investigators would look at the complaints and urge those filing them to submit them first to binding arbitration, and later, when money became available for the pilot program, to mediation. People were urged to drop those complaints that looked like they had little or no merit.
"A lot of it was clearing out the junk in the system, and more carefully screening the incoming cases," Mr. Casellas said.
The agency also began holding seminars with businesses to explain the intricacies of Federal employment discrimination law. The view was that if businesses were more familiar with the law, they would take fewer actions that might result in complaints.
And finally, the agency vigorously pursued a series of high-profile class-action discrimination lawsuits that got the attention of many large corporations. It negotiated a $34 million settlement in a sexual harassment suit against Mitsubishi Motor Corporation's American subsidiary last year, and a $183 million settlement in 1997 in an age discrimination complaint that had been filed against Lockheed Martin's predecessor, Martin Marietta.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: March 9, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 22 about the workload of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission misidentified the defendant in a class action discrimination lawsuit won by the agency. The suit resulted in a settlement with the Mitsubishi Motor Corporation's American subsidiary, not the Mitsubishi Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Clearing Out A Backlog"
The number of discrimination cases pending before the Equal Employment Opportunity Commisssion at the end of September each year.
(Source: Equal Employment Opportunity Commission)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MBC (LSE) (64%); 8058 (TSE) (64%); LMT (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (64%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION MITSUBISHI CORP (64%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (53%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DISCRIMINATION; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION EMPLOYMENT (97%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LAWYERS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (76%); BUDGETS (70%); BUSINESS TORTS (69%); 

PERSON: CASELLAS, GILBERT F; HOLMES, STEVEN A LUANNE BORZYCH (90%); IDA L CASTRO (71%); GILBERT F CASELLAS (62%); NANCY KREITER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999



512 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: The Hillary Boomlet

 BODY:
There is something familiar about the Hillary-mania that has overtaken the media. By virtue of her announcement that she is officially thinking about whether to run for the Senate from New York, Mrs. Clinton has gotten herself on the cover of both Time and Newsweek. She was the obsession of almost all the talking heads in Washington on Sunday and probably half the Saturday night dinner parties in New York City.
It was February 1993 all over again, when the First Lady became chairwoman of the Clinton Administration's task force on health care. Mrs. Clinton made the cover of Newsweek then, was reported to be a better newsstand attraction than Princess Diana, and made a much-discussed call on Senate leaders that left everyone burbling dutifully about her intelligence and knowledge of policy. "She's sharp, she's on the ball and I can't tell you what a real pleasure it is . . . to be able to sit there and talk about your concerns with her and call her Hillary," reported Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio. 
 The health care plan's ignominious end, Travelgate, Filegate and other first-term disasters made it apparent that mixing the roles of First Lady and Administration strategist/lightning rod was not easy. For many people, the idea of Hillary Clinton for Senate is attractive just because it could allow her to untangle herself from the political side of her marriage and compete for a power base that is all her own.
Many women might ante up a campaign contribution just in the hopes of seeing Mrs. Clinton sworn in on the day that her husband becomes unemployed. She has spent her adult life mainly in the role of supportive wife -- albeit in a very modern version of that part. If the President announces that it is now Hillary's turn to shine, and his to take on the jobs of campaign cheerleader and family breadwinner, even many of the couple's critics would agree it is about time.
At this early stage in the political season, our only interest is in encouraging races that will be competitive and enlightening for the voters. Any race involving so well known, knowledgeable and polarizing a figure as Mrs. Clinton would fill those requirements. But if she does decide to run, she will be giving up some of the insulation and deference that go with being a resident of the White House. Her policy speeches will have to become more focused, her relations with the press more open. Her adversarial attitude toward the media might be understandable for a First Lady whose marriage has been under such intense and embarrassing scrutiny, but as a Senate candidate she would be expected to be available, and to answer the questions put to her.
The New York media may sometimes get more credit for feistiness than they deserve, but competitive elections in New York are exhausting, high-pressure affairs in which relatively minor mistakes can flare into crises for untested candidates. That was part of the message delivered by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani in his weekend attack on Mrs. Clinton's endorsement of Palestinian statehood. The Mayor was saying, with typical subtlety: We'd love to have you play tennis with us. Here's how hard we hit the ball -- when we're warming up.
Hillary Clinton is, at this stage, the potential candidate that Geraldine Ferraro wanted to be -- a celebrity-icon so powerful that her entrance into the race would unleash a flood of campaign contributions and a respectful retreat by other potential Democratic candidates. Mrs. Clinton can learn from Ms. Ferraro's errors. These days, nobody captures an open Senate seat in New York simply by showing up. At least, no one has done it yet. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) NEW YORK (77%); FIRST LADY&ADMINISTRATION (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NEW YORK (77%); FIRST LADY&ADMINISTRATION (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MARRIAGE (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); WOMEN (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); PRINCESS DIANA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



513 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES;
After 6 Days of Gains, Dollar Loses Ground Against the Yen

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The dollar retreated from a three-month high against the yen yesterday on expectations that the rise in the dollar would slow after last week's 6 percent gain.
The dollar fell for the first time in six days against the yen to 121.10, from 121.35 Friday and after climbing as high as 122.53 yen in Asian trading. Its drop accelerated when it fell back to 121.50 yen, setting off automatic sell orders that took it as low as 120.05 yen. Such orders are placed to protect against losses if a currency moves contrary to expectations. 
 The dollar's yen losses were tempered in afternoon trading by a rally in United States stocks and as bonds gained.
In other trading, the euro fell to its lowest level against the dollar since the single currency's inception in January on expectations that slow growth in Europe would prompt the European Central Bank to reduce interest rates.
The euro fell to $1.1024, from $1.1069 Friday, dropping as low as $1.0962 earlier. It has declined 5.5 percent against the dollar since the start of the year.
"Germany, France and Italy all seem like they're having trouble getting their economies going," said Alan Kabbani, a senior trader at First Union in Charlotte, N.C. "There's pressure to lower interest rates. I think the euro's going to continue to suffer."
Traders also sold dollars on remarks from Eisuke Sakakibara, Japan's Vice Finance Minister for international affairs, who predicted that the yen would rebound if the economy started to recover this summer, according to a Nihon Keizai newspaper report.
"You may have had some instinctive selling" on Mr. Sakakibara's remarks, said Eddie Tofpik, head of foreign exchange at ADM Investor Services in London.
To be sure, the dollar's decline is temporary, many traders and analysts said, given the weakened state of Japan's economy and strong growth in the United States. "I'm still positive on the dollar," Mr. Tofpik said.
Earlier, the dollar rose to its highest level against the yen since Dec. 2 on signs the Group of Seven leading industrial nations did not object to the yen's 5.7 percent drop this year.
Finance Ministers and central bank heads from Group of Seven countries who met over the weekend in Bonn refrained from mentioning the yen in a joint statement.
Investors and traders interpreted that as a signal that the group's leaders welcomed the yen's drop, which would help Japanese exporters and fan economic growth.
In Europe, the Bank of Italy governor, Antonio Fazio, said growth in the 11-nation euro region might expand by 2 percent or less this year. The European Commission said it might scale back its forecast last October for 2.6 percent growth.
"The problems for the euro are the same as ever," said Michael Rottmann, a currency strategist at HypoVereinsbank in Munich.
"The U.S. is in pretty good shape and this scenario should carry on," he added. "European growth remains sluggish."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since August 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



514 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: From Bosnia to Kosovo, U.S. Point Man for Peace

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 22

 BODY:
Gen. Wesley K. Clark became NATO's Supreme Allied Commander in Europe in 1997, well after the alliance had begun the biggest military operation of its 50-year history, but it was not the war with invading Soviet forces that NATO had been created to deter or fight. Instead it was a peacekeeping mission in Bosnia.
He is a West Point graduate, and a Rhodes scholar from Arkansas like his Commander in Chief, President Clinton. And General Clark, 54, could soon be presiding over another NATO peacekeeping mission in the Balkans, this time in Kosovo. 
 Today he flew to a French air base near Rambouillet, where negotiations on a settlement between Kosovo's ethnic Albanians and the Government are nearing a climax, to explain to both sides what the peacekeepers would do.
A few weeks ago he was called on to explain something else to President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia. In Belgrade, he told Mr. Milosevic what NATO could do to his military installations, using the more than 400 aircraft it has ready to strike, if he refused to accept an accord, including provisions for the NATO peacekeepers.
And today he explained to the Kosovo Albanian delegation in Rambouillet that if they agreed to settle for autonomy instead of the independence for which the rebels have been fighting, 28,000 peacekeepers would try to make sure they got the chance to make it work without fear of Serbian attack.
General Clark knows something about military-civilian standoffs, going back to the days of his youth in Little Rock, when the Eisenhower Administration sent in the National Guard to enforce desegregation. He honed his persuasive powers at Oxford University, where he studied politics, economics and philosophy, and at the National War College.
He is married to the former Gertrude Kingston of Brooklyn. They have one son, Wesley.
General Clark has the broad shoulders of the swimmer that he is, and stands out in a crowd because of his intense energy, expressed in a deep voice of command with only a trace of an Arkansas accent.
As Richard C. Holbrooke, the American diplomat who worked with General Clark to produce the accord on Bosnia in 1995, wrote in his book "To End a War" (Random House, 1998), "Clark's boyish demeanor and charm masked, but only slightly, his extraordinary intensity."
General Clark wrote the part of the Bosnia agreement that provided for the peacekeepers. It gives the commander "authority, without interference or permission of any party, to do all that the commander judges necessary and proper, including the use of military force."
Mr. Holbrooke later criticized American military leaders in Bosnia for not using that authority to protect civilians and to arrest people indicted for war crimes in The Hague.
Whether by coincidence or not, NATO arrested the first such suspect just as General Clark became Supreme Allied Commander in 1997. But the biggest names on The Hague's most wanted list, the Bosnian Serbs Radovan Karadzic and Gen. Ratko Mladic, are still at large.
General Clark warns that time is running out in Bosnia. He is using his authority to try to help as many displaced Bosnian refugees as possible get back to the homes they were forced to flee when ethnic tensions flared into open fighting in 1992.
As for carrying out the peace accord's provisions on refugees, he has shown impatience with the slow progress of the Muslim, Serbian and Croatian communities in Bosnia.
According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva, only 550,000 of the two million refugees went back in the first three years of peace in Bosnia. Of the million who would find themselves outnumbered by members of other ethnic groups if they returned, the agency reported, only 60,000 have gone back home so far.
Flying into the divided Bosnian city of Mostar recently, General Clark urged military and civilian leaders in the region to work as fast as possible to make sure that as many of the expected 50,000 refugees returning to the area as possible were able to reoccupy their homes this year. "People whose lives have been disrupted for seven years deserve to finally get to go home," he said. "Our goal is that after this year, it will no longer be possible for those who support ethnically separate communities to believe that they can succeed."
From his headquarters near Mons, Belgium, General Clark commands NATO. And as chief of the United States European Command, he also supervises all 100,000 American troops on the Continent. His headquarters for that operation is near Stuttgart, Germany.
In that job, he tells visiting American civilians, he is already in charge of some American combat missions -- the hazardous flights over north Iraq from bases in Turkey. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); ALBANIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); FRANCE (57%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (65%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); ALBANIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); FRANCE (57%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (65%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE PEACEKEEPING (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); WAR CRIMES (72%); INDICTMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: CLARK, WESLEY K (GEN) BILL CLINTON (72%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



515 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Vinegar Bend Mizell, Pitcher, Is Dead at 68

BYLINE: By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN 

 BODY:
Wilmer (Vinegar Bend) Mizell, a fastballing left-hander with a well-publicized country-boy image who pitched for nine seasons in the National League, then served as a Congressman from North Carolina and an official in the Ford and Reagan Administrations, collapsed and died Sunday while visiting family members in Kerrville, Tex. He was 68.
Mizell, who lived in Midway, N.C., had sustained a heart attack last October, but the cause of death was not immediately determined. 
 Although he went on to serve three terms in Congress, Mizell had long been viewed as a rustic innocent.
By the time he made his debut with the St. Louis Cardinals in 1952, he had established himself in the tradition of Southern ballplayers known for small-town roots: pitchers Clyde (Pea Ridge) Day of Pea Ridge, Ark., and Bill Voiselle, who wore No. 96 for his hometown of Ninety-Six, S.C.
Mizell was born and reared in Leakesville, Miss., but gained his sobriquet playing baseball in nearby Vinegar Bend, Ala., population 50.
His rural origins became the stuff of promotional fare.
When he pitched for the Winston-Salem, N.C., minor league team, he rode around the field one night on a mule and then sang country music over the public-address system. "I walked behind more mules than I walked batters -- and that's saying a lot," he said of his farm-boy days.
While he was pitching for Houston of the Texas League in 1951, management staged a Vinegar Bend Night, flying in 32 people supposedly representing the town's entire adult population. Mizell later noted that Vinegar Bend was so small, some guests "must've come from the suburbs."
A 6-foot-3-inch, 205-pounder, Mizell was a power pitcher, striking out 319 batters in 414 innings during his first two major league seasons. But he was hampered by wildness and an inability to hold runners on base.
He made the National League All-Star team in 1959 when he was 13-10 with the Cardinals, then helped the Pirates win a World Series championship in 1960, going 13-5 after being traded by St. Louis in May. Mizell was sent to the expansion Mets in 1962, and after going 0-2 with them, retired with a career record of 90-88 and an earned run average of 3.85.
Dick Groat, the Pirate shortstop, would recall how "as a ballplayer he wasn't political -- players didn't really talk politics." Billy Johnson, a Cardinal third baseman, once remarked how Mizell "was a tall, good ol' country boy, so quiet that you would never know he would go on to become a politician."
But Mizell did just that. After working as an executive with Pepsi-Cola, he served on the Board of County Commissioners of Davidson County, N.C., in the mid-1960's, then was elected to Congress as a Republican in 1968 from a district centered in Winston-Salem. Serving three terms, he was a staunch defender of his home state's tobacco industry.
Mizell flashed his old form as a pitcher in the annual Congressional baseball game. He once struck out seven Democrats in a row, prompting the opposing manager to announce, "If this guy throws one more pitch, we walk off the field."
After he lost a bid for a fourth term, Mizell was named by President Gerald R. Ford as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development in March 1975. He served 14 months, then made an unsuccessful attempt to win back his House seat. President Ronald Reagan appointed Mizell in 1982 as Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Governmental and Public Affairs.
He is survived by his second wife, Ruth; two sons, David of High Point, N.C., and Curtis of Vinegar Bend; a brother, Danny of Midway, and four grandchildren. His first wife, Nancy, died earlier.
Political foes were not the only ones to discover Mizell was no rube.
Frank Lane, the Cardinals' general manager, once told of the time he called Mizell in to negotiate his 1956 contract.
"I was looking for a typical Ozark Ike type," Lane recalled. "Vinegar told me how he had turned most of his earnings over to his family to put them on their feet, how he had bought his brother a truck, and now that he was married and expecting his first child, he thought it was time to get something for himself. I never got a chance to open up my mouth again for the next half-hour. He signed for more than I had intended to give."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vinegar Bend Mizell as Cardinal in the 50's. He later served in Congress. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); NATIONAL LEAGUE ST LOUIS CARDINALS LP (63%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (57%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); NATIONAL LEAGUE ST LOUIS CARDINALS (57%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BASEBALL DEATHS & OBITUARIES (99%); BASEBALL (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (88%); POLITICS (83%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); COUNTRY MUSIC (73%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (72%); HORSES (71%); 

PERSON: MIZELL, WILMER (VINEGAR BEND); GOLDSTEIN, RICHARD; FORD, GERALD RUDOLPH JR; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



516 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
The Dow Jumps 212.73 Points as Shares Surge Broadly

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stocks soared yesterday as investors grew more confident that interest rates would remain steady and that Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, would not suggest otherwise during an appearance before the Senate Banking Committee today.
Additionally, merger activity remained strong, implying that dealmakers find attractive situations despite generally high stock prices. 
 Unlike many recent sessions that have been marked by big swings, all the major stock gauges marched steadily higher to finish the day with gains of more than 2 percent.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which rose 32.92 points, or 2.66 percent, to 1,272.14, stood within a hair of record territory. The Dow Jones industrial average, which had been stuck in a fairly narrow range for almost two months, was less than 1 percent from its high after a gain of 212.73 points, its biggest since Jan. 6, to 9,552.68, a rise of 2.28 percent. The Dow's record close was 9,643.32 on Jan. 8. And the Nasdaq composite index rose 58.41 points, or 2.56 percent, to 2,342.01.
Traders said they were encouraged by the resilience of most stocks to the recent steep slide in technology issues, which along with the drug and financial sectors were among yesterday's pacesetters. I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard made the biggest contributions to the Dow, accounting for nearly 50 points of its surge.
"There had been a concern that when the air came out of a high-flying sector like tech it would bring down everything else," said Michael Clark, head of United States stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston. "Well, the Nasdaq corrected and it didn't bring the rest of the market down. If you start to see breadth improve, then you could see the market move toward 10,000."
Japanese efforts to contain rising interest rates there seemed to be taking hold, some analysts said, suggesting less pressure for moving capital out of markets abroad.
"There's a sense that U.S. rates won't go higher," said John L. Manley Jr., senior equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney.
Mr. Greenspan, who is scheduled to make semiannual appearances before Congress this week to discuss the economy and the Fed's monetary intentions, is expected to indicate a steady policy on interest rates.
While American growth is rapid -- unnervingly so for some -- inflation remains tame and various foreign economies are thought too fragile to risk tightening credit here.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
Treasury Prices Rise
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bonds rose for the first time in three sessions, as yields neared a six-month high and falling rates in Japan increased the appeal of Treasury debt.
Yields of 30-year Treasuries reached 5.41 percent during the day, nearly the highest since August, while yields in Japan slid for a fifth trading session. That "certainly makes our yields more attractive," said Randy Bateman, who helps oversee $1 billion at Sun Trust Private Capital Group in Orlando, Fla.
Even so, by the close of the session, the 30-year Treasury bond rose 1 5/32, to 98 16/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.35 percent, from 5.38 percent.
Gains were limited by concern that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, might signal that the central bank is considering raising rates to cool the economy.
Mr. Greenspan "might indicate some slowdown is desirable," said Henry Willmore, an economist at Barclays Capital in New York. Yet "he'll emphasize that policy will probably be on hold for another three to six months."
Treasury yields climbed more than a quarter percentage point in the last three weeks as reports on employment, manufacturing and trade indicated growth. Bond investors are concerned about growth because it can lead to faster inflation, though there is no sign that is happening so far.
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.855	97.760	High Rate	4.53%	4.43%	Coupon Yield	4.64%	4.59%	Low Rate	4.42%	4.32%	Median Rate	4.52%	4.42%	Total applied for	$29,121,123	$28,139,975	Accepted	$11,425,783	$11,410,231	Noncompetitive	$1,281,735	$1,141,417	
 
Both issues are dated Feb. 25, 1999. The three-month bills mature on May 27, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on Aug. 26, 1999.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Feb. 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); M032040 TREASURY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: M032040 TREASURY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



517 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Biotechnology Treaty Stalls as U.S. and Developing Nations Quarrel

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: CARTAGENA, Colombia, Feb. 22

 BODY:
Negotiations to forge a global biotechnology safety treaty have hit a stalemate here over sharp disagreements between the United States and most developing countries, raising the prospect that the talks could fail.
The talks, which have been under way for more than a week, are to end on Tuesday, and it is not unusual in such negotiations for breakthroughs to occur at the 11th hour. 
 But several days of intense negotiations have failed to make much headway.
"The protocol is very ill and in the hospital," Rafe Pomerance, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Environment and Development, said today.
The Biosafety Protocol, as it is called, would regulate the shipment between countries of organisms that have been altered by genetic engineering. The talks are an outgrowth of the Convention on Biological Diversity reached at the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro.
The treaty is aimed at reducing the risk of harmful ecological effects from introducing genes from different species into plants, animals or microorganisms.
The biggest split is over whether agricultural commodities, like genetically altered wheat or soy beans, should be subject to the most important requirement of the protocol, which is that an exporter receive permission in advance from the importing nation.
The United States, worried that tens of billions of dollars in annual farm exports would get tied up in red tape or blocked completely, maintains that commodities meant to be eaten or processed should not be covered since they do not enter the environment. From 25 to 45 percent of major crops grown in the United States are now genetically modified.
But developing countries say commodities should be included because they contain seeds that can be planted or can accidentally escape into the environment. They also say there could be health risks from eating genetically modified food.
The European Union, where there is much more concern about genetically modified food than in the United States, also wants commodities included. The United States is allied with five other agricultural exporters -- Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile and Uruguay.
The latest draft of the treaty excludes agricultural commodities from the advanced approval requirements. But the developing nations want to include a provision that would allow individual countries, using the protocol, to require such advanced approval for commodities.
Developing nations are also unhappy that other things have been excluded from the protocol. The latest draft has an exemption for pharmaceuticals, and one aimed at organisms used in scientific research.
Another category exempted is products made from genetically altered organisms, which could include everything from corn flakes made from genetically engineered corn or blue jeans made from genetically modified cotton.
"We came here to negotiate a biosafety protocol," said Sateeaved Seebaluck, a delegate from Mauritius. "It would seem that trade has taken over and what we have is something more resembling a biotrade protocol."
While such exclusions are victories for the United States, there are other aspects of the draft that the United States and its allies and the food and biotechnology industries say would severely hamper exports and technology development.
The chairman of the working group drawing up the treaty rammed approval of the draft through today. But many of the members immediately condemned the process and the draft.
The draft now must be approved by the end of Tuesday by the parties to the 1992 biodiversity convention. But rough going is expected. The protocol must also be ratified by at least 50 nations to take effect.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (56%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION APCO ARGENTINA INC (52%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); CONVENTION ON BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY (56%); CONVENTION ON BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); CONVENTION ON BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY (56%); CONVENTION ON BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (56%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; GENETIC ENGINEERING; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LIVESTOCK; ENVIRONMENT BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); COMMODITIES TRADING (87%); FIBER MARKETS (87%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (87%); GRAIN MARKETS (87%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (75%); BIODIVERSITY (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (74%); SCIENCE FUNDING (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); CORN FARMING (72%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (72%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (67%); COTTON FARMING (67%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW JOHN MAJOR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



518 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
A Latin Bloc Asks U.S. and Europe to Ease Trade Barriers

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Feb. 22

 BODY:
With recession and the steep fall in the Brazilian currency straining their domestic industries, leaders of Mercosur, the Brazilian-led South American customs union, pledged today to coordinate their countries' economic policies and called upon Europe and the United States to lower trade barriers to agricultural imports from South America.
Opening the first meeting of the Mercosur-European Union Business Forum here on Sunday night, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso of Brazil said that Mercosur would not pull back from its goal of regional integration. As recessions are already under way or threatening in several Mercosur countries, the group seems to be turning its sights to outside markets, becoming more a trading bloc than the customs union it has been until now. In addition to Brazil, Mercosur includes Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay, with Chile and Bolivia as associate members -- nations in a region called the Southern Cone. 
 "One cannot expect an inexhaustible readiness on the part of developing countries to lower their industrial tariffs while barriers remain high" to the entry of our products, Mr. Cardoso told the gathering of European and South American executives. "This discrimination is unjust and must stop."
He spoke after meeting with his Mercosur partners here in what had been billed as the first talks between the heads of government since the Brazilian currency, the real, was devalued in January. But President Carlos Saul Menem of Argentina, citing a respiratory infection, did not appear, sending Foreign Minister Guido di Tella in his place.
The gathering of European and Latin American executives had been scheduled long before the Brazilian economy hit its deepest troubles, marked by a 60 percent slide in its currency, to 1.96 reais to the dollar from 1.22, and interest rates above 40 percent. But the difficulties that have hit the region full force since the New Year appeared to shape the meeting's agenda and atmosphere.
Brazil's travails have sent tremors through the trading group. Argentina is struggling to maintain the value of its peso, which is linked to the dollar, though its manufacturers fear that a flood of cheap Brazilian imports will cripple its industries. So far, two-party agreements have kept some Brazilian producers from inundating Argentina and other Mercosur nations. But such restraint has also increased the pressure to reach markets outside the region.
Miguel Jorge, a spokesman for Volkswagen do Brasil, said the company had reduced exports to Argentina, where auto production has already fallen 50 percent. But with 13 factories in Brazil struggling against falling domestic demand, he said, it will focus on larger markets in Mexico, Europe and the United States.
"Getting the Argentine market is not the fundamental question for Brazilian companies," said Mr. Jorge, who is also vice president of the Federation of Industries of Sao Paulo. "We have to gain other markets."
Mr. Cardoso said that from 1990 to 1996, European Union exports to Mercosur countries nearly quadrupled, to $23 billion from $6 billion, while Mercosur's sales to Europe rose only 25 percent, to $18 billion from $14.4 billion.
He said that technical and health barriers were increasingly hindering access to Europe and the United States for South American farm products. "In many of these requirements, a disguised protectionism can be perceived," Mr. Cardoso said. He also complained that industrial nations shower agribusinesses in their countries with more than $160 billion in subsidies, making it hard for developing countries to compete in international markets.
The United States bars some farm products from Brazil. Newcastle disease keeps out chickens, while foot-and-mouth disease has excluded fresh and frozen beef. Brazilian officials say they have wiped out hoof-and-mouth disease in three states, but the Department of Agriculture has not certified the states as free of the cattle disease, a United States Embassy spokesman said. Brazil exports frozen orange juice concentrate to the United States, paying a tariff around 8 cents a quart.
Antonio Donizetti Beraldo, chief of the foreign trade department at the Brazilian National Federation of Agriculture, said the European Union and the United States bought roughly 55 percent of Brazil's $20 billion a year in farm exports but that such trade could double if quotas were relaxed and domestic subsidies removed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VWA (AMS) (51%); VW (SWX) (51%); VOW (FRA) (51%); VOA (PAR) (51%); VKW (LSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); EUROPE (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOLIVIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); URUGUAY (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCOSUR (COMMON MARKET) VOLKSWAGEN AG (51%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERCOSUR (COMMON MARKET) SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; EUROPE; BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); EUROPE (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOLIVIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); URUGUAY (79%); CHILE (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); AGRICULTURE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); TRENDS (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); AGRICULTURE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE (PRES); SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN FERNANDO HENRIQUE CARDOSO (72%); CARLOS SAUL MENEM (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



519 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Russian Deal Limits Exports Of Cheap Steel

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration announced an agreement with Russia today to strictly control its surging exports of steel to the United States, an attempt to balance the bitter complaints of American steelmakers with efforts to keep from worsening Russia's economic slide.
Under the accord, Russia has agreed to roll back its sales of steel to the United States to the amount it shipped in 1996 and the first half of 1997, before a sharp fall in the value of the country's currency led to a surge of shipments here. Steel production accounts for 7 percent of Russia's gross national product, and is a huge source of scarce hard currency. 
 Secretary of Commerce William M. Daley, at a news conference today, said, "We are trying to respond to the steel industry's concerns without bringing Russia to its knees."
Nonetheless, the agreement left American steel producers and workers dissatisfied, and some in Congress are threatening to press legislation that would virtually cut off steel imports. Ten days ago, seeking to act ahead of Congress, the Commerce Department ruled that steel from Japan and Brazil had been dumped in the American market -- sold at prices well below the cost of production -- and announced that it would impose huge tariffs against imports of hot-rolled steel from both countries.
The department also concluded that Russian producers had dumped their steel, but penalties were not announced because negotiations over the agreement announced today were already under way.
Assessing Russia's share of the American steel market is not easy. By the end of last year, foreign manufacturers accounted for about 30 percent of all steel sold in the United States, up from about 20 percent the previous year. Russia accounted for about a third of all the hot-rolled steel that surged into the American market last year, but the Commerce Department says there are no reliable estimates of how much of the market it commanded for other products.
A comprehensive five-year accord of the kind struck with Russia would be illegal with Japan and Brazil, both of which are members of the World Trade Organization. The W.T.O.'s rules bar managed-trade agreements of the kind reached with Russia. But because Russia has yet to qualify for entry into the organization, Washington was free to go ahead with an accord, Mr. Daley said, conceding that "the agreement would be null and void" if Russia entered the trade grouping.
In this negotiation, Washington held most of the cards. Russia's alternative was the imposition of the kind of tariffs applied to Japan and Brazil -- so steep that they would essentially stop all shipments. Instead, Russian shipments will be reduced by about 70 percent.
Hot-rolled steel from Russia will come down to levels that existed before 1996. Sixteen other types of steel will be limited to 1997 levels.
"These agreements," Mr. Daley said today, "deliver on the Administration's commitment to respond vigorously to the surge in imports that has threatened the livelihoods of communities and workers around the nation." But they also respond to the concerns of Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin, who has been involved in the International Monetary Fund's negotiations over resuming aid to Russia, and of the National Security Council, which fears that a further economic breakdown in Moscow could further destabilize the Government of the ailing President Boris N. Yeltsin.
"There is a legitimate concern about taking Russia to its knees," Mr. Daley said today.
Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th, Democrat of West Virginia, complained that the agreement negotiated by the Commerce Department would still permit the importing of too much low-priced steel. And the Bethlehem Steel Corporation said that the industry might seek Federal court relief if the Administration carried out the Russian accord.
But the bigger threat to the Administration's plans is a bill now circulating in the House that would limit the amount of foreign steel permitted into the United States.
Today's deal is the kind of agreement that in other contexts the Administration has denounced as interference with market forces. For example, it sets an annual quota for hot-rolled steel -- 750,000 metric tons, or slightly more than 20 percent of the amount imported last year -- and fixes minimum prices for the steel. It also imposes a six-month moratorium on all imports of hot-rolled steel, to work down a glut on the market.
In return, the Commerce Department said it would not impose penalty tariffs on hot-rolled steel. Those could have ranged as high as 218 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); BRAZIL (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); BRAZIL (93%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SALES; CURRENCY; PRODUCTION; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DUMPING (TRADE TERM) IRON & STEEL MILLS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); TRENDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



520 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: A Science Truly Dismal at Prediction

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Want to get an embarrassed smile from any economist these days? Just ask about recent forecasts. If right about economic growth, the forecast was almost certainly wrong on interest rates. And if a forecast was right on inflation, it was undoubtedly wrong on economic growth.
Forecasting has never been easy, and economists have been off base more often than not. 
 But, still early in 1999, forecasters seem to be setting some kind of benchmark for inaccuracy. For the fourth consecutive year, economic seers have underestimated economic growth so markedly that the rush to revise predictions started almost as soon as the forecasts were made.
Why are forecasters so far off the mark? Although questions have been raised for years about the breakdown of traditional relationships in the economy -- such as that between low unemployment and higher inflation -- one reason stands above all others: many economists seem trapped in the model that their education and training drilled into them.
Certainly at this point, late in the economic upturn that began in early 1991, they have inclinations to look not just for higher inflation but for a slowdown as well. Sure, they may eventually get it right, but only in the sense that a stopped clock is right once in a while, too.
"Most of us have been trained to think that when unemployment gets down to this level, you will have inflationary pressures and the economy will slow," said Lyle E. Gramley, consulting economist to the Mortgage Bankers Association and a former Federal Reserve governor.
"If you start with a predisposition that the economy has to slow," he added, "you just have to look for what is going to make it slow down."
In underestimating growth and overstating inflation, economists appear to have made several errors. They played down the impact of technology. They have been baffled by consumer behavior, have struggled to explain the low savings rate and have been left agog at the buoyancy of the stock market.
And they have made what, in hindsight, seem simple misjudgments, such as overestimating the effect of a manufacturing slump and underestimating the positive effect of lower prices on consumer spending.
The ever-cautious chairman of the Fed, Alan Greenspan, has contributed to these misinterpretations himself. While Mr. Greenspan has long talked about how new technologies may be lifting the potential growth rate of the American economy, he has predicted slowdowns that have not materialized.
Official Fed forecasts, meanwhile, have repeatedly fallen short. Mr. Greenspan may well be asked about this when he appears before Congress today.
Take Mr. Greenspan's comment in September: "It is just not credible that the United States can remain an oasis of prosperity unaffected by a world that is experiencing greatly increased stress." No doubt that encouraged many other smart economists to overestimate the drag that the global financial crisis would have.
What is most striking is that most forecasters have still not figured out how to overcome their past mistakes. Economists, for example, remain far from reaching a conclusion on the question of whether the current blend of very strong growth with declining inflation is just a result of temporary factors, such as the plunge in oil prices and the strength of the dollar, or a reflection of more permanent changes.
"It shows you how at sea forecasters are," said James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at the Chase Manhattan Bank. He is one expert who has yet to revise upward his forecast of a weak 1999.
Maureen Allyn, chief economist at Scudder Kemper Investments, is more blunt: "I would urge people to pay very little attention to the forecasts they get." She has raised her growth forecast once this year.
From 1996 through 1998, the consensus forecast at the start of the year was on average, 1.4 percentage points below the actual annual growth rate, according to the Blue Chip Economic Indicators. And the consensus estimate for 1999 -- 2.4 percent as of January -- already appears too low.
One problem stems from how economists approach forecasting. They generally begin by estimating growth, linking the rest of the forecast to that. Stronger growth should mean higher inflation and higher interest rates, especially late in an economic cycle.
This relationship has its paradoxes. Those on Wall Street who predicted slow growth last year were dead wrong. But that led them to call for falling inflation and declining interest rates. Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, is one of those who turned out to be pretty close on those figures, which are more important on Wall Street than economic growth. "If I had forecast growth correctly," he acknowledged sheepishly, "I probably would have gotten those other things wrong."
Not that he's not trying again. On Feb. 1, Mr. Steinberg raised his growth forecast for 1999 to a 3.4 percent annual rate from a 2.6 percent prediction in mid-December.
Apart from the failure of traditional models, another factor in the frequent pessimism is an outgrowth of practicing the dismal science. "Economists do tend to be gloomy," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities.
Several errors have also managed to reinforce one another. While economists agree that an increase in consumers' wealth from rising stock prices will help lift spending, there is no agreement on how strong this so-called wealth effect is. The idea is that consumers will spend more when they feel good about their investments. But with the savings rate already at or near historic lows going into 1998, consumers were expected to become more conservative. Instead, they cut their savings rate even lower.
"There was no precedent for the speed or the depth of the slowdown in the savings rate," said John Lipsky, the chief economist at Chase Manhattan Bank.
The stock market's rebound in the fall also surprised most forecasters. "When you are in a marketplace where it is deeply held by the oldtimers that the stock market is going to roll over any minute, that deeply affects your thinking," said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. He has revised his forecast upward twice this year.
One forecaster, Gail D. Fosler, the chief economist at the Conference Board, has been more accurate than most economists in predicting economic growth. And this year she is much more upbeat than the consensus, having recently bumped her 1999 forecast up a notch, to 3.6 percent.
Such optimism can be a daring stance. "You don't lose your job if things turn out better than you forecast," she said. "But you can if they turn out worse."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (64%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



521 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1736 words

HEADLINE: A Town Searches Its Soul;
Attack on Mildly Retarded Man Stirs Anger and Sorrow

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER 

DATELINE: KEANSBURG, N.J., Feb. 21

 BODY:
Most nights they were just plain rowdy, drinking beer in the trash-strewn woods, moshing to hard-core music, or prying icons off grave sites in the local cemetery. But on other nights, when the mood came on, they turned vicious, their former friends said, picking fights with anyone who crossed their path, even scouring the town for victims.
Their body piercings, Gothic tattoos and listless attitudes set them apart from most people in this hard-working but dreary old resort town, where roofers and gas station attendants now live in the crumbling bungalows of the departed rich. In a place where the corporate towers of lower Manhattan can be seen from the rickety slats of the local boardwalk, it was as if, some residents said, they had the need to separate themselves from the suffocating small-town life around them. 
 But according to the authorities, the nine Monmouth County men and women accused of kidnapping and aggravated assault last week crossed the line between youthful mayhem and downright barbarism when they lured a mildly retarded 23-year-old man to an apartment here on the night before the Super Bowl, beat him with a curtain rod, extinguished cigarettes on his teeth and set his head on fire in three hours of torment and humiliation.
And, acquaintances and prosecutors say, it was not the first time the group had abused the man, who worked as a cook at a nearby McDonald's restaurant. Nor, they added, was this man the first victim the group had attacked.
"They're sadistic, evil-looking people, who basically went around getting laughs out of beating people up," said Tammy Meola, 26, a cashier who said she had scuffled with them in the past. "I mean, they're into black leather, long black trench coats and getting their heads shaved. They're seriously scary. I wouldn't want to meet them in an alley after dark."
That such an act could happen less than 100 yards from the old-fashioned storefronts of Main Street has shocked many residents here. Keansburg, they say, is a town of 11,200 people where women in hair curlers still wave to people passing by the beauty shop, a community of beach parties and Saturday afternoon Little League games.
But others have taken this event as a chance for earnest soul-searching. While they, too, have tried to defend the town's reputation, some wonder whether the bleakness and obscurity that hover over Keansburg like the fog from Raritan Bay could have contributed to the attack.
George Ortiz, the owner of a video store, said he feels sorry for the crowds of local youths he sees in his shop dressed in fishnet stockings and with pierced lips and black nail polish. There is so little for them to do, he said, that "they just spend time on the streets, getting tattoos and ruining themselves."
"They just need love," Mr. Ortiz said, "but the problem is they take it in the wrong place."
Indeed, for many young people here, the primary activities are renting movies, going to parties or drinking in the marshy woods down the Henry Hudson Trail. There is no movie theater, no library, not even a train station. But there are plenty of bars.
Fifty years ago, the town was a breezy summer haven for the urban well-to-do. But as interstates killed off the local highways, vacationers from New York began to visit the tonier towns of the Atlantic coast.
Even in recent years, the town has lagged behind. As the rest of nation clawed its way from recession in the mid-1990's, Keansburg's tiny real estate market bottomed out. Crime, drug use and domestic violence have remained constant problems here even as the Mayor and police officials in New York City, a tantalizing vision to the north, have trumpeted their safer streets.
And while officials have spent millions of dollars to refurbish the boardwalk and the water park, the town has never reclaimed its golden past. Even now, the waterfront borders a drab stretch of blighted houses and condemned buildings.
The town's former grandeur is visible only in glimpses -- in the once stately homes converted into beachfront honky-tonks and in the unremitting pride of its residents.
"This attack is not indicative of Keansburg," said Timothy O'Halloran, a member of the Town Council. "We're being maligned because it happened in our town, but it's not a reflection of who we are. Keansburg is made up of a lot of good, hard-working people who are raising their children the right way. We have great kids here doing a lot of great things."
But, law enforcement officials say, that description would hardly fit the nine people accused of assaulting and humiliating the young man or the half-dozen people who heard about it and arrived as spectators.
While only two defendants in the case, Brandon Cruz, 23, and Jennifer Dowell, 21, live in Keansburg, the entire group was a fixture in town where they moved in the nighttime world of bars and parties, often spilling onto the streets in a pack after dark to vandalize homes and storefronts or look for fights, said Mark Mitchell, a former friend of group members.
"They just had this mentality that they were the tough guys," Mr. Mitchell, 23, said. "They hung out in this tight-knit little group where if somebody messed with one of them, they'd all go after him."
The Keansburg Police Department has said that Mr. Cruz and Ms. Dowell, described as the group's ringleaders, have been in trouble with the law before. Deputy Chief James K. Pigott said Mr. Cruz had been convicted last year of criminal trespassing and failure to pay child support; Ms. Dowell was arrested in September on charges of assaulting two police officers during a traffic dispute and is scheduled for a hearing in that case this week.
The other defendants are David Allen Jr., 23, of Middletown; Michael Finlay, 37, of Hazlet; Jessica Fry, 22, of Red Bank; Christol Lavary, 18, of Atlantic Highlands; William MacKay, 22, of Atlantic Highlands; Marni Solomon, 22, of Middletown, and Daniel Vistad, 22, of Middletown.
Attempts to speak with them at their homes and by telephone were unsuccessful. Only two, Mr. Finlay and Mr. Vistad, have retained lawyers, and both lawyers refused to discuss the case.
Some members of the group apparently met several years ago when they attended Middletown North High School; they also met the victim there.
But most are years beyond the age at which such an attack could be explained as the work of disaffected teen-agers. Most of them hold jobs, rent apartments and ostensibly lead adult lives.
Ms. Dowell, for example, worked in the Middletown school district as a teacher's aide for special education students. Others worked at a nearby movie complex and supermarket, friends and acquaintances said.
In numerous interviews with people who knew them, members of the group were described as mired in a type of prolonged adolescence, fueled by alcohol, aimlessness and rage.
"The bottom line," said David Sorrentino, Mr. Mitchell's half-brother, "is that they never grew up."
Even now, a week after the nine were charged, the authorities are still trying to determine what if anything besides wanton cruelty prompted such an attack.
As John A. Kaye, the Monmouth County Prosecutor, described the incident, Mr. Finlay picked the victim up from work on Jan. 30 and lured him to the small second-floor apartment at 32A Hancock Street with the promise that a pretty woman there wanted to meet him. When the victim stepped inside, someone immediately put him in a choke hold. His McDonald's tie was cut from his neck and a small stuffed whale he carried was torn up in front of him. The assailants, Mr. Kaye said, threatened to do the same to him.
Over the next two hours, the Prosecutor said, the attackers whipped their victim with a homemade string of plastic beads. They bound him to a white plastic armchair and shaved his head and eyebrows with disposable razors and a pair of electric clippers. They put out cigarettes on his teeth and dropped the butts into his mouth. They made him lick a spilled drink off the floor. They dressed him in women's underwear and a green skirt and set his shaven head on fire with hair spray.
Then, Mr. Kaye said, the assailants pulled a pillowcase over the victim's head and marched him into a waiting van while threatening to burn his house down and kill his family if he ever spoke of the night's events. They drove him to a patch of muddy woods known as "the pit," where others from the neighborhood soon joined them.
There, a free-for-all ensued in which men and women slapped, beat, kicked and body-slammed the victim for an hour until he fled, running half-naked and bleeding through the woods, to a security post at a nearby industrial plant, where a guard called the police.
And, prosecutors say, this was not the first attack.
In mid-January, in an incident still under investigation, some of the same assailants beat the same man and forced him to wear a bra, Mr. Kaye said. He said he was also investigating reports that the victim was sexually abused.
Because of the severity of the second attack and because the victim is mentally handicapped, Mr. Kaye said his office was considering charging the nine defendants with bias crimes. Prosecutors are also considering sexual assault charges and have said that they may try to indict as many as five other people who they said stood by and did nothing as the second attack occurred.
In a letter to The Asbury Park Press published on Saturday, the victim, who said he had largely recovered from his injuries, thanked the Monmouth County Prosecutor's office and the local police for helping to bring his assailants to justice.
"I know it's been hard for everyone and I know I can't repay you," the letter read. "Just please let me say thank you."
Such words, however, did little to calm the anger on the streets of Keansburg, where several people openly discussed tracking down the nine defendants to give them a sound beating.
But if some in town were furious, others were simply saddened. In her boyfriend's house, Ms. Meola, the cashier, said she wanted to put the episode to rest.
"Keansburg is already considered Sleazeburg," she said. "Every time you turn around, there's another fight or an act of vandalism, and it just brings the town down more."
"These people are probably going to jail for a long time," she added as she put her apron on for work. "And that's where it ought to end."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Keansburg, N.J., has been unable to recapture the grandeur it once had as a seaside resort of stately homes. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); (Zvi Lowenthal/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Christol Lavary; Marni Solomon; David Allen Jr.; Brandon Cruz; William MacKay; Daniel Vistad; Jennifer Dowell; Jessica Fry; Michael Finlay (pg. B5)
 
Map of New Jersey showing the location of Keansburg. In Keansburg, a frayed town confronts an ugly crime. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (54%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KEANSBURG (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING; TORTURE; MENTAL RETARDATION CEMETERIES (90%); MENTAL RETARDATION (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); GAS STATIONS (70%); RESTAURANTS (64%); RETAILERS (61%); YOUTH SPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: FEUER, ALAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



522 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Rendezvous in Lahore

 BODY:
The city of Lahore, in the fertile plains of Punjab, lies along the route of countless ancient military invasions of the Asian Subcontinent. It was a fitting place for Prime Ministers Atal Behari Vajpayee of India and Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan to pledge a new effort over the weekend to defuse the tensions that led both to test nuclear weapons last year. Some stirring atmospherics surrounded the renewed dedication by the rival nations to resolve their differences peacefully. But many additional steps will be necessary to reduce the catastrophic potential of a nuclear conflict in this unstable region.
It took courage for Mr. Vajpayee and Mr. Sharif to meet and redouble their negotiating efforts while both are under fire from extremists at home. Mr. Vajpayee's decision to travel by bus across the border and pay the first visit to Pakistan by an Indian Prime Minister in 10 years was a rebuke to Hindu nationalists in his own ruling coalition who believe that Pakistan has fomented the Muslim rebellion in the Indian state of Kashmir. Mr. Sharif, for his part, had to mobilize the police to put down anti-India rioters during the visit. To translate the cordial expressions of Lahore into achievements, both countries must now work hard to sign a comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty, which they pledged to do last fall. 
 The discussions in Lahore led to a vague promise of sharing information to prevent an accidental launch of nuclear weapons. The goal has been talked about for years and now has obvious new urgency. But both countries need to go further and reach agreement to stop production of weapons-grade nuclear material, prevent the export of nuclear technology and halt the deployment of missiles that can deliver nuclear weapons. The United States, which imposed heavy sanctions on India and Pakistan after the nuclear tests, is right to wait for action on these steps before it lifts the sanctions. But Washington has also wisely let the World Bank proceed with some critical loans as a nudge to the dialogue that both countries are engaged in.
As India had wanted, both leaders pledged to discuss economic and humanitarian steps to improve relations. As Pakistan had insisted, both sides agreed to place the disputes over Kashmir, India's only Muslim-dominated state, high on the agenda of their talks. Two of the three wars between India and Pakistan have taken place there, and a large portion of both countries' armies are arrayed along the border. An estimated 30,000 civilians have been killed in the Muslim rebellion.
The Clinton Administration has played a constructive role in bringing two suspicious countries together. Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott has held eight meetings with the leaders of each country in the last eight months. But in the end, India and Pakistan must learn to talk about their problems without the prodding of intermediaries. It was thus especially encouraging that the meeting in Lahore was initiated by Mr. Vajpayee and Mr. Sharif themselves. Many Pakistanis are bound to be impressed that Mr. Vajpayee's trip included a visit to the historic site where Pakistan's founder, Mohammed Ali Jinnah, proclaimed his vision of a Muslim state in South Asia. If the spirit of Lahore can be translated into concrete steps, the way may be clear for the long-deferred visit later this year by President Clinton. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: INDIA (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (93%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (79%); 

CITY: LAHORE, PAKISTAN (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; INDIA; KASHMIR AND JAMMU (INDIA); INDIA (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KASHMIR (93%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (79%); LAHORE, PAKISTAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PAKISTAN; SUMMIT CONFERENCES NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ARMIES (78%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); RIOTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: VAJPAYEE, ATAL BEHARI (PRIME MIN); SHARIF, NAWAZ (PRIME MIN) NAWAZ SHARIF (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



523 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1856 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: First Asia, Now the World;
Hong Kong's No. 1 Bank Changes Focus, and Its Name

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Feb. 22

 BODY:
Peering down from the 28th floor of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank building, which resembles nothing so much as an urban oil rig, there is little doubt that one of the world's richest banks was built on a geyser of wealth from this former British colony.
But as the bank announced its 1998 earnings here today against the spectacular backdrop of Victoria Harbor, one could not help wondering: Whatever happened to the Hong Kong in the Hong Kong bank? 
 For the first time, the bank's London-based parent, HSBC Holdings P.L.C., reported its full-year earnings in United States dollars. HSBC executives said that they would seek a listing on the New York Stock Exchange later this year, in addition to the company's listings in London and Hong Kong.
And most symbolically, the executives laid out plans to market the company's far-flung holdings -- from the British Bank of the Middle East to Marine Midland in the United States -- as a single entity. That means, as the company announced late last year, that the names of those holdings, including the Hong Kong bank, will all be changed to HSBC.
In doing so, analysts said, HSBC is trying to fashion a global brand name to compete with Citibank in many world markets.
A streamlined, global HSBC is the product of a two-decade transformation from a local Hong Kong bank into one of the world's largest financial institutions and one that has proved remarkably resilient in the midst of Asia's economic typhoon.
"The group's strategy of diversifying our assets has clearly been undertaken so that we don't have too many eggs in one basket," Keith R. Whitson, the group chief executive of HSBC, said in an interview here. "I think the strategy has been vindicated by the events of the last 18 months."
If Hong Kong plays a lesser role in HSBC's public image these days, it may be because Asia has gone from being the motor that drives HSBC to a shuddering brake on the company.
Thanks to a huge increase in provisions for bad loans at the Hong Kong bank, HSBC's overall net income fell 21 percent, to $4.3 billion, in 1998. While profits rose two-tenths of 1 percent in Britain and 11.8 percent in the United States, they plummeted 46 percent in Hong Kong.
Five years ago, Hong Kong generated two-thirds of the pretax profits of HSBC Group. In 1998, it generated just 37 percent. Indeed, 1998 was the first year in HSBC's history that its Hong Kong and Asian operations contributed less to overall profits than its European operations: 38 percent versus 44 percent.
The results did not surprise analysts. They were, however, a sobering reminder that Asia's financial crisis is far from over. Although the bank said its markets in Indonesia and Thailand had bottomed out, it said it was still battling a rising tide of bad loans in Malaysia, Hong Kong, and, to a lesser extent, China.
"The Asian operations are the backbone of our group," Mr. Whitson said. "But I don't think anybody could have seen the dramatic devaluations and downturns that we've experienced in this region."
In the last century, to be sure, the bank has weathered wars, revolutions and financial crises in Asia. It had been the dominant banking power in the trading city of Shanghai before the Communists took control in 1949 and seized the bank's imposing office building for the local party headquarters.
And while the bank is currently playing down its Asian roots, some analysts predict that HSBC is poised to go on a shopping spree for distressed banks in the region. In its first such deal, HSBC said today that it would acquire control of South Korea's seventh-largest bank, Seoulbank, from the Korean Government for about $700 million.
Still, HSBC is clearly climbing out of the Asian trough and making itself a different company. By plunging into the American capital markets, HSBC is ready to stake its claim as a pre-eminent global bank.
But first it must remake its internal culture. Long a bastion of Britons from elite schools who presided over their Asian outposts almost like colonial governors, HSBC is now training specialists in growth areas like personal wealth planning and credit cards.
Although HSBC is still ruled by international officers -- a corps of 350 generalist bankers who can hop from Brunei to Buffalo with aplomb -- it has begun to recruit outsiders from Citibank and McKinsey & Company.
"It's an evolutionary process," said Roy Ramos, a banking analyst with Goldman, Sachs & Company in Hong Kong. "HSBC had a very inbred culture, and it worked. But they could use new blood."
Nothing underscores the bank's drive for a new image more than its decision to adopt the name HSBC worldwide. The company said it would spend $50 million, not including advertising, to stamp its name and hexagon logo on 5,500 offices in 79 countries and territories.
The strategy is an about-face for HSBC, which had brushed aside past suggestions to create a uniform brand. But executives now say the HSBC name will enable the bank to showcase its worldwide network and broad range of products. And that will persuade investors to place a higher value on its shares.
"We tend to let our results speak for themselves," said Christopher Langley, the executive director of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank. "This is partly because we haven't had one single unit that we can get behind and say, 'This is HSBC,' whether you're in Brazil, or whether you're in Malaysia, or whether you're in upstate New York. In this day and age, you've got to make a little noise."
Retiring the names of its units is risky, though. Some -- like Midland in Britain and Marine Midland in the United States -- have been around for more than 150 years, and have deep roots in their communities.
British newspapers have lamented the loss of the Midland name, which has hung from shingles in British towns since 1836. Though less venerable than its British sister, Marine Midland built a durable name as a consumer bank in upstate New York before HSBC acquired it in 1980.
"I don't think people in Watertown, N.Y., have the slightest idea what HSBC stands for," said James Conmy, a former executive at Marine Midland and a speechwriter for HSBC's retired chairman, Sir William Purves.
Analysts, however, praise HSBC for trying to fashion a global brand. In Hong Kong, where the switch might seem to be the most traumatic, many people already refer to the Hong Kong bank as HSBC. (The parent company moved its headquarters to London in 1992, five years before China took back the colony.) And the company's second major local bank here, Hang Seng Bank Ltd., will keep its name since it is not wholly owned by HSBC.
If anything, some analysts said, the change is overdue. "I think it's potentially a big help," said Judah Kraushaar, senior banking analyst with Merrill Lynch & Company in New York. "The notion of tapping into HSBC's brand identity and global attributes could really help Marine Midland."
Mr. Kraushaar said that under HSBC, Marine Midland had never broken out of its niche as a middle-market mortgage-lending bank. Similarly, Midland Bank in Britain has steered a steady but unremarkable course.
In Asia, removing Hong Kong from the Hong Kong bank may be politically astute move. When it was a British colony, Hong Kong was viewed as an international financial center. Since its return to China, though, Hong Kong is seen by other Asians as more of a Chinese city.
"People tend to have certain predispositions," said Eric Tai, the head of consumer banking at HSBC, who was recruited from Citibank. "When you talk about perfume, you think about France. When you talk about fashion, you think about Italy. When you talk about banking, you don't think about Hong Kong. You think about American banks, Swiss banks, and U.K. banks."
Despite its travails, Mr. Tai said HSBC was still determined to be a major force in consumer banking throughout Asia. It has opened branches from Korea to Bangladesh. But in keeping with its conservative style, it eschewed the aggressive consumer lending that has haunted rivals like Citibank and Standard Chartered.
In its agreement with the South Korean Government, HSBC will buy a 70 percent stake in Seoulbank, which has 292 branches and assets of $24.8 billion. In addition to its 30 percent stake, the Government will receive warrants equivalent to another 19 percent of the shares.
The Government has also agreed to put an unspecified amount of nonperforming loans in an asset management company. The bank also has the option of transferring still more bad loans into the company for one year after it takes over Seoulbank.
HSBC's successful bid for Seoulbank came after it lost an auction late last year for another Korean bank, Korea First. In this deal, HSBC exhibited flexibility and unexpected muscle as a deal maker.
"We initially thought the Korean Government would have more bargaining power after it sold the first bank," said Chunsoo Lim, a banking analyst with Goldman, Sachs & Company in Seoul. "But it didn't work out that way."
With a foothold in Korea, HSBC could turn next to Thailand. Both HSBC and Citibank, a unit of Citigroup, analysts say, are in the hunt for Bangkok Metropolitan Bank, a troubled bank that the Thai Government plans to auction to a foreign bidder.
HSBC's decision to sell its shares in New York has prompted speculation that the company may make a run at a major American bank. Wells Fargo is a frequently mentioned candidate. Owning United States shares, analysts said, would make it easier to finance such an acquistion, although they played down the possibility in the short term.
"Everybody is trying to match us up with somebody; it's amazing," Mr. Whitson said. "We're not about to go charging off just for the sake of making an acquisition or a merger. We're very focused on shareholder value."
But no amount of prudence has sheltered HSBC from the Asian crisis. In Hong Kong alone, the volume of loans classified as nonperforming jumped to $2.5 billion last year from $619 million in 1997. All told, HSBC took a $2.6 billion charge to cover bad or doubtful loans last year.
For all its woes, the Hong Kong bank still occupies a lofty perch in the commercial hierarchy. And its ties with Hong Kong sometimes bind. As the main issuer of currency in the territory, it acts as a quasi-central bank.
The Hong Kong government is also the bank's biggest shareholder, thanks to its intervention in the stock market last summer. When executives at HSBC first floated the idea of listing their stock in New York last year, officials here asked them to hold off to avoid eroding local confidence.
HSBC's sensitivities turn up in odd places. Recently, several economists left the bank after clashing with executives over their reports. One economist was forced out after he refused to endorse rosy projections for China's economy, according to two former executives.
"Let me say this," Mr. Whitson said in a response that could sum up HSBC's credo. "We are in 79 countries around the world. By definition, that means that we're a guest in 78. And we believe in behaving as guests should behave."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A 1937 photograph of the Bund, Shanghai's waterfront avenue and home to many banks, hotels and other businesses. (Philip D. Gendreau for The New York Times); Sir Thomas Sutherland, who wrote the prospectus to found the bank. The rebuilt headquarters in Hong Kong, 1935. A five toman note of the Imperial Bank of Persia early this century. Marine Midland Bank and the HSBC offices in New York. (Photos courtesy of HSBC Group archives); Keith Whitson, left, chief executive of HSBC, and Douglas Flint, Finance Director, in the atrium of the bank's gleaming Hong Kong base. (Agence France-Press)
 
Chart: "Shedding a Colonial Identity"
1865 -- The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank is established, with headquarters in Hong Kong and a branch in Shanghai, to meet the local banking needs of European traders.
1874 -- Handles the first public loan to China, an 8 percent loan to the city of Fuzhou.
1888 -- The bank is the first to be established in Thailand, where it starts issuing the country's banknotes.
 
WORLD WAR I -- After the disruption the war brought to international trade, the bank expands its Asian presence and takes an important role in stabilizing the Chinese currency.
WORLD WAR II -- Following the defeat of Japan and the outbreak of civil war in China, the bank is forced to close most of its mainland operations between 1949 and 1951. It plays a key role in the reconstruction of the post-war Hong Kong economy.
 
1953 -- In its first major diversification, the bank opens a division in California.
1959 -- The bank acquires two major Mideast banks dating from the era of British imperial rule, beginning the operation of the bank as a group.
1965 -- The bank buys a controlling interest in Hang Seng bank, the second largest in Hong Kong.
1972 -- The bank forms a subsidiary to offer investment banking services.
1991 -- The parent company incorporates in London, creating HSBC Holdings.
1992 -- The parent company acquires the Midland Bank, creating one of the world's largest financial services companies.
1999 -- HSBC will unify all of its different names under one umbrella.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (96%); HSB (PAR) (96%); HBC (NYSE) (96%); 0005 (HKSE) (96%); BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); FRANCE (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC; HONGKONG & SHANGHAI BANKING CORP; BRITISH BANK; MARINE MIDLAND BANK; CITIGROUP INC HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (96%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC; HONGKONG & SHANGHAI BANKING CORP; BRITISH BANK; MARINE MIDLAND BANK; CITIGROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); FRANCE (79%); THAILAND (79%); EAST CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL; COMPANY REPORTS HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); WORLD WAR I (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; WHITSON, KEITH; FLINT, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



524 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Former California Governor Rules Out a Run for President

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 22

 BODY:
Ending months of speculation about his political future, former Gov. Pete Wilson of California announced today that he would not seek the Republican Presidential nomination next year because he had concluded that he could not raise the $15 million to $20 million it would take to wage a credible campaign.
"Reluctantly, I'm compelled to conclude that it is just not practical to pursue a candidacy," Mr. Wilson wrote in a four-page letter to supporters released today, adding, "I won't pretend that I don't feel genuine disappointment." 
 Mr. Wilson, 65, was forced from office by term limits last month, and he had said he would spend several weeks telephoning potential fund-raisers and supporters around the nation to assess his Presidential prospects. But one former aide said today that, in the end, Mr. Wilson had made hardly any calls and concluded on his own that he simply could not raise enough money to compete with the likes of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas and the magazine publisher Steve Forbes.
Mr. Wilson faced formidable obstacles, including lingering bad blood among some California Republicans who thought he hurt the party with his outspoken stands against illegal immigration and affirmative action. Last month, a majority of California State Assembly's Republican caucus wrote a letter to Governor Bush, asking him to run.
"I've waited too long," Mr. Wilson told George Skelton, a political columnist for The Los Angeles Times, who first published news of Mr. Wilson's decision in today's editions. Mr. Wilson said he had spent the last two years consolidating his efforts as Governor in the face of the state's economic rebound, "because it's what I wanted to do," and added: "If you're going to govern California it's a full-time job. But now it's too late to raise that kind of money."
Mr. Wilson flirted with the Presidency four years ago, but his campaign collapsed for lack of money and support after throat surgery left him unable to speak for three months. By starting that campaign, he broke the pledge he made in his 1994 re-election not to seek the White House, and supporters said today that his current prospects had been badly hurt by that aborted effort.
"There's no question," said Dan Schnur, a former senior aide. "If he had not run in 1995, he'd be viewed now not just as a candidate but as one of the party's strongest. That's the kind of toll a campaign like that can take."
Mr. Schnur said some people wanted Mr. Wilson to give the race another shot.
"There was a strong argument," he said, "to running a $5 million to $7 million live-off-the-land kind of campaign, hope you finish first in Iowa and New Hampshire and then blow that into California and New York." But in the end, Mr. Schnur said, "he just decided he was better positioned to influence the debate at both the state and national levels as an elder statesman than as one of a pack of candidates hoping to break through."
Mr. Wilson has formed a nonprofit group, the Bear Flag Forum, to work on behalf of issues he supports, he plans to take part in a political action committee to support Republican candidates and he has accepted a post as a visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. He also plans to write a book.
Mr. Wilson's spokesman, Sean Walsh, said the former Governor was visiting his father in Ohio today and would not be available for interviews.
In his letter to supporters, Mr. Wilson said: "Don't expect me to go quietly into the night. I'm not going to."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pete Wilson says he cannot raise enough money for a campaign. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WRITERS (76%); TERM LIMITS (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); PUBLISHING (72%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (67%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (53%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (51%); IMMIGRATION (51%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; WILSON, PETE GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



525 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stocks Soar as Investors See Steady Interest Rates
Stocks soared as investors grew more confident that interest rates would remain steady and that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, would suggest nothing to the contrary when he appears before the Senate Banking Committee today.
Another factor was that merger activity remains strong, with deal makers continuing to find attractive situations despite generally high stock prices. Page C10. 

Trade Group Seeks Lower Barriers
Leaders of Mercosur, the South American customs union, pledged to coordinate their countries' economic policies and called on Europe and the United States to lower trade barriers to agricultural exports from South America. Opening a meeting, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso of Brazil said that Mercosur would not pull back from its goal of regional integration. C4.
 
Goldman Studying On-Line Strategy
Goldman, Sachs is studying ways to become a retail broker using the Internet. One way would be to form a joint venture with an on-line brokerage firm. Another would be to create its own on-line offering. Market Place. C9.
 
Talks Stall Over Biotechnology Pact
Negotiations to forge a global biotechnology safety treaty have hit a stalemate over sharp disagreements between the United States and most developing countries, raising the prospect that the talks could fail. A11.
 
Volvo Calls Off Scania Deal
Volvo of Sweden, Europe's second-largest truck maker, said it had broken off negotiations to buy its rival, Scania, raising speculation that it might set its sights on a United States target in its quest to increase its size and market share. C4.
 
A Bad Year for Forecasts
Early in 1999, forecasters seem to be setting some kind of benchmark for inaccuracy. For the fourth consecutive year, economic seers have underestimated growth so markedly that the rush to revise predictions started almost as soon as the forecasts were made. C5.
 
Dominion to Buy Gas Company
Dominion Resources said it would acquire the Consolidated Natural Gas in a stock transaction valued at $6.3 billion. C2.
 
Microsoft's Netscape Challenge
The Microsoft executive responsible for dealing with Netscape Communications testified that he did not regard Netscape as a competitor in June 1995. But the Government presented E-mail written at the time in which the witness himself and other Microsoft executives portrayed Netscape as a potentially dangerous rival. C2.
 
Deal by United Technologies
United Technologies announced plans to buy Sundstrand, a maker of internal systems for airplanes. The $4 billion deal would enable United Technologies to provide airplane makers with a broader array of aeronautics wares. Shares of United Technologies rose $1.0625, to $126.50. The deal continues a consolidation wave sweeping the industry. C6.
 
Dollar Falls Against the Yen
The dollar fell for the first time in six days against the Japanese yen to 121.10, from 121.35 on Friday and after climbing as high as 122.53 yen in Asian trading. C10.
 
Help for Minority Ad Agencies
The Clinton Administration is pressing Madison Avenue to voluntarily adopt a code to insure that media outlets and agencies owned by members of minority groups get what is deemed their fair share of consideration when advertising dollars are spent -- or run the risk of Federal scrutiny. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C8.
 
Securitas to Buy Pinkerton's
Pinkerton's, the detective and security company that has struggled to keep up as the security problems of its big multinational clients have become global, agreed to be acquired by Securitas of Sweden for $384 million. C6.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,552.68 up 212.73
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.35% down 0.03
The Dollar -- 120.91 yen down 0.24
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows United Technologies share price since Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); SCV.B (STO) (55%); SCV.A (STO) (55%); D (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); UTX (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); SCANIA AB (55%); CONSOLIDATED NATURAL GAS CO (53%); DOMINION RESOURCES INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (51%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (83%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (83%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); MERGERS (79%); ONLINE TRADING (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (75%); SECURITIES BROKERS (75%); MARKET SHARE (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (55%); AGRICULTURE (55%); JOINT VENTURES (53%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



526 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: With Black Support, Daley Seems Sure of Re-election

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 22

 BODY:
In a remarkable turnabout from the bitter racial divisions here a decade ago, Mayor Richard M. Daley appears poised to win a landslide re-election victory on Tuesday with a big share of the black vote.
Mr. Daley, who took office in 1989 after the most racially polarized vote in the city's history, is winning the support of more black voters than his black challenger, Representative Bobby Rush, according to polls. Those polls indicate that Mr. Daley, a Democrat like Mr. Rush, could win 70 percent of the total vote in the general election. 
 "He's worked assiduously to court the black community," said Don Rose, a liberal political consultant here who has worked against Mr. Daley in earlier campaigns. "And he's done a lot of it with classic Chicago political wiles -- deals, jobs. He's made terrific allies."
In winning black support, Mr. Daley has found a strategy that has eluded many other big-city leaders, including Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, whose strained relations with blacks have worsened with the recent police shooting death of an unarmed West African immigrant.
Mr. Daley, in his first successful bid for mayor, won less than 7 percent of the black vote. At the time, many black political leaders branded him a racist, an accusation that stemmed in part from bitterness toward his father, the late Richard J. Daley, longtime Mayor and legendary boss of Chicago's fabled Democratic machine.
In that 1989 election, one prominent black clergymen vilified Mr. Daley as "Pharaoh's son," and many other black political leaders warned that City Hall, which had been opened to minorities by Harold Washington, the city's first black Mayor, would revert to a traditional domination by white men, usually with Irish surnames. (The elder Daley's press secretary, Frank Sullivan, once recalled that his boss's "idea of affirmative action was nine Irishmen and a Swede.")
But Mr. Daley was smarter than that. He started with a base of support among the white working class in the so-called Bungalow Belt on the Southwest and Northwest Sides, a group that was unlikely to bolt for any black candidate. To broaden his reach, Mr. Daley has worked from the start to cultivate support among blacks, white liberals, Hispanic voters and homosexuals.
Mr. Daley has appointed blacks in key positions, steered multimillion-dollar developments to black neighborhoods and cleaned up dilapidated sections that had long been neglected. He has pushed for hiring programs to enhance racial diversity in the police and fire departments.
Mr. Daley forcefully denounced racism and police brutality after the beating of a young black man in 1997, angering many police officers, who contended that the man had started the violent altercation. The Mayor has also won praise for improvements in the public schools, where the student body is mostly black.
Mr. Daley is also riding the crest of the economic boom that has lifted cities across the country, including Chicago, out of their financial doldrums. New houses and condominium projects have sprouted from glass-strewn parking lots all over the city, including spruced-up neighborhoods on the South Side that have become fashionable among prosperous black professionals. A study by the Woodstock Institute, a nonprofit research group here, found that home buying among blacks from 1990 to 1996 grew at a rate of more than 125 percent.
"We have a growing black middle class in Chicago, and they approve of what Daley is doing," said Paul Green, an author of books on Illinois politics. "Property values are property values. People with investments want stability."
Corruption among some City Council members, including a close ally of Mr. Daley who was charged with trading influence for a favorable loan, has not seriously hurt the Mayor among voters long accustomed to politicians of negotiable virtue. And none of the charges of wrongdoing have reached the mayor's office.
According to a poll published Sunday in The Chicago Tribune, Mr. Daley was garnering the support of 65 percent of likely voters in his bid for another four-year term, compared with 13 percent for Mr. Rush, with 20 percent undecided. Among black voters, the poll showed Mr. Daley leading Mr. Rush 33 percent to 28 percent, with the remainder undecided. Three-quarters of the voters held a favorable opinion of Mr. Daley, while only 9 percent viewed the Mayor unfavorably. The poll has a potential margin of error of four percentage points.
Blacks account for about 42 percent of Chicago's population, with whites making up about 38 percent and Hispanic voters about 20 percent. Chicago has elected just one black Mayor, Mr. Washington, a bearish man with a charisma that set a standard black mayoral hopefuls have found difficult to approach.
In his long-shot campaign, Mr. Rush, who was a member of the Black Panthers in the 1960's, has been unable to muster financial resources, with most black business interests supporting Mr. Daley's fourth run for mayor.
And with the Mayor refusing to debate him, Mr. Rush has run a shoe-string campaign and sometimes has tried to win notice by making strong statements, sentiments that have sometimes had a tone of stridency and desperation. He called the highly praised head of the city school system, Paul Vallas, a "the P. T. Barnum of education" and vowed to dismiss him if elected.
Mr. Daley has picked up endorsements from The Chicago Defender, the city's largest black newspaper, and from some blacks on the City Council. One of his chief critics when he entered office 10 years ago, Alderwoman Dorothy Tillman, a woman once known for fiery condemnations of "plantation politics," is now viewed as something of an ally of the Mayor.
Mr. Daley's father, who died in 1976, owed more than one early election to black support. At his peak, the elder Mr. Daley racked up about 90 percent of the black vote. But he became estranged from the civil rights and anti-war movements in the late 1960's and early 70's. During his last primary election in 1975, he carried less than half the black vote.
By some measures, the son has Chicago sewn up even tighter than his father ever did. About one-third of the 50 Chicago aldermen were originally appointed by the younger Mr. Daley, people who can be expected to remain steadfastly loyal even after winning election on their own right. Vociferous critics of Mr. Daley on the City Council can be counted on one hand, with a few fingers to spare.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Richard M. Daley with a teacher, Sandra A. Pyle, after he told her she would receive an award at Paideia Community Acadamy yesterday. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BLACKS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PUBLIC OPINION VOTERS & VOTING (93%); RACE & RACISM (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CITIES (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (88%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); MEN (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); SHOOTINGS (66%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); APPOINTMENTS (63%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; DALEY, RICHARD M (MAYOR); RUSH, BOBBY (REPR) BOBBY L RUSH (88%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



527 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: CITING SECURITY, U.S. SPURNS CHINA ON SATELLITE DEAL

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22

 BODY:
Swayed by criticisms that commercial satellite deals with China could threaten national security, the Clinton Administration decided today to reject the sale of a $450 million satellite to a business group with close ties to the Chinese Government, senior officials here said.
The decision casts considerable doubt on the future of satellite sales to the Chinese. 
 The Administration's decision reverses a policy in effect for several years of promoting commercial satellite deals with China. The United States championed the transactions to help American business and exports and to aid China to make technological advances.
But in the last several months, the Administration has faced investigations and official reports that have called the commercial satellite sales and associated expertise a threat to American security and a boon to China's military. The findings have indicated that the program of satellite sales may have given the Chinese the scientific expertise to improve their missile-launching capacity.
The rejected deal is likely to be another sensitive issue for Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright next week when she visits China. With Chinese-American relations eroding over other issues like human rights and trade, Beijing could interpret the United States' decision as a fundamental retreat from its commitment to expanded economic relations. At the moment, though, no further sales are pending.
The deal involves a Hughes Space and Communications satellite designed to set up a mobile telephone network over much of Asia, reaching from China to Indonesia, and then across the Indian Ocean as far as Pakistan.
The Commerce Department is expected to notify Hughes formally of its "intent to deny" in the next few days, officials said.
The decision came after the Defense and State Departments objected to allowing China to launch the satellite.
The Commerce Department favored the sale, but the State and Defense Departments overruled it, concluding that the technology to place the satellite in orbit would help the Chinese military make its intercontinental ballistic missile fleet more accurate.
Some experts also feared that the Chinese military would benefit, both commercially and technologically, by controlling the satellite once it was in orbit.
The company issued a statement tonight that made no reference to a decision, but reiterated that the satellite deal "can be used as a model for how we can protect national security while launching satellites overseas."
The decision effectively revokes President Clinton's quiet approval of the sale two and a half years ago. At the time, aides assured him that it would not contribute to Chinese military capacities. State and Defense concurred with the decision, but had not thoroughly studied the military links of the Singapore-based business group that was the official buyer of the satellite. Top officials of the consortium included senior Chinese military officers, who also served in posts with the China Satellite Launch and Tracking Control Corporation.
Hughes officials had sought an expedited review, and pressed the Administration to approve the deal, according to Government documents provided later to Congressional investigators. A change in the satellite's design forced the company to apply for a revised license, and a raft of subsequent investigations into China's efforts to obtain American technology helped prompt the Administration to reverse its position.
The decision comes as relations between the United States and China erode on many fronts, from human rights to economic interchanges. A senior Administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said today that "we are heading into a very rough patch," and speculated that the decision could make it "very difficult" to approve other satellite sales to China in the near future.
The official also speculated that the Chinese would most likely move quickly to obtain a similar satellite from Europe, in part to drive home their ability to circumvent American restrictions and reward non-American competitors. However, it appears unlikely that China could acquire technology as sophisticated as that offered by Hughes.
Secretary of State Albright is scheduled to visit Beijing next week in connection with a visit to Washington in April by China's Prime Minister, Zhu Rongji. Mr. Zhu is widely regarded as China's economic czar, and Administration officials believed until recently that his visit would be preceded by intense negotiations to secure China's entry into the World Trade Organization, which Beijing and Washington have long sought.
But with China's economy slowing, and unemployment unrest around the country, Mr. Zhu appears less eager to strike a deal that would require him to open China's markets rapidly.
The cancellation of the satellite deal could diminish the chances of any broad trade agreement, which would ultimately require the approval of Congress. Administration officials say that in the current atmosphere, that would be difficult.
The prospects for the satellite deal had been diminishing for months. This morning The Financial Times of London reported that the plan was close to being rejected. By later today the Commerce Department had received the last of the votes from four other agencies with a voice in the deal, and concluded that it had been overruled.
Hughes Electronics or the Commerce Department could theoretically ask for a reconsideration of the denial of the four export licenses involved in the deal, but Administration officials said that as a practical matter they thought it unlikely that any reconsideration would change the outcome. At a high-level interagency meeting on Feb. 11, the Pentagon said it was troubled by the involvement of the Chinese military in the regional satellite system, called Asia-Pacific Mobile Telecommunications, an official said.
The State Department's concerns at the meeting included Hughes's dealings in recent years with China, the official added. One troubling episode, now the subject of a criminal inquiry, involved a 1995 tutorial on rocket launches given by Hughes engineers to Chinese scientists. Another involved the company's hiring of the son of the Chinese general who oversees his country's military satellite programs, officials said.
The recent findings of a House panel also figured in the decision to deny the Hughes deal, officials said. The panel criticized Hughes's dealings with China and recommended that the Administration strengthen export controls. The United States supports most committee findings.
The license for the satellite deal was handled by the Commerce Department, which must consult and win the consent of other Government departments involved in satellite exports. Next month, as a result of legislation passed by Congress last year and opposed -- but signed -- by President Clinton, the State Deparment will once again take the lead. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: HUGHES SPACE AND COMMUNICATIONS HUGHES SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS CO (54%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUGHES SPACE AND COMMUNICATIONS CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; SATELLITES; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET SATELLITE INDUSTRY (96%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (50%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) BILL CLINTON (62%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



528 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: Welfare's 'Job Centers' Bring High Hopes and Thin Results

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

 BODY:
The homeless man fidgets nervously in the welfare office, gnawing his fingernails and rattling off the highlights of his recent resume. "Doing time, doing drugs and dealing drugs," concedes Ernest Little, 38, who has come here to regain a little respectability.
The grandmother rolls her eyes and recounts six months of a draining, disheartening and ego-crushing job search. "All I got now are bills I can't pay," sighs Bernett Dews, 46, who has been off and on welfare for five years, and needs help again. 
 The father of four, on the other hand, wears confidence as comfortably as his pressed gray slacks and polished black shoes. But shame haunts the eyes behind the wire-rimmed glasses. For the first time in his life, he has lost his job and exhausted his savings. "I'm not used to this," Cleveland Wilks, 46, says quietly. "But I need the help."
For all three people, and many like them, hope lies in a dingy brick building in downtown Brooklyn where Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has radically reshaped the relationship between government and the poor. Here at 210 Livingston Street -- and in 12 other welfare offices across the city -- workers urge the needy to rely on relatives, food pantries and jobs, and require most applicants to spend eight hours a day, five days a week hunting for work while their welfare applications are processed.
The policy has touched off criticism from Federal officials and advocates for the poor, who have assailed the city for improperly denying applications and assistance to the needy. But on this damp February morning, as struggling New Yorkers walked past swirls of black graffiti and through the welfare office's smudged glass doors, many who had come seeking assistance embraced the message of self-reliance that they heard inside.
"It was new to me, but I think it's a very good idea," said Mr. Little, an ex-convict who was told that he would have to seek drug treatment and work before he could get a welfare check.
"Me, I'm hoping for a stable life style and a relationship with my son," said Mr. Little, who sleeps in a shelter but dreams of finding a job, a room and his 17-year-old boy, who is in prison somewhere upstate.
"To try, you know, to be a role model," he said shyly. "You know, to change."
But their enthusiasm for life free from the stigma of public charity was tempered with skepticism about the city's ability to help them find work.
While the reconfigured welfare offices known as "job centers" now teach resume writing and interviewing skills, only 256 -- or less than 5 percent -- of the first 5,300 job search participants have found work. Those who fail to find work remain eligible for welfare and, if approved, must work for the city in exchange for their checks. Those jobs, known as workfare jobs, typically involve cleaning parks and buildings or light office work.
But fewer and fewer people are deemed eligible for public assistance. While 55 percent of welfare applications were approved under the old system, only 25 percent of those who initially apply at the job centers clear all the city's hurdles and are finally approved for benefits. City officials say many people now choose to get by on their own, without jobs and without welfare. But some applicants suspect that the new system, with its rigorous job search requirements and emphasis on alternatives to welfare, is simply designed to discourage the poor from completing the application process.
The voices of those crowded into the third-floor waiting room of the office now known as the Linden Job Center reflected both optimism and anxiety about the prospects for finding work.
Lizette Aguirre, a recently released ex-convict who wants to work as a janitor, bubbled with confidence after her welfare worker told her the city would help her find a job.
"I'm 30 years old; I still have the energy; I don't need welfare," she said, with hope gleaming in her brown eyes. "Someone's bound to hire me, right?"
But Mr. Wilks, the father of four, felt his heart sink as his caseworker conceded that virtually none of the welfare applicants find jobs and few get welfare either. As he looked at the expectant faces in the waiting room, he envisioned a crowd huddled on a subway platform, waiting for a train that would never come.
"All this big noise about helping you find jobs, it's bull," said Mr. Wilks, a Jamaican immigrant who worked as a security guard and shuttle bus driver at a hospital for 10 years before he hurt his back and got laid off several months ago. "They don't get nobody no jobs. Where will that leave me?
"I have 14 years in this country, and this is the first January catch me not working," said Mr. Wilks, who said he applied for welfare after the electric company threatened to cut off power to his apartment. "I been watching after my family for 30 years. I want to work. I want to go back to what I was. But can they really help me do that?"
Mr. Giuliani's social experiment is rapidly unfolding in city offices like this one, where fluorescent lights hum, fussy babies wail and struggling New Yorkers like Mr. Wilks present their unpaid bills and personal crises. Neither the new job centers nor the traditional welfare offices can promise an ideal situation. But for the first time, city officials say, the job centers emphasize the value of work and self-reliance and offer the poor the job-hunting tools to get back on track.
The Giuliani administration had hoped to convert all 30 welfare offices into job centers by spring. But in January, a Federal judge temporarily blocked that expansion, ruling that job center practices "continue to endanger numerous individuals in need of public assistance." That same month, the United States Department of Agriculture, which regulates food stamps, found the city had violated the law by denying applications to the poor.
Some city workers had sent the hungry to food pantries rather than considering them for emergency food stamps. Others refused to accept the applications of immigrants, teen-agers or women who showed up without husbands. Others arbitrarily rejected anyone who pushed through the doors after 11 A.M. City officials have promised to retrain workers, revise applications and post signs clearly outlining the public's rights to Government benefits.
But few welfare applicants settling in at the Linden Job Center knew about the city's recent problems. And few had even heard about the new emphasis on alternatives to welfare -- until a disembodied voice broadcast the startling message across the waiting room.
"Welcome to the Linden Job Center," the voice boomed across the office loudspeaker. "Welfare is now temporary. It is no longer permanent. Our goal is to make you independent and self-sufficient."
George Ortiz, 41, a recovering heroin addict, nodded with approval. Obdulio Aguilar, 29, a Mexican immigrant who lost his job after hurting his back while repairing a roof, said he was eager to work, too, and hoped to get Medicaid to pay his doctor's bills. Even so, ripples of resistance began flowing through the room.
One 57-year-old woman cheerfully confessed that she had lied to her welfare worker about her savings account. (She said she did not have one.) She said she wanted the city to pay her overdue bills so she would not have to deplete her own precious reserves as an alternative to welfare. "Why do they need to know all my business?" she asked, her eyes narrowing fiercely.
Two rows back, a wizened little man chortled as he lectured his buddies about the best strategy to avoid being assigned to a drug treatment program. "Never admit you drink or use drugs!" he said triumphantly, his boozy breath overpowering his sober audience.
And Ms. Dews, the grandmother who had spent six months job hunting, was grumbling openly about looking for work. Hadn't she already swept parks and streets as a workfare worker? Hadn't she already hawked her resume at job fairs? And what did she get from any of it?
She had been on and off public assistance for five years, and her typing skills had atrophied along with her confidence.
But her first visit to the job center paid off within a week. An instructor told a group of welfare applicants that a cosmetics company was looking for workers. Ms. Dews was interviewed and hired on the spot. Today, she assembles boxes for lipsticks and skin cream at $5.15 an hour.
Ms. Dews still grumbles about the commute (an hour from Brooklyn to Queens), the work schedule (from 4:30 P.M. to 12:30 A.M.) and the salary (minimum wage). But she is proud to pay her bills and dreams of saving to buy a computer for her grandchildren. "It's giving me peace of mind," she said.
She is, of course, a statistical anomaly. Unemployment in the city stands at 7.6 percent, compared with the national average of 4.3, and job centers have helped only the thinnest sliver of welfare applicants find work. But in those offices, there is at least a hint of possibility.
Genaro Sanchez, 48 and homeless, just got out of prison and struggles to speak English. He knows how hard it can be to find a job. But he cannot help but hope when he peers through the dusty windows of the Linden Job Center and imagines Brooklyn bustling below, the working women clip-clopping in their sturdy heels, the vendors hawking hot dogs and the shoppers ogling sweet perfumes through Macy's show windows.
"If you want to get out of the street, it's up to you to make the change," said Mr. Sanchez, who hopes the city's resume-writing classes will help him find a job as a cook or a waiter. "They help you make the first step."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Most of the welfare applicants at offices like the Linden Job Center in Brooklyn are supposed to spend eight hours a day looking for work. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: LINDEN JOB CENTER (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINDEN JOB CENTER (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; LABOR EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); CHARITIES (50%); 

PERSON: SWARNS, RACHEL L RUDY GIULIANI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



529 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 23, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
G.M. Ordered to Pay Benefits to Workers

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
An administrative judge for the New York State Department of Labor has ruled that General Motors Corporation must pay $3.8 million to 10,000 workers who were temporarily laid off at four New York factories, lawyers said yesterday.
A New York State administrative law judge ruled on Feb. 12 that G.M. wrongly reduced unemployment benefits paid to the workers when it classified part of a settlement package as back pay for the Fourth of July holiday, lawyers for the workers said. 
 G.M. did not return phone calls seeking comment.
The payments were received more than 30 days after the holiday, and under New York State law, therefore could not reduce unemployment insurance, the lawyers said.
The decision affects G.M. workers at plants in Lockport, Massena, Rochester and Tonawanda who were temporarily laid off last summer when G.M. closed the plants after strikes in Michigan caused parts shortages.
Similar cases affecting up to 100,000 other G.M. employees are pending before state agencies in Michigan, New Jersey, Kansas, Indiana and elsewhere, said Jordan Rossen, a lawyer for the New York workers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); LANSING, MI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS LAYOFFS (91%); LAWYERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (90%); JUDGES (90%); VERDICTS (88%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (88%); PLANT CLOSINGS (88%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (88%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); CLOSINGS (87%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999



530 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 7; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK;
California Prices Know One Way: Up

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial 

 BODY:
THIS was supposed to be the year that California wine prices, which have climbed steadily to what would have been unimaginable levels a decade ago, eased off. At worst, the increases were expected to slow down; at best, there might even be a few price cuts.
The phylloxera epidemic, which decimated the North Coast vineyards for a decade, had run its course. The old acreage was coming back and thousands of new acres had been planted. The talk in wine country was that winemakers would be filling swimming pools with their surplus. 
 But it never happened. True, at 2.9 million tons, 1997 had the biggest overall grape harvest ever in California. True, at 2.2 million, 1998 had the second biggest, but that was still a drop-off of 13 percent from 1997, and so there remains a serious shortage of wine. Good wine, that is.
"Americans are buying wine -- expensive wine -- like crazy," said Jon Fredrikson, president of Gomberg & Fredrikson, wine industry consultants in San Francisco. And as always, supply and demand set the price.
In Napa and Sonoma counties, the best-known American viticultural areas, the 1998 crop was down 30 percent from 1997. The important grapes suffered the most. Chardonnay was off 37 percent in Napa, 30 percent in Sonoma and 18 percent in Monterey. Merlot, current darling of the suburban set, was off 10 percent statewide.
So grape prices rose: they went up 11 percent over all in Napa last year and 10 percent in Sonoma. Prices for the top wine grapes there set records with the 1998 crop, according to Motto, Kryla & Fisher, a wine-business consulting firm in the Napa Valley.
Just as an example: Napa Valley cabernet sauvignon grapes sold for about $2,250 a ton in 1998, a 62 percent increase in just five years. During the same period, grape prices in Sonoma County rose 85 percent.
When it comes to ever higher prices, "the premium wine boom is the biggest factor," said Vic Motto, a partner in the consulting firm. He added, "The premium wine market has outstripped the growth in the general economy throughout the economic boom of the 1990's."
Mr. Fredrikson cited several factors for increased demand: important improvements in wine quality; the economic boom and particularly the relative affluence of the aging baby boomers; the widespread belief that wine contributes to a longer, healthier life, and less quantifiable, perhaps, a general celebratory attitude brought on by the approach of the millennium.
So what happened to the predicted wine glut?
"Shortages in the three vintages before 1997 and the continued boom in sales have been absorbing the 1997 vintage as soon as it hits the market," Mr. Motto said. "By the time the 1998 vintage is released, the 1997's will be long gone, along with consumer hopes for an oversupply of great wine at bargain prices."
Weather, of course, played a part, too. With many new vineyards beginning to produce in 1998, the potential for another record was there, but nature didn't cooperate. Last winter, El Nino rains delayed budding by as much as a month, then spring rains hampered flowering and pollination. A cool summer slowed ripening, and only a warm, dry October enabled growers to harvest a respectable grape crop.
Another principal factor in the shortage of premium California wines is the rapidly expanding export market. "Exports comprise the second-biggest market for California wines outside of the state of California itself," Mr. Fredrikson said. "Big retailers are screaming bloody murder. They want to know why, when they are unable to find hundreds of top California labels, the wine is being shipped abroad." The answer? Wineries, like so many other businesses, have their eyes on a potentially huge global market and want to protect their futures.
One segment of the market that is suffering now because of the large 1997 and 1998 crops in California is French bulk wine. During the phylloxera blight, millions of gallons were sent to California to be bottled and sold as moderately priced wine. Much of that ended in 1998. Overall imports were up only 1 percent, with French bulk wines showing a big drop-off. Mr. Fredrikson, for one, does not think that is necessarily bad. The French wines, many of which came from the Languedoc region, "got us over the hump, but they just don't deliver the flavor Americans prefer," he said, adding, "They are drier, more austere."
When it comes to wines that are bottled where they are grown, several countries are making inroads in the American market. Last year, Australia and New Zealand imports, together, were up 17 percent, to 3.2 million cases. Italian imports were more than four times that.
What does all this mean to the consumer? Collectors of California trophy wines, the $150 cult wines made in batches of 100 cases or less a year, will have to pay more over the next few years. For everyone else, the $6 bottle will probably go to $11, the $15 bottle to $25 -- you get the picture. But don't despair. With a little effort, terrific wines can still be found at reasonable prices. Just count on a lot of them being Italian.
 
Tastings
A Pinot Noir Shows Its Strength
 
Acacia Vineyard Pinot Noir 1995, Beckstoffer Vineyard, Carneros, Calif. About $40.
 ACACIA WINERY'S 1997 Carneros Pinot Noir, at $25, is a first-rate wine and not too difficult to find. But another pinot from Acacia, a bit older, is well worth hunting down: the 1995 from the Beckstoffer Vineyard.
In the 1980's, when pinot noir was becoming more than a curiosity in California, Acacia produced as many as six separate versions of the wine in a single year, each from a different vineyard. When the phylloxera blight hit, there was a serious retrenchment. Then, with the 1995 vintage, the Beckstoffer was offered for the first time.
Acacia claims that the pinot noir vines from Beckstoffer are among the oldest in the Carneros region, which cuts across the lower ends of both Sonoma County and the Napa Valley.
Full bodied is not a term that is often applied to a good pinot noir but it is certainly appropriate here. The Beckstoffer is a big and supple wine with deep color and plenty of fruit. In short, it is a formidable wine.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: GOOD CROP -- Prices for top wine grapes in California set records last year. Above, Navarro Vineyards in Philo. (Terrence McCarthy/Navarro Vineyards)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WINES BEVERAGE PRICES (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); WINE (91%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HORTICULTURE (78%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (78%); WINERIES (73%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J JON FREDRIKSON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



531 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: THE NEEDIEST CASES;
A Chance to Pursue a Career in the Healing Arts

BYLINE: By MARTIN STOLZ 

 BODY:
Desma Ross, who grew up to the sounds of calypso and steel bands on the island of Trinidad, is a shipwright's daughter. But she had always wanted to pursue another course: medicine.
Ms. Ross never abandoned her dream, though she postponed it when she had children. But for years she has continued to pursue it, and now, at 40, she is close to realizing it. 
 She made progress due to her raw determination, but she had help, too. The Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, one of the seven local charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, gave her cash when she needed it most.
Ms. Ross never envisioned an easy life for herself. In Trinidad, women face considerable obstacles and career restrictions, she said, because of sex stereotypes, limited educational opportunities and a weak economy. Nevertheless, medicine was unceasingly fascinating to her. It appealed to her desire to serve the sick.
When Ms. Ross became pregnant at 19, she settled down to family life. After a few years, she had four children, but her dream still drew her.
When her relationship with her children's father went sour, she took stock of her life. Unable to get a job in Trinidad and unable to improve the lives of her children, she decided to pursue her dream.
She moved to New York, where she said women were not chastised for having a career, and where she could find educational opportunities.
Leaving her home to join her sister in Flatbush, Brooklyn, in 1987 was the hardest thing she ever did, she said. Her four children, including one infant, stayed in Trinidad with their father and another of Ms. Ross's sisters.
"Every day, I missed them every day," she said.
The move to New York was supposed to be temporary. Ms. Ross enrolled at Medgar Evers College and worked at the few low-paying jobs she could get -- baby-sitting and house cleaning -- and sent home all the money she could.
She had not anticipated how lonely she would be. When she met an American man, they fell in love, married and had a son, Malcolm, but the union was fraught with cultural resentments.
"It's the difference between the blacks coming from the Caribbean and African-American blacks," she said. "He'd say to me, 'You guys come here to take our jobs. Why do you do this?' "
"I'm not on welfare," she would reply, "and this is honest money."
Yet it was not their differences over jobs that ruined the marriage: After a year, Ms. Ross discovered that her husband was using cocaine.
She and Malcolm moved out.
Her first break was six years ago, when she was hired at New York Methodist Hospital as a housekeeper.
After researching the hospital's job opportunities, she took professional courses through her union to make her eligible for the job she wanted, and won a promotion. First she became a nurse's aide, and two years ago she was promoted to supply technician, a licensed job, in the surgery unit.
Although Ms. Ross was still going to school, she had a stable income, so she sent for her children. Tremaine, 14, and Isiah, 12, came in May 1997. Wayne, 17, arrived last May. Her oldest daughter, 20, supports herself in Trinidad.
But living accommodations were a problem. With five people, Ms. Ross's one-bedroom apartment was full. She shared her bed with Malcolm and her daughter, Tremaine, and the other boys had a bunk bed, crowded into the same room.
When she found a three-bedroom apartment in Crown Heights, she jumped at the chance to rent it, although she knew paying the $900 rent would be difficult on her $2,200 monthly salary.
She used the last of her savings, but still was $900 short on the deposit.
In desperation, she went to the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies. The agency evaluated the family's predicament and gave Ms. Ross money for a deposit.
In their new home, the family is flourishing, and Ms. Ross is beginning to see the fruition of her dreams.
Taking one course a semester, she is well on her way to becoming a physician's assistant.
"My mom always told me, 'If you aim high, you won't fall to the ground; you'll fall somewhere in the middle,' " she said. "I may not be able to become a doctor but I can become a physician's assistant. I'm still struggling, but I'll get there, because I'm determined."
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded $6,142,172.22
Recorded yesterday 6,602.33
 
Total $6,148,774.55
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Desma Ross, who emigrated from Trinidad and is raising four children in Brooklyn, received help from a charity to secure a larger apartment. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND CHILDREN (90%); MARRIAGE (77%); FAMILY (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); RACE & RACISM (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); CHARITIES (70%); COCAINE (50%); 

PERSON: STOLZ, MARTIN; ROSS, DESMA

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



532 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Profit at Volkswagen Rose 64.8% in 1998

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WOLFSBURG, Germany, Feb. 23

 BODY:
Volkswagen A.G., Europe's biggest auto maker, said 1998 earnings rose 64.8 percent as sales swelled, though it warned it would be "difficult" to raise earnings this year amid slowing economic growth worldwide.
Net income rose to 2.24 billion marks, or $1.26 billion, from 1.36 billion marks a year earlier, the company said. 
 Volkswagen sales increased 18.5 percent. The company said last month that its unit sales rose about 11 percent, to 4.75 million units, on strong demand for the new Beetle and amid robust economies in the United States and Europe.
But Volkswagen said that it would "be difficult to achieve a further improvement in earnings this year, taking current car markets into account." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VOW (FRA) (95%); VKW (LSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (66%); GERMANY (58%); 

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG VOLKSWAGEN AG (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: VOLKSWAGEN AG

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (66%); GERMANY (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; AUTOMOBILES SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



533 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: America's Amazing Economy

 BODY:
These are astounding economic times. Overseas, Europe is slowing, most of Asia is in recession and Brazil threatens to drag down much of South America. But in the United States, consumers are spending with abandon and economists continue to be surprised by how robust the economy is.
It was against that background that Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, testified before the Senate Banking Committee yesterday. He again predicted that the economy would slow this year, and again warned that stock prices appeared to be overvalued. 
 Wall Street may hang on every word from Mr. Greenspan, but most Americans seem quite unconcerned. They continue to buy stocks, pushing prices higher and allowing them to feel and act richer. As Mr. Greenspan noted, the net worth of households is up about 50 percent since 1994, and personal consumption expenditures rose more last year than at any time since the mid-1980's. The Conference Board reports that Americans think current conditions are better than at any time since the board began its consumer confidence surveys in 1967.
Most economists, including Mr. Greenspan, have been overly pessimistic about the American economy for several years, and consumers seem to have decided to believe their own eyes rather than heed the warnings of fallible forecasters. In retrospect, it appears that growth was enhanced by technological change and aided by plunging commodity prices that reflected weakness abroad. Economists also underestimated the degree to which soaring stock prices would encourage spending, and the Fed's lowering of interest rates late last year, as it feared a weakness that did not materialize, only moved stock prices higher.
It is certainly enjoyable to see things constantly come out better than expected. But it is also slightly unnerving to realize that the experts are so confused. "We are, in a sense, learning as we are doing," Mr. Greenspan said yesterday. "There is no Economics 101 which carries us through what's going on today. We're probably writing the textbooks, but we don't have them to read yet." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); BONDS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); TEXTBOOKS (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



534 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Prices Tumble In Reaction To Testimony Of Fed Chief

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Bond prices fell sharply yesterday as traders and investors found a hint of higher interest rates later this year in remarks by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, as he presented the central bank's outlook for the economy to Congress.
Given the surprisingly strong 5.6 percent pace of economic growth at the end of last year and no signs that the economy is slowing significantly, investors were expecting some kind of warning from the chairman. 
 So, it was easy for them to see a threat of higher rates, for instance, when Mr. Greenspan indicated to the Senate Budget Committee yesterday that the three interest rate cuts last year, made to try to ward off any harm from the global financial crisis, might have gone too far.
"The Federal Reserve must continue to evaluate, among other issues, whether the full extent of the policy easings undertaken last fall to address the seizing-up of financial markets remains appropriate as those disturbances abate," the chairman said.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond fell 1 4/32 , to 97 12/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, jumped to 5.43 percent, from 5.35 percent on Monday. This is the second time in less than two weeks that the yield on the 30-year bond has climbed to levels not previously seen since August.
In another sign of concern about a rate increase later this year, the yield on the October Federal funds futures contract rose to 5.00 percent from 4.90 percent. The contract is an indicator of what some investors think the Fed's target for rates will be by fall. The Federal funds target rate is now 4.75 percent.
Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Salomon Smith Barney, said the lack of any immediate negative fallout from the currency devaluation in Brazil and signs that the economy was still strong have forced the market to reprice the outlook for interest rates over the last several weeks.
But, he added, he thinks that Mr. Greenspan is "still unconvinced there is any clear direction for policy." Although the Fed is discussing whether it should take back some of the interest rate reduction from last year, Mr. DiClemente said, "it is premature to speculate about who is going to win this tug-of-war."
One reflection of the indecision about the course of policy was the balance in Mr. Greenspan's description of the economic outlook. He cited factors that could make the economy grow too fast or make it slow down.
Along with the implied warning about higher interest rates, he said that there was no sign yet of a resurgence of inflation. He added that the "recent experience does seem to suggest that the economy has become less inflation prone than in the past, so that the chances of an inflationary breakout arguably are, at least for now, less than they would have been under similar conditions in earlier cycles."
This uncertainty about the outlook is probably why he told the senators that "in light of all these risks, monetary policy must be ready to move quickly in either direction."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NQE (AMEX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); FUTURES (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CURRENCIES (72%); DEVALUATION (69%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



535 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Excerpts From Federal Reserve Chairman's Testimony to Panel

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from testimony yesterday by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, before the Senate Budget Committee and an exchange between Mr. Greenspan and Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, who is a committee member, in a question-and-answer session after the testimony:
In many respects the fundamental underpinnings of the recent U.S. economic performance are strong. Flexible markets and the shift to surplus on the books of the Federal Government are facilitating the buildup in cutting-edge capital stock. That buildup in turn is spawning rapid advances in productivity that are helping to keep inflation well behaved. The new technologies and the optimism of consumers and investors are supporting asset prices and sustaining spending. 
 But, after eight years of economic expansion, the economy appears stretched in a number of dimensions, implying considerable upside and downside risks to the economic outlook. The robust increase of production has been using up our nation's spare labor resources, suggesting that recent strong growth in spending cannot continue without a pickup in inflation unless labor productivity growth increases significantly further. Equity prices are high enough to raise questions about whether shares are overvalued. The debt of the household and business sectors has mounted, as has the external debt of the country as a whole, reflecting the deepening current account deficit. We remain vulnerable to rapidly changing conditions overseas, which, as we saw last summer, can be transmitted to U.S. markets quickly and traumatically. . . .
In light of all these risks, monetary policy must be ready to move quickly in either direction should we perceive imbalances and distortions developing that could undermine the economic expansion. . . .
The Federal Open Market Committee conducted monetary policy last year with the aim of sustaining the remarkable combination of economic expansion and low inflation. . . .
To cushion the domestic economy from the impact of the increasing weakness in foreign economies and the less accommodative conditions in U.S. financial markets, the F.O.M.C., beginning in late September, undertook three policy easings. By mid-November, the F.O.M.C. had reduced the Federal funds rate from 5 1/2 percent to 4 3/4 percent. These actions were taken to rebalance the risks to the outlook, and, in the event, the markets have recovered appreciably. . . .
The Federal Reserve must continue to evaluate, among other issues, whether the full extent of the policy easings undertaken last fall to address the seizing-up of financial markets remains appropriate as those disturbances abate. . . .
Most governors and Reserve Bank presidents foresee that economic growth this year will slow to a 2 1/2 to 3 percent rate. Such growth would keep the unemployment rate about unchanged. The central tendency of the governors' and presidents' predictions of C.P.I. inflation is 2 to 2 1/2 percent. This level represents a pickup from last year, when energy prices were falling, but it is in the vicinity of core C.P.I. inflation over the last couple of years.
This outlook involves several risks. The continuing downside risk posed by possible economic and financial instability around the world was highlighted earlier this year by the events in Brazil. . . .
Another downside risk is that growth in capital spending, especially among manufacturers, could weaken appreciably if pressures on domestic profit margins mount and capacity utilization drops further. And it remains to be seen whether corporate earnings will disappoint investors, even if the slowing of economic growth is only moderate. . . .
A downward correction to stock prices, and an associated increase in the cost of equity capital, could compound a slowdown in the growth of capital spending. In addition, a stock market decline would tend to restrain consumption spending through its effect on household net worth.
But on the upside, our economy has proven surprisingly robust in recent years. More rapid increases in capital spending, productivity, real wages and asset prices have combined to boost economic growth far more and far longer than many of us would have anticipated.
This "virtuous cycle" has been able to persist because the behavior of inflation also has been surprisingly favorable, remaining well contained at levels of utilization of labor that in the past would have produced accelerating prices. That it has not done so in recent years has been the result of a combination of special one-time factors holding down prices and more lasting changes in the processes determining inflation.
Among the temporary factors, the sizable declines in the prices of oil, other internationally traded commodities, and other imports contributed directly to holding down inflation last year, and also indirectly by reducing inflation expectations. But these prices are not likely to fall further, and they could begin to rise as some Asian economies revive and the effects of the net depreciation of the dollar since midsummer are felt more strongly.
At the same time, however, recent experience does seem to suggest that the economy has become less inflation prone than in the past, so that the chances of an inflationary breakout arguably are, at least for now, less than they would have been under similar conditions in earlier cycles. . . .
MR. BUNNING -- In December 1996 with the Dow average at 6,437 you were worried about what you called "the irrational exuberance of the markets." With the Dow closing at 9,552, do you still have those same fears?
MR. GREENSPAN -- If you go back to the text of that 1996 speech . . . what I was trying to raise was that I was concerned that the discussions with respect to the various elements of how one should do monetary policy, whether we should begin to start to look at the issue of not only the price of goods and services but also the price of assets . . . And the question I was asking abstractly was how will we know when markets are gripped by "irrational exuberance." And I didn't have an answer at that particular point. I think I have an answer now, in that it's very difficult to judge, except in retrospect.
If any stock market . . . falls by 30 or 40 percent in a matter of weeks or a very few months I will grant that there was a bubble back there. The issue of trying to identify a bubble in advance means you have to be confident enough to predict a decline of that order of magnitude, and I don't know anyone who knows how to do that. . . .
Clearly no one has questioned at all that the dramatic acceleration we've seen in some technologies, and the marked increase in productivity and profitability of American business, has undoubtedly had a significant impact on underlying prices of all capital assets, including equities. Whether or not it's gripped by irrational exuberance is an issue that you won't really know for sure, except after the fact. But as I indicate in my prepared remarks, that I suspect that these markets are highly valued, leaves me without terribly much doubt at this point. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (92%); US FINANCIAL 15 SPLIT CORP (57%); U S FINANCIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); BONDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN; BUNNING, JIM (SEN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); JIM BUNNING (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



536 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Shares End DayMixed, With Blue Chips Struggling a Bit

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices were mixed yesterday as traders paused after Monday's big advance and digested comments by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, on the economy, inflation and financial markets.
Blue-chip stocks, which surged on Monday, struggled yesterday. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 8.26 points, or almost one-tenth of a percent, to 9,544.42. During the day, the Dow climbed as much as 58 points and fell as much as 79. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also edged down, falling 0.96 point, or nearly one-tenth of a percent, to 1,271.18.
However, positive comments by Mary Meeker, a technology and Internet analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, as well as by Mr. Greenspan, helped to push prices of stocks like Microsoft and Amazon.com higher.
The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index rose 34.34 points, or 1.5 percent, to 2,376.35. And TheStreet.com's Internet index gained 23.55 points, or 4.8 percent, to 514.53.
Mr. Greenspan said the role of technology had not only helped to dampen inflation but had also served as an anti-protectionist influence.
"Technological breakthroughs have progressively broken down barriers to cross-border trade," Mr. Greenspan said during his semiannual testimony to Congress.
However, his comments about labor markets and inflationary pressures did not sit well with the bond market, and Treasury prices fell.
Stock traders seemed to pay little notice yesterday, but some analysts suggested a rate increase would not be good news for stocks.
"If bonds stabilize and rally, we will probably see inflows into the market," said William Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. "But if bond yields go through the psychologically important level of 5.5 percent, it will be difficult to get the market to go higher." The yield on the 30-year issue rose to 5.43 percent yesterday.
Thomas Galvin, chief investment strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, suggested several seasonal factors were preying on bonds, including big income tax refunds, which are helping to bolster consumer spending, and the end of Japan's fiscal year on March 31, which has encouraged Japanese companies to bring back gains realized in the bond market.
"I think this is a short-term phenomenon," Mr. Galvin said. "The stock market is in something of a consolidation phase, and we are entering into an information void that will last for another few weeks, when companies will start issuing advisory statements on first-quarter earnings."
Despite yesterday's rise in interest rates, many big financial stocks did well.
The Dow's three best performers were financial companies. American Express gained 3 1/8, to 111 5/8. Citigroup rose 2 3/4, to 58 3/16 . And J. P. Morgan was up 2 5/16 , to 115 7/16 .
However, those gains were not enough to offset losses by companies like General Motors, which fell 1 15/16 , to 85 9/16 ; Procter & Gamble, which dropped 2 1/4, to 90 3/4, or Coca-Cola, which lost 1 11/16 , to 62 3/4.
Among technology shares, Microsoft jumped 6 5/8, to 155 7/16 . Oracle gained 3 15/16 , to 58 1/2. EMC closed at 108 5/16 , up 4 1/8. And Amazon.com rose 8 11/16 , to 115 3/16 .
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Feb, 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); TST (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); THESTREET INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (53%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; THESTREET.COM INTERNET INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); INTEREST RATES (64%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (61%); INCOME TAX (61%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



537 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Of Consumers Rises Again

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Healthy economic growth and a strong job market bolstered consumer confidence for a fourth consecutive month in February, and many Americans do not see the good times ending soon.
The Conference Board reported yesterday that its index of consumer confidence rose a stronger-than-expected 3.2 points, to 132.1, in February from a revised 128.9 in January. The index dropped sharply in October and has since been making a steady recovery. 
 Consumer sentiment is an important indicator because consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of overall economic activity.
"People are upbeat about the current environment and the things that influence their everyday lives," said Gary Thayer, senior economist at A. G. Edwards in St. Louis. "They have jobs and good wages. Interest rates are low and so is unemployment."
The survey reported a record low, 11.7 percent, of consumers saying that jobs were hard to get. It also found that more Americans said they would buy a car, home or major appliance in the next six months. Also, more consumers expect business conditions to get better, meaning more jobs and higher paychecks.
The index that measures feelings about present conditions rose 5.5 points, to 178.4, its highest level in the 32 years that the survey has been compiled by the business-financed study group.
The index that measures expectations for the next six months was also higher, rising 1.6 points, to 101.2.
The report comes amid strong economic growth in the United States, a surprising development to many economists who had expected the pace to slow in early 1999 because of global financial turmoil.
The consumer confidence index, started in 1967, is compiled from responses to questions sent to 5,000 households nationwide. The survey polls consumers on matters ranging from job prospects to buying plans. The index compares results with its base year, 1985, which is set at 100.

 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AGE (NASDAQ) (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD A G EDWARDS INC (61%); CONFERENCE BOARD INC (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (54%); 

PERSON: GARY THAYER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



538 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: World News Briefs

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

ASIA
 
INDIA: BIHAR TAKEOVER IN DOUBT -- The Government's decision to dismiss the state government of Bihar, scene of two recent massacres of low-caste rural laborers, and to impose central rule appears doomed in Parliament. The opposition Congress Party has decided to vote against ratification of central rule, saying the massacres are insufficient reason to dismiss an elected government. Hari Kumar (NYT)
 
UZBEKISTAN: 30 HELD IN FATAL BOMBINGS -- President Islam Karimov, left, said 30 people, described as mostly radical Islamists who underwent training in Chechnya, Afghanistan and Tajikistan, had been held on charges of organizing bombings last week that he called an attempt to assassinate him. The blasts, in Tashkent, the capital, killed 16 people. (Reuters) 

CAMBODIA: HUN SEN LOOKS FOR AID -- Prime Minister Hun Sen and his top ministers left for Tokyo to meet with Cambodia's main aid donors. Cambodia hopes for $1.3 billion during the next three years. The 16 countries, and institutions including the Asian Development Bank and World Bank, are expected to pledge at least $450 million for the next year. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAQ: F-15's HIT MILITARY SITES -- Two U.S. F-15 fighters each dropped a 2,000-pound bomb on a military installation in Iraq after planes in the northern no-flight zone came under antiaircraft fire, Pentagon officials said. In a separate indident, F-15's dropped 500-pound bombs on a rocket site. Col. Richard Bridges of the Army said there was no immediate word on damage, The Associated Press reported. The official Iraqi news agency said one person was wounded, Reuters said.
 
IRAQ: TRADE WITH 4 NATIONS BARRED -- Iraq has banned trade with United States, British, Japanese and Swiss companies under its oil-for-food deal with the United Nations, an Iraqi economic newspaper reported. The weekly Ittehad listed companies from 33 countries that Government ministries can conclude deals with under the pact allowing Baghdad to sell $5.26 billion worth of oil to buy relief goods. (Reuters)
 
IRAN: IRAQIS PROTEST SLAYING -- More than 3,000 Iraqi refugees converged on Iraq's embassy in Teheran, left, and witnesses said Iraqi guards opened fire as some protesters scaled the fence around the compound. The Iraqis were protesting the slaying of Grand Ayatollah Mohammed Sadiq al-Sader, a senior Shiite cleric who was gunned down in Iraq. (AP)
 
AFRICA
 
ETHIOPIA: CONFLICT APPEARS TO WIDEN -- Ethiopia began what appeared to be a major offensive in its war against neighboring Eritrea, attacking with what Eritrea said were substantial numbers of infantry and tanks along their disputed border. Ethiopia claimed to have inflicted "heavy damage" but declined to release details. Eritrea said it destroyed nine tanks. Ian Fisher (NYT)
 
SOUTH AFRICA: POLICEMEN GIVEN AMNESTY -- Four former police officers who kidnapped and killed a leading anti-apartheid activist have been granted amnesty by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. The commission found that Nic van Rensburg, Gerrit Erasmus, Hermanus du Plessis and Johannes Raath had told the truth and had political motives for killing Sizwe Kondile in 1981. Suzanne Daley (NYT)
 
CONGO: NEW PARTY FORMED -- One of the main rebel leaders in Congo, Arthur Z'Ahidi Ngoma, has formed a new group to oppose the Government of President Laurent Kabila by negotiation rather than war, BBC News reported. He said the Union of Congolese for Peace would be unarmed and would include people from within and outside Congo. 
 
THE AMERICAS
 
ARGENTINA: PERONISTS UNITE -- The two leading declared presidential candidates of the governing Peronist party, Gov. Eduardo Duhalde of Buenos Aires Province and Senator Ramon Ortega of Tucuman Province, have joined forces in an attempt to avert a divisive April 11 primary. Mr. Ortega is now considered likely to agree to run as Mr. Duhalde's vice presidential running mate. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
MEXICO: OPPOSITION DISPUTES VOTE -- The opposition Party of the Democratic Revolution, or P.R.D., has asked authorities to annul the results of Sunday's gubernatorial vote in Quintana Roo State, saying it was marred by irregularities. According to official results, the candidate of President Ernesto Zedillo's governing party, or PRI, received 45 percent of the votes, the P.R.D. 36 percent and the National Action candidate 17 percent. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
EUROPE
 
BELGIUM: LITTLE PROGRESS IN FARM TALKS -- Against the backdrop of mass farmer protests, European Union agriculture ministers made little headway in complex negotiations in Brussels to overhaul the union's costly farm subsidy program. The ministers are trying to pare down the group's $44.1 billion annual subsidies budget, but their farm spokesman, Gerry Kiely, said "there's been no significant progress." (AP)
 
BULGARIA, MACEDONIA: LANGUAGE ACCORD -- Bulgaria signed an accord with Macedonia recognizing the Macedonian language, ending a dispute that had soured their relations since the early 1990's and enabling them to sign agreements. In January 1992, Bulgaria was the first country to recognize Macedonia when it broke away from Yugoslavia, but had insisted that its language is only a dialect of Bulgarian. (Agence France-Presse)
 
SWEDEN: WAR CRIMINALS PACT -- Sweden signed a treaty with the United Nations, becoming the fourth nation, with Finland, Italy and Norway, to agree to imprison war criminals convicted by the Yugoslavia war crimes tribunal in The Hague. (Reuters)
 
 Compiled by Terence Neilan
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (69%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); ERITREA (93%); ETHIOPIA (93%); ASIA (93%); CAMBODIA (93%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); INDIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN (78%); JAPAN (78%); 

STATE: BIHAR, INDIA (90%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%); TASHKENT, UZBEKISTAN (58%); 

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (69%); IRAQI NEWS AGENCY (53%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (98%); ERITREA (93%); ETHIOPIA (93%); ASIA (93%); CAMBODIA (93%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); INDIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN (78%); JAPAN (78%); BIHAR, INDIA (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%); TASHKENT, UZBEKISTAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); SHOOTINGS (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); ARMIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); REFUGEES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); ASSASSINATION (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); RELIGION (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); 

PERSON: HUN SEN (71%); ISLAM KARIMOV (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



539 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: A Small Political Breed, but Hardy

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I., Feb. 17

 BODY:
To call Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island the dean of the dodos is not to disparage him.
It is, rather, to highlight a fact that he easily admits: The brand of moderate Congressional Republican he represents -- that small faction that suddenly loomed large when it changed the shape of this month's vote in the impeachment trial -- sometimes seems an endangered species, teetering on the edge of what some have called dodo-like extinction as the party has become more conservative across the country. 
 Across the country, that is, except in New England.
For Senator Chafee and his handful of maverick lunch-buddies are very much a crop of this rocky northeastern soil, and a hardy one at that: Senators Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe, both of Maine, Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont and Mr. Chafee, 76 and finishing his fourth term. They accounted for four of the five Republican votes in the Senate against both articles of impeachment, the fifth from Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania.
That New England tilt among Republican moderates in Congress, political analysts and players say, is no coincidence.
But before they talk about the long tradition of patrician Republicans here, the party's Northern origins as a liberal anti-slavery movement, and the reverence for past Republican paragons of statesmanship like Margaret Chase Smith of Maine, the first woman to be elected to both houses of Congress, they tend to zero in on a very simple fact.
In this, the most liberal region in the country, a Republican who is not moderate will simply not get elected -- always excepting New Hampshire, of course, with its anomalous streak of Western-style, off-my-back conservatism. Look at it this way, said Joan Quick, chairwoman of the state Republican Party. "We are currently an electorate that is 8 percent registered Republican. That's it in a nutshell."
Massachusetts is a similar Democratic stronghold, while Maine, Connecticut and Vermont are more evenly divided, but one thing unites the non-New Hampshire states: For a Republican to win, the candidate must be the kind of fiscally conservative but socially liberal type that Mr. Chafee and the "mod squad," as some call them, exemplify.
So it was not surprising, on a recent day as Senator Chafee traveled through his home turf of Providence, Pawtucket and Warwick, to hear not a single voice of complaint about his vote -- indeed, barely a mention of it. After an awards ceremony at Textron, a major manufacturing company based in Providence, one employee came up to the Senator and said, "I want to thank you for your courage and leadership in bringing that thing to an end down there."
"Well," Mr. Chafee responded, "Thank God it's over."
And it was over, with no visible ill effects for the re-election bid that aides hint Mr. Chafee is expected to announce soon, in fact quite the opposite. Similarly, the other two New England moderate Republican Senators up for re-election next year, Mr. Jeffords and Ms. Snowe, need fear little voter reprisal by most estimates, though there is talk that Mr. Jeffords may face a more conservative challenger in the primary.
In fact, said Christian Potholm, a professor of government at Bowdoin College who has conducted polls for Republicans, Democrats and independents, though Ms. Snowe surely voted her conscience, "she also made herself invulnerable in the year 2000 in the Senate race, because you cannot beat her unless you get the moderate-Democrat suburban voters who love what she did."
Ms. Snowe and her comrades, Professor Potholm said, are carrying on a regional Republican tradition.
"You can be strong on national defense, you can be strong on capital punishment, you can be conservative on balancing the budget, but you're liberal socially," he said. "It's a kind of live-and-let-live Republicanism; it's a Rockefeller Republicanism, and we forget that that was the Republican Party. The epicenter has switched to the South and West, and what we now call conservative Republicans are really out of step with the main history of the Republican Party in the Northeast."
The impetus for recent efforts to move the national party toward the center has come in good part from the Northeast: Senator Snowe's husband, former Gov. John R. McKernan Jr. of Maine, helped found the Main Street Partnership in 1997 to promote Republican centrist views. And former Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts has often pounded the pulpit calling for the party's moderate wing to get its act together.
But in general, said Darrell West, a political science professor at Brown University, the effort "to recast the national Republican Party has been a complete failure."
So in Congress, at least, the moderate Republican New Englanders have seemed an ever-lonelier bunch in recent years, as they have lost Senate allies like Mark O. Hatfield of Oregon; Nancy Kassebaum Baker of Kansas; John C. Danforth of Missouri; David Durenburger of Minnesota and Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut. ("Lonely? I don't quite find it that way. Obviously there's a rapport," Mr. Chafee said, adding, "We have lunch every Wednesday.")
Mr. Weld and others point out that in fact, Chafee-style moderation is much more the norm among the country's 31 Republican governors than among Republican members of Congress. Some also note that even in Congress, the moderates' numbers may be small, but they are in a powerful swing position that gives them added weight when they break ranks on issues.
"Even national Republicans who don't particularly appreciate some of the votes of the New England moderates need then to maintain the majority," observed Patrick J. Garahan, chairman of the Vermont Republican Party.
But for now, it seems, the mod squad is likely to stay squad-sized and localized.
"This wonderful moderate Republican tradition will be a sort of anomaly," said Garrison Nelson, a visiting professor at Brandeis University and observer of New England politics. "It will survive because of the personal stature of these individuals, and when the parties split and the Senate is close, and the margin is six votes, these individuals can have an important moderating impact on the conservatives who need their votes."
The line of moderate Republican leaders in New England, like the former Massachusetts Governors John Volpe and Francis W. Sargent, Mr. Chafee said, are pragmatists.
"They're not ideologues," he said. "For someone to say, 'Oh, that's socialized medicine' -- they think that's nonsense. They say, 'Let's see if it's a good program.' "
In southern New England particularly, Republicans have also tended to be associated in many minds with old money that gives them a can't-be-bought aura setting them apart from the machine-style politics often associated with Democrats here. A graduate of Yale and Harvard Law School, and a member of the "five families" considered to be Rhode Island's home-grown aristocracy, Mr. Chafee fits that mold, even though he dismisses the idea of the five families as nonsense.
Mr. Chafee said he joined the Republican Party in his youth because "the state was in a shambles" under a "rock-hard Democratic leadership, with every giveaway program known to man, leading the country in unemployment and with labor completely dominant."
Rhode Island is still heavily union, Democratic and Roman Catholic, but Mr. Chafee has won elections with the help of voters like Steve Barlow, a manufacturer who attended the Textron lunch for the Senator and said he was a registered independent who supported either liberal Republicans or conservative Democrats.
"He fits right in with me," Mr. Barlow said. "Lots of times you like your senator but don't love him. I think Chafee is loved."
Though such Republican moderates often run against the grain of the national party, they still receive backing from the national party, state chairmen say. Mr. Chafee said he had not heard any rebuke from party leaders about his vote.
And Professor West of Brown offered a simple explanation about why New England moderate Republicans will continue to get strong support from their national leaders: "There are stronger species waiting to eat them. They're called Democrats."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, a moderate Republican who voted to acquit President Clinton, upholds a New England tradition. (Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 1100 CRITICALHABITAT LEGISLATION (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MAINE, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (93%); PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); RHODE ISLAND; UNITED STATES (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MAINE, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (93%); PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS; ELECTIONS IMPEACHMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (72%); SLAVERY (51%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; CHAFEE, JOHN (SEN) LINCOLN CHAFEE (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



540 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Panel to Urge Big U.S. Effort In Technology

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23

 BODY:
Warning that the nation's economic future is at risk, a Presidential advisory committee plans to recommend that Federal financing for advanced research in the field of information technology be doubled over the next five years.
The report, scheduled to be released Wednesday, is a result of nearly two years of study by the 26-member Presidential commission -- a group divided about equally between leading university researchers and executives from technology companies including Intel, Microsoft, Sun Microsystems, I.B.M. and AT&T. 
 The group's appeal for increased Federal research funds for computing and telecommunications at a time when these industries are thriving is based on the view that the Government has a unique role to play in supporting research that is the seed corn of new businesses 10 or 15 years in the future.
Everything from the microchip to the Internet, the report notes, can be traced to fundamental research bankrolled by the Government years ago. That role, the advisory group insists, needs to be strengthened. The vast majority of the proposed funds would go to universities, not private industry.
Federal investment in most areas of information-technology research has been flat or declining for nearly a decade, adjusted for inflation, largely because of the push to curb Government spending in general and because the end of the cold war brought a contraction in military-related research. Yet the erosion in financing has come as the nation's economy has become increasingly dependent on this sector.
"This is mainly an investment in the key asset of the information age -- trained people nurtured at universities," said Bill Joy, a founder of Sun Microrosystems and co-chairman of the advisory committee. "It's a societal investment. What we need to create is a Silicon Continent, not just Silicon Valley."
The businesses that produce computers, semiconductors, software and communications equipment have accounted for one-third of the growth in production of the American economy since 1992 and have created millions of jobs. But while the industry is flourishing, companies are under more and more competitive pressure to shorten their horizons, as product generations often last a year or less and long-range research is given short shrift.
"Information technology is a field where the United States leads the world, and it's important to understand how that happened," said Larry Smarr, the director of the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, who is a member of the advisory group. "What we have today can be traced to federally funded long-term research in universities."
There is already some evidence that the White House and Federal agencies may be receptive to the appeal by the panel, the President's Information Technology Advisory Committee. In the aftermath of the group's interim report, issued last August, the Clinton Administration proposed in January an increase of $366 million, or 28 percent, in federally financed research for information technology in fiscal year 2000, which begins in September.
Vice President Al Gore said today that he strongly supported the group's conclusion that "the Government needs to increase its investment in long-term information-technology research."
Over all, the advisory committee recommends that annual Federal financing for information-technology research increase by $1.3 billion during the next five years.
The advisory group concluded that the Government-backed research should focus on four areas: software, building up the Internet infrastructure, high-end computing and the impact on society and the work force of information technology.
Software research, the group's report says, should be directed increasingly at designing software that can be used as smaller, reliable and re-usable building blocks -- "component-based software design." The report warns that the nation has become "dangerously dependent on large software systems, whose behavior is not well understood and which often fail in unpredicted ways." It cites as examples the big-system headaches of some Government agencies, like the Federal Aviation Administration, and the difficulty of fixing the Year 2000 problem in major computer systems.
The infrastructure research, the report says, is needed to make the move to an increasingly wired world in which today's 30 million computers connected to the Internet could become billions of devices from hand-held computers to household appliances, all linked to the Internet.
The report calls for increased spending to accelerate the performance of supercomputers that can be used for sophisticated applications like weather and climate forecasting, advanced manufacturing design and development of new drugs.
The group also recommends the creation of a series of well-financed "virtual centers" nationwide. In the report, these centers are termed "expeditions into the 21st century" or "time machines." Equipped with the most advanced computers -- hundreds or a thousand times more powerful than today's desktop machines -- the centers would allow computer scientists and others to experiment with the technology that will become affordable and widespread a decade later.
In an unusual recommendation from a technology elite, the group also called for social science research on the impact of technology. These include the issues of access to technology, upgrading of workers' skills and encouraging increased participation in the computer sciences by women and minorities.
"This technology is becoming so important to people's lives and their economic opportunities that as a nation we have to make sure that everything is done so that everyone is connected," said Irving Wladawsky-Berger, general manager of I.B.M.'s Internet division and a member of the Presidential commission.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; FEDERAL AID (US); TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; RESEARCH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); JOB CREATION (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); COLD WAR (70%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); ANN LIVERMORE (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



541 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and China Trying Hard For Breakthrough on Trade

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 23

 BODY:
The United States and China have resumed intense negotiations over Beijing's desire to join the World Trade Organization, hoping against the odds to be able to announce a breakthrough when Prime Minister Zhu Rongji visits Washington in April, American officials said today.
Last year, after repeatedly fruitless talks, American trade officials seemed to have given up on China's entry anytime soon in the organization, which sets global trading rules. 
 In sharply critical terms, the Americans said China was too consumed by domestic economic ills to make required concessions such as reducing tariffs and opening more areas of its economy to foreign investors.
The obstacles remain enormous, but the two Governments are making a crash effort to resolve issues that have defied agreement for years.
"The United States has a great interest in China acceding to the W.T.O. on commercially viable terms," said Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, speaking to reporters here this evening after meeting with Prime Minister Zhu.
He said Mr. Zhu had reaffirmed China's strong desire to reach an accommodation. "We both agreed that this was a crucial window of opportunity," Mr. Summers said, his hopeful tone in striking contrast to that of American officials during 1998.
Mr. Summers, who is briefly visiting Beijing on a trip through Asia, did not engage in negotiations. But a senior official of the United States trade representative's office is taking part in detailed talks here.
On March 3, right after a visit by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, who will discuss a range of issues with the Chinese, the chief trade negotiator, Charlene Barshefsky, will arrive for two days of talks. After Ms. Barshefsky's visit, officials said, it will be easier to judge whether the new push has any chance of success.
China wants the international prestige that come from joining the trade organization and also would get a measure of protection against trade barriers to its exports. Washington wants an agreement that will lower China's tariffs and commit it to a legally enforceable schedule for opening its markets.
While Chinese membership requires broad agreement within the trade organization, it is widely assumed that once the United States is satisfied, other major countries will go along.
But it is unclear how wide differences can be bridged over such complex issues as access to the Chinese market for agricultural and industrial goods and for high-end services like insurance and finance.
While committed to gradual opening of its economy, China is more worried than ever about rising unemployment and is struggling to revamp state industries that could be killed by quickly lowered trade barriers.
For its part, the Clinton Administration would come under strong attack from business and political opponents if it appeared to grant too many concessions to China, which by American estimates last year ran a $57 billion trade surplus with the United States.
Officials have hinted that a compromise may involve stretching out the time by which China would have to make major policy changes.
"It's by no means clear that a mutually satisfactory agreement can be reached," Mr. Summers said. "But there is a feeling on both sides that we shouldn't miss an agreement because of a failure of communications or a lack of effort."
One reason for the new sense of urgency, he said, is the realization that if agreement cannot be reached in the next few months, China's entry to the trade group is likely to face long delays. Later this year, the organization will begin to rewrite its rules. The change is likely to stiffen the conditions for entry and to complicate a new application by a giant like China.
In Washington, President Clinton's advisers say they have doubts about Mr. Zhu's ability to offer the kind of market-opening concessions that are required for a deal, and they question whether Congress, which could try to block an agreement, would go along. "The atmosphere right now -- with the satellite controversy, the human rights issues, the military questions -- would make passage very difficult," one Clinton aide said this week.
One senior official said that in talks in Beijing recently, Mr. Zhu initially suggested that China might agree to a rapid opening of key sectors of its economy to foreign competition, making the transition in one to three years. "But immediately the Chinese had to backpedal," the official noted, insisting that some markets would have to stay closed 10 to 15 years to allow Chinese industry to catch up technologically with the West.
Also, as American presidential politics heat up next year, it may be impossible to muster domestic support for any complex agreement with China, officials fear.
Both Governments are searching for ways to bolster their relationship, which has badly frayed since the euphoria of President Clinton's visit last spring as Beijing cracked down harshly on political dissidents and the American trade deficit with China widened.
American and Chinese officials hope that relations will be strengthened by the visit to Washington and other American cities by Mr. Zhu, who cuts an appealing figure abroad. But apart from possible trade organization membership, there do not appear to be other opportunities for major agreements to announce.
While a finished deal by April on trade appears impossible, "the goal is to get the big issues in place by the time of Prime Minister Zhu's visit," said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, the senior White House adviser on Asia, who accompanied Mr. Summers.
"The U.S. business community has to see any agreement as commercially viable," Mr. Lieberthal added. "Without that support it will never work."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION LAWRENCE H STEIN (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); 

PERSON: SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (DEPUTY SEC); ZHU RONGJI (PRIME MIN); ECKHOLM, ERIK LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



542 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Economy Still Strong,but Risks Are There, Greenspan Says

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, described the risks to the nation's long run of prosperity today as balanced between the possibility of too much growth rekindling inflation and the threat of a stock market drop or further global shocks derailing the expansion.
His remarks to Congress, which were just what investors and economists had expected, suggested that the Federal Reserve would wait for a clearer sense of where the economy was heading before raising or lowering interest rates. 
 After eight years of steady growth, Mr. Greenspan said, "the economy appears stretched in a number of dimensions, implying considerable upside and downside risks to the economic outlook."
As a result, he said, interest rate policy "must be ready to move quickly in either direction should we perceive imbalances and distortions developing that could undermine economic expansion."
Despite another expression of concern from Mr. Greenspan about the level of stock prices, investors largely shrugged off his comments, with the Dow Jones industrial average bouncing around during the day before closing down 8.26 points at 9,544.42. Bond prices fell and the dollar weakened.
Mr. Greenspan's testimony to the Senate Banking Committee suggested that while the central bank wanted to keep its options open, it was somewhat more inclined to raise rates than to lower them, given that the economy grew at a 5.6 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of last year and has shown signs of considerable momentum in the first two months of this year.
He told senators that after cutting rates three times last fall, leaving the Federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks at 4.75 percent, the Federal Reserve now needed to reassess whether current economic conditions justify keeping rates where they are.
During the time the Fed was cutting rates, the global crisis was threatening to create a credit squeeze in the United States, a threat that has since lessened. Some economists have criticized the Fed's third rate cut last fall as unnecessary given the resilience of the economy and the financial markets, and have speculated that Mr. Greenspan would like to undo it, a surmise that he gave some credence to today.
"The Federal Reserve must continue to evaluate, among other issues, whether the full extent of the policy easings undertaken last fall to address the seizing-up of financial markets remains appropriate as those disturbances abate," Mr. Greenspan said.
The Fed next meets to review monetary policy on March 30, but analysts said that unless the economy veered markedly in one direction or the other there was little chance of any policy change before late spring or early summer.
Mr. Greenspan said that after three consecutive years of 4 percent annual growth, the Federal Reserve expects the economy to slow to a more modest growth rate this year, and that as the economy slows any incipient inflationary pressures will remain contained. But the Fed has been forecasting a slowdown for two years, and it has not materialized. On the other hand, as Mr. Greenspan pointed out, neither has inflation.
Still, Mr. Greenspan did today what central bankers are paid to do: worry about what could go wrong, and provide some assurance that if the economy does go awry he has a plan.
Mr. Greenspan said he remained concerned about the level of stock prices, which he said were "high enough to raise questions about whether shares are overvalued," especially if companies fail to post the robust earnings investors have come to expect. But he passed up an opportunity to say investors were suffering from "irrational exuberance," answering a question on the topic by saying it is all but impossible to identify a stock market bubble before it has burst.
"Nobody has questioned at all that the dramatic acceleration that we have seen in some technologies, and the marked increase in productivity and profitability of American businesses, has undoubtedly had a significant impact on underlying prices of all capital assets, including equities," Mr. Greenspan said.
"Whether or not it's gripped by irrational exuberance is an issue that you won't really know for sure except after the fact," he said, adding, though, that stock prices were high enough to give him "concerns."
Mr. Greenspan identified the rapidly growing trade deficit, and its contribution to a large and rising current account deficit, as one of the most notable long-term threats to the nation's economic health.
"Should the sustainability of the buildup in our foreign indebtedness come into question, the exchange value of the dollar may well decline, imparting pressures on prices in the United States," Mr. Greenspan said.
He quickly added that the trade deficit so far has been a symptom of forces that have proved beneficial, with weak demand from abroad helping to offset the strains on the economy from extremely strong domestic demand even as the strong dollar holds down import prices.
The Fed chairman said the United States remained "vulnerable to rapidly changing conditions overseas, which, as we saw last summer, can be transmitted to U.S. markets quickly and traumatically."
The outlook in Russia remains "troubling," he said, while Brazil's outlook is uncertain. Contradicting Japanese officials who say their country's beleaguered economy has hit bottom and is ready to rebound, Mr. Greenspan said Japan was still weakening.
Mr. Greenspan used much of his prepared testimony to explain the temporary factors that have contributed to the remarkable confluence of strong growth, low unemployment and dormant inflation, and the more fundamental forces reshaping the economy.
Among the temporary factors, he said, are the steep decline in oil prices and commodity prices generally. But even if those prices begin rising, the economy may prove less susceptible to inflation than it has been in the past, largely because companies are investing heavily in technology and cost-saving equipment, he said.
Unable to raise prices, and unwilling to pay higher wages, companies have had to cope by improving their productivity, or output per worker, he said. Several factions within the Fed have been debating for the last several years whether the United States is seeing a resurgence in productivity growth after nearly three decades of stagnation, and in his comments today Mr. Greenspan again weighed in on the side of those who think the improvement in productivity is part of a basic improvement in the country's economic outlook.
"According to rough estimates, labor and capital productivity has risen significantly in the past five years," Mr. Greenspan said. "It seems likely that the synergies of advances in laser, fiber optic, satellite and computer technologies with older technologies have enlarged the pool of opportunities to achieve a rate of return above the cost of capital."
Technology, he said, allows companies to be more nimble, ordering parts or raw materials only as needed, restraining costs and increasing production capacity faster than actual output has risen. The process of holding down costs and prices has become self-reinforcing, he said, with workers no longer expecting big wage increases to make up for inflation.
But lest he be seen as taking his eye off the potential for inflation, Mr. Greenspan added that improved productivity would not keep the country from running short of workers if the economy continued to race along.
"This worker depletion constitutes a critical upside risk to the inflation outlook because it presumably cannot continue for very much longer without putting increasing pressure on labor markets and on costs," Mr. Greenspan said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The currently balanced economy could tip up or down, and the Fed is ready for either, its chairman, Alan Greenspan, told Congress yesterday. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); INFLATION (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TRENDS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); US DOLLAR (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



543 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Buchanan Preparing for Presidential Bid

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23

 BODY:
Patrick J. Buchanan, who stunned the political establishment when his low-budget, insurgent campaign triumphed in the New Hampshire Republican primary in 1996, is preparing a third bid for the White House in 2000, several close associates say.
Today, Tom Johnson, the president of CNN, announced that Mr. Buchanan had been granted a leave as co-host of the program, "Crossfire," beginning on Wednesday. "We wish Pat well in his exploration of a possible G.O.P. candidacy," Mr. Johnson said. Some of his associates said Mr. Buchanan might announce his intentions as early as next week. 
 Apart from his appearances as a commentator, Mr. Buchanan has laid low in the last three years and not participated in many of the political forums that are frequented by prospective candidates.
But several associates, most of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Mr. Buchanan had told them he was bored with his television role and believed that the early Republican front-runner, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, was not as inevitable a nominee as was Senator Bob Dole four years ago.
Given Mr. Buchanan's passionate following among social conservatives in states with early contests, his candidacy would immediately complicate the race. Others who are already fiercely competing for the support of this conservative core include former Vice President Dan Quayle; Steve Forbes, the publishing magnate; Senator Bob Smith of New Hampshire and Gary Bauer, who was head of the Family Research Council.
Mr. Buchanan, who is 60, has long been underestimated. In his first bid for public office, he humiliated President George Bush by drawing more than 37 percent of the vote in the New Hampshire primary in 1992. Four years later, Mr. Buchanan won the New Hampshire primary with 27 percent of the vote, a point ahead of Mr. Dole. And he came close to defeating Mr. Dole in the crucial Iowa caucuses, drawing 23 percent, compared with 26 percent for Mr. Dole.
Mr. Buchanan was also victorious in three other early caucuses, Alaska, Louisiana and Missouri. He essentially knocked out the well-financed campaign of Senator Phil Gramm of Texas. But Mr. Buchanan's campaign, overpowered and outspent by Mr. Dole, fizzled after New Hampshire.
"Pat is probably going to coalesce his old voters again and he's going to be a formidable force," said Terry Jeffrey, the editor of Human Events, who was Mr. Buchanan's campaign manager in 1996. Arguing that Mr. Buchanan's seething appeals to the disaffected and his attacks on corporate interests had a receptive audience in New Hampshire, he added, "If the economy turns down, he could be even more formidable than he was last time."
Jim Nicholson, chairman of the Republican Party, said: "A considerable number of people in the party take him seriously, particularly in the early going. Iowa and New Hampshire are retail political places -- and he's very good at that."
Another explanation for Mr. Buchanan's apparent rethinking about running in recent months may be that he sees a fresh opening for his populist economic message. Despite the potent domestic economy, the global economic crisis in recent months has led to a flood of low-cost imports in industries like steel, leaving workers and companies feeling vulnerable to unfair competition. That has been one of Mr. Buchanan's central themes.
"He's convinced that the global trade issues, particularly the economic issues, work for him," said Bill Press, a Democrat who is Mr. Buchanan's sparring partner on "Crossfire."
But a crucial question for Mr. Buchanan is whether he can tap into the reservoir of support he enjoyed last time. Already, most of his top aides from 1996 have moved on. Mr. Jeffrey said he had no intention to leave Human Events. Greg Mueller, Mr. Buchanan's communications chief in 1996, is planning to sign up with Mr. Forbes. Connie Mackey, who was a top Buchanan strategist four years ago, is working for Mr. Bauer. Mr. Buchanan's sister, Bay Buchanan, a driving force behind his candidacies, has told associates that she expects to continue as a commentator on MSNBC. And Peter Robbio, who ran Mr. Buchanan's operation in New Hampshire four years ago, is expected to work for Mr. Forbes.
One reason Mr. Forbes has recruited past Buchanan supporters is that he has readjusted his message with an appeal to many of the social conservatives who backed Mr. Buchanan in 1996. Mr. Forbes has the personal wealth to stay in the race and is therefore generally viewed as more electable than Mr. Buchanan. Mr. Quayle also has far greater resources than Mr. Buchanan.
Kyle McSlarrow, Mr. Quayle's campaign chairman, said that because of the crowded field he doubted that Mr. Buchanan could win New Hampshire. "We're fast approaching a situation where we may have more candidates than people in New Hampshire," he said. "But I never count Pat Buchanan out."
While Mr. Buchanan has been a divisive Republican figure -- he was attacked even in his own party for appearing harsh in commenting about homosexuals and others at the Republican convention in 1992 -- he has been a master at capturing press attention.
"Pat doesn't need a big political machine," Mr. Mueller said. "He'll energize his base of supporters who will line up behind his Lincoln Navigator looking for rides to caucuses and polls." But, he added: "The end game is the problem. That's where the niche conservatives run into a virtually insurmountable firewall."
Despite early polls showing that Mr. Buchanan is in the single digits in Iowa and New Hampshire, Mr. Press said Mr. Buchanan told him he believed he could win. "He is convinced that if Elizabeth Dole stumbles, if G. W. stumbles, in a field of pygmies, he's the giant," he said. "This is not just a need for adulation on his part."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CROSSFIRE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); IOWA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAY BUCHANAN (69%); FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (82%); FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (82%); FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); IOWA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; TELEVISION US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); BRUCE NICHOLSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



544 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Ethnic Albanians Agree To Kosovo Peace Pact
The ethnic Albanian delegation at the Kosovo talks agreed in principle to a peace settlement, turning at the last minute what appeared to be an almost certain collapse for the Clinton Administration's peace effort into a limited success. American officials acknowledged that the result was far from what they needed to pressure Slobodan Milosevic, the Yugoslav President. A1
 
Serbian army and police forces traded missile fire with guerrillas in a northern Kosovo village for the second day in a row, as the residents cowered in their houses. A10 

Deadly Avalanche in Austria
An avalanche crashed through a small Austrian resort, Galtur, near the Swiss border, killing at least nine people and leaving dozens missing. Driving snow and deadly winds hampered search and rescue efforts. A1
 
U.S. Responds to Spy Charges
The State Department said that a book by Scott Ritter, a former United Nations weapons inspector who has alleged that the C.I.A. helped to plan arms inspections in Iraq, was inaccurate, misleading and "can only serve Saddam Hussein's propaganda machine." A6
 
Heavy Fighting in Lebanon
Three Israeli officers were killed and five soldiers were wounded by Shiite Muslim guerrillas who attacked them with grenades and machine guns, in the year's fiercest battle yet in southern Lebanon. A3
 
Capital Charge for Kurd Rebel
The Kurdish guerrilla leader, Abdullah Ocalan, who was captured in Kenya last week, was formally charged with treason, a crime that can carry the death penalty. There have been no executions in Turkey since 1984, but popular sentiment in Turkey appears to favor capital punishment for Mr. Ocalan. A3
 
U.S. and China Discuss Trade
The United States and China have resumed intense negotiations over Beijing's desire to join the World Trade Organization, hoping against the odds that they will be able to announce a breakthrough when Prime Minister Zhu Rongji visits Washington in April, United States officials said. A8
 
Reversal of Ruling on Cubans
A Federal judge in Puerto Rico, presiding over the case of seven Cuban exiles accused of plotting to kill Fidel Castro, reversed a ruling he made in January to move the trial to Miami and instead has ordered the proceedings to continue in Puerto Rico. A9
 
Marijuana Study Recommended
The board that oversees international drug-control treaties for the United Nations has recommended that governments sponsor impartial research into the medicinal benefits of marijuana, which some users say alleviates the pain and nausea associated with AIDS, cancer and other diseases. A8
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A12-17
 
Independent Counsel Law Faces a Hostile Senate
Senators from both parties predicted that the Watergate-era statute authorizing independent counsels would be heavily revised or killed off. Hearings on renewing the law begin today. A1
 
Chilly Meeting in Oval Office
President Clinton and Republican leaders of Congress met in a businesslike but chilly session that appeared to do little to ease the cold war between them. It was the first formal encounter between the President and the bipartisan Congressional leadership since July 1997. A1
 
Clinton Defense Fund Surges
President Clinton's legal defense fund has raised $4.6 million in the last year, buoyed by a direct-mail campaign that blamed Kenneth W. Starr and the Congressional impeachment process for saddling the First Family with "a staggering personal debt" of nearly $9 million, several supporters said. A16
 
Clinton Assault Allegation
An Arkansas nursing home executive, Juanita Broaddrick, discussed her allegation that President Clinton sexually assaulted her in a hotel room in 1978. President Clinton's personal lawyer, David Kendall, has strenuously denied the charge. A16
 
G.O.P. Uncertainty on Taxes
Republicans appeared uncertain over what kind of tax-cut policy they would offer the public, as House leaders backed off their earlier support for a 10 percent across-the-board cut and the Senate began mulling a budget blueprint that could cut tax rates by as much as 15 percent phased in over the next decade. A16
 
Buchanan Set to Try Again
Patrick J. Buchanan is preparing a third bid for the White House in 2000, several close associates said. CNN announced that he had been granted a leave as co-host of the program, "Crossfire." A14
 
The chairman of the Republican Party delivered a stern lecture to prospective Presidential candidates in 2000, warning that he would publicly rebuke any contender who personally attacked another Republican. A14
 
Cost of 2000 Census Rises
The Census Bureau has calculated that the Supreme Court ruling restricting the use of statistical sampling would force it to spend about $2 billion more than the $5 billion that was originally planned for the 2000 census, a senior Census Bureau official said. A17
 
Conviction in Dragging Death
A jury in Jasper, Tex., found John William King, a 24-year-old white man, guilty of capital murder for dragging a black man, James Byrd Jr., to his death behind a pickup truck last year. Jurors then quickly began hearing evidence on whether Mr. King should be sentenced to death or life imprisonment. Mr. King is the first of three white men charged in the case to go to trial. A1
 
A Public Perception of Injustice
Nearly half of the public thinks the legal system treats minorities and the poor unfairly, an American Bar Association survey indicated. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Mandatory Summer School For Some Lagging Students
Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew said he would make summer school mandatory this year for third, sixth and eighth graders who did poorly on New York's citywide reading and math tests and in their courses. A1
 
Prosecutor's Husband Indicted
The husband of Jeanine Pirro, the District Attorney of Westchester County, was indicted on Federal charges of hiding more than $1 million in income. The indictment clouds the political future of Ms. Pirro. B1
 
Home Sought for Jet Wreckage
The National Transportation Safety Board will start looking for a private group to build a hangar to house the wreckage of the 747 that now costs $4.5 million a year to store. B1
 
Two Men Shot Dead in Bronx
According to police, Arvin Collins shot a man for looking at him the wrong way on a Bronx sidewalk, and, a few minutes later, shot another for riding his bicycle too slowly. B3
 
Fewer Officers on the Beat
City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone expressed concerns about the deployment of police officers after releasing statistics showing that the number of uniformed officers assigned to neighborhood precincts dropped in the last two years as antidrug operations were bolstered. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B7
 
ARTS E1-10
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
EDUCATION B9
 
Principal Shortage Foreseen
City schools face a growing shortage of principals, partly driven by competition from higher-paying suburbs, an advocacy group reported. B9
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-21
 
Fed Chairman Talks of Balance
Alan Greenspan described the risks to the nation's long run of prosperity as balanced between the possibility of too much growth rekindling inflation and the threat of a stock market drop or further global shocks. C1
 
Blair Dangles the Euro
Prime Minister Tony Blair offered Parliament a tentative schedule for joining Europe's single currency, between 2002 and 2005, provided the British people agree and the economic terms are considered right. C1
 
Information Technology
A Presidential advisory committee plans to recommend that Federal financing for advanced research in the field of information technology be doubled over the next five years. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES C22
 
Bessie Cohen
A former seamstress who survived the Triangle Shirtwaist fire in 1911 in New York, in which 146 of her co-workers perished, she was 107. C22
 
DINING F1-9
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Overkill on drunken driving; peace on hold in Kosovo; America's amazing economy; an Oscar protest.
Columns: Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather A18
 
Public Lives B2
 
TV Listings E9
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%); CHINA (92%); TURKEY (92%); LEBANON (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); KENYA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (77%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%); CHINA (92%); TURKEY (92%); LEBANON (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); KENYA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PEACE PROCESS (92%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INSPECTIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ARMIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (76%); AVALANCHES (75%); TREASON (73%); CAPITAL CRIMES (73%); CANNABIS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); ESPIONAGE (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (64%); DRUG POLICY (64%); AIDS & HIV (63%); JUDGES (61%); CANCER (60%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); FIDEL CASTRO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



545 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: For Kurds, History Isn't an Obstacle

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Redrawing the Mideast Map" (Op-Ed, Feb. 21): The way forward for the Kurds (and everyone else) in Turkey must involve civil rights of free speech and association. Local autonomy has been discussed, and needs to be pursued further in the Parliament. 
 Part of the trouble stems from the lack of livelihood in the Kurdish parts of the Southeast, where the economy was ruined by the embargo on trade with Iraq.
There are many law-abiding Kurds who have never supported the Kurdistan Workers Party who want to live with dignity (cultural and otherwise) in their country. They are active in every walk of Turkish life from the highest levels of politics to industry, business and entertainment.
 
NUR YALMAN
Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 22, 1999
 
The writer is a professor of social anthropology, Harvard University.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: TURKEY (93%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY; IRAQ; TURKEY (93%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: KURDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: YALMAN, NUR (PROF) MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



546 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Federal Budget Tricks

 BODY:

To the Editor:
President Clinton's plan to pay off the external Federal debt while increasing internal debt is facetious (Economic Scene, Feb. 18). Let's say you have $1,000, and your monthly rent is $1,000. You have two checking accounts, one earmarked for rent, the other for entertainment. You deposit $1,000 into the rent account, and then you write yourself a check for $1,000 and deposit it into the entertainment account. You spend the $1,000 in the entertainment account. The rent comes due. You have no money in either account, so how do you pay the rent? 
 Social Security is rent: it's going to come due and we'd better have the money to pay it. Everything else in the Federal budget is entertainment.
 
GERRY CONWAY
Sherman Oaks, Calif., Feb. 18, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (71%); 

PERSON: CONWAY, GERRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



547 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Daley Wins Third Term as Chicago Mayor

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 23

 BODY:
Mayor Richard M. Daley easily extended his family's political dynasty tonight, defeating Representative Bobby L. Rush to win a third full term.
Mr. Daley won on the strength of a booming local economy, a highly publicized school overhaul and sweeping efforts to give the city a facelift. 
 With 93 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Daley had 401,164 votes, or 73 percent, and Mr. Rush, a four-term Congressman and former Black Panther, had 151,014, or 27 percent. Mr. Daley needed 50 percent to avoid a runoff with Mr. Rush, a fellow Democrat.
Mr. Daley was backed by some of the city's most powerful black politicians, despite Mr. Rush's assertions that the Mayor was mainly concerned with beautifying downtown and neglected poorer neighborhoods.
Mr. Daley, 52, first elected in 1989, is the son of Richard J. Daley, who was Mayor of Chicago for 21 years. Mr. Rush, 52, represents a mostly black, South Side district. He was a Black Panther leader in the 1960's but joined the mainstream and was a Chicago alderman.
While Mr. Daley pointed to his education campaign as a major achievement, declaring schools "the heart and soul of Chicago," Mr. Rush said it was a flop, noting that the dropout rate remained 50 percent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION RESULTS MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); 

PERSON: DALEY, RICHARD M (MAYOR); RUSH, BOBBY L (REPR) BOBBY L RUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999



548 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 6; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Supple Curves From a Master's Hand

BYLINE: By LIZ SEYMOUR

DATELINE: MILTON, N.C.

 BODY:
NEARLY 10 years after a brush fire reduced the historic Union Tavern to a roofless shell, a determined committee is slowly raising money to repair it and convert it into a museum devoted to Thomas Day, a black cabinetmaker who worked here before the Civil War.
Born free in Virginia in 1801, Day walked a precarious line all his life. Despite laws limiting the rights of free blacks, he established a successful business in North Carolina, owned stock in a local bank, trained white apprentices (and owned black slaves, himself), and numbered among his customers North Carolina's most prominent citizens, including the Governor, David S. Reid. 
 Today, worshipers at the Milton Presbyterian Church, a snug brick building that dates to 1837, still sit in pews designed and constructed by Day, who according to local legend donated them on the condition that he and his family be allowed to sit downstairs with the white parishioners.
In 1830, when he married a free black woman from Virginia, the North Carolina General Assembly voted to make an exception to its law that barred free blacks from taking up residence in the state. She joined Day here in Milton, a small town on the Virginia line, and they had three children, who went to school in Wilbraham, Mass.
In 1848, Day purchased the Union Tavern, a Federal-style building erected in 1815, and converted the upstairs into a living space and the downstairs into a showroom, with a workshop out back. Though Day drew inspiration in his cabinetry from contemporary pattern books, his work has a distinct personality that scholars have learned to recognize, even in unsigned pieces. Often massive in scale and decorated with exaggerated "S" curves, bulbous turnings and exuberant cutouts, Day's wardrobes, sideboards, beds, chairs and secretaries have a forthright dignity that is hard to ignore. Day's architectural carvings, especially his sinuous newel posts and ornamental mantels, border on folk sculpture. The most famous mantel, in a home near here, is decorated with two frowning mahogany faces.
By the late 1850's, however, increasingly restrictive legislation on the activities of blacks in the state, combined with a national financial panic, undermined Day's business. He died bankrupt in 1860 or 1861, though a son of his followed him into the cabinetry business.
There are collectors, particularly local figures, who have always prized Day's work. But it was a 1994 children's book, "Master of Mahogany: Tom Day, Free Black Cabinetmaker" (Scribner, $15.95), by Mary E. Lyons, that drew larger attention to the man. A furniture company, Craftique, learned about Day's work through the book, and in 1996 it licensed reproductions of some of the 30 Day pieces owned by the North Carolina Museum of History, in Raleigh. Craftique owns the copyright to the Thomas Day name (and pays a small royalty to the tavern here, to support the renovation); subsequent reproductions, like the ones that Derrick Joshua Beard is making, are sold under another name, in this case, the Sankofa North Carolina Heritage Collection.
Residents of this tiny town of 200 believe that the restoration of Day's old showroom and workshop in the Union Tavern will complete the renewal of interest in his life. Through eggnog socials, bingo parties and pancake breakfasts -- and state and private grants -- the town has raised $500,000 to stabilize the tavern.
"I don't know how much more it's going to take" to finish the restoration, said Marian Thomas, the president of the Thomas Day House/ Union Tavern Restoration group, which is overseeing the project. The committee's hope is that a national celebrity may become involved in the project. Those interested in joining the group, for a $10 annual fee, can reach her at Box 1996, Milton, N.C. 27305-1996; telephone (336) 234-7215.
"Each year that you wait, everything gets more expensive," Mrs. Thomas said, sitting in a wing chair in the living room of her 209-year-old house, near a secretary that she believes is by Thomas Day. "But we just keep moving forward."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: RANGE -- Day's work includes a fine side chair, inset top, and a bold newel post. SINUOUS -- Thomas Day's signature is the hand-carved curve, as in the secretary above left, owned by Derrick Joshua Beard, and in the church pews in Milton, N.C. (Derrick J. Beard Collection)(Photographs by the North Carolina Museum of History)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: THOMAS DAY HOUSE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: THOMAS DAY HOUSE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FUNDRAISING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CHILDREN (87%); HISTORY (78%); SCULPTURE (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); SLAVERY (72%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (71%); COPYRIGHT (71%); FURNITURE STORES (69%); 

PERSON: THOMAS DAY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



549 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 9; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Will the 2000 Bug Gobble the Veggies?

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
TOM JOHNS, the president of the Territorial Seed Company, has no idea whether the millennium bug, a k a Y2K, is "overblown fiction or a real problem." But that did not stop him from warning about possible Y2K disruptions in the catalogue that Territorial recently mailed to 650,000 gardeners.
In the catalogue, Mr. Johns reminded his customers of the alarm some gardeners felt last year after the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine announced that broccoli sprouts contain high levels of sulforaphane, a cancer-fighting compound. He said the announcement set off such a frenzy that worldwide supplies of open-pollinated varieties of broccoli seed that reproduce similar plants generation after generation were wiped out in 48 hours. 
 "We should all learn from that experience," Mr. Johns concluded. "If in fact the millennium computer bug turns out to be real, I truly believe the world's seed supply available to home gardeners will be gone just as fast."
Competitors say Mr. Johns is sowing Y2K hype, but there is no denying that he is harvesting a once-in-a-lifetime marketing opportunity. Polls reveal that tens of millions of Y2K-leery Americans fear that computers could break down frequently enough during the transition to the year 2000 to cause big disruptions in the global economy. Hard-core alarmists fear there will be limited supplies of seed for next year's crops. But the ranks of the worried also include a larger group of gardeners who plan to grow vegetables this year as a hedge against breakdowns in deliveries of food to stores.
Territorial's response is the $99.50 Millennium Victory Garden, a mix of 47 vegetable seeds. It is the most popular item in the new catalogue, Mr. Johns said, and on a pace to become the most popular offering in the company's 20-year history.
To some seed dealers, Territorial's assertions are farfetched at best. Lana Baker, the vegetable seed specialist at Molbak's Seattle Garden Center in Washington, which claims to stock the largest variety of vegetable seeds of any retailer in the world, said Molbak's never had a problem getting the type of broccoli seed that Mr. Johns contends was wiped out. Besides, she said, "it's extreme to suggest that people will run out of seed because of Y2K."
In any case, Molbak's sales are up, too, as are those of industry giants like W. Atlee Burpee in Warminster, Pa. Some vendors, like the Ferry-Morse Seed Company in Fulton, Ky., say that sales have not yet jumped significantly but that salespeople in the field are reporting requests from retailers to be ready to ship extra seed quickly.
"We never thought people would plant more vegetables as a hedge against the year 2000, but we are definitely seeing a millennium effect," said Donald Zeidler, direct marketing manager at Burpee.
Others on the home-grown food chain are also feeling the effects. The Wisconsin Aluminum Foundry in Manitowoc, Wis., a maker of pressurized home-canning equipment, has seen its sales double in the last year.
If the demand lasts, vegetable gardening may reverse a long-term decline. Just over 20 percent of American households grew vegetables in 1997, according to the National Gardening Association in Burlington, Vt. That's down from 49 percent in 1975, the post-World War II peak, when many Americans were growing food in response to inflation in food prices.
Although flower gardening remains popular, more and more growers of edible gardens have thrown in their trowels. As more homemakers moved into the job market and wide varieties of relatively inexpensive vegetables became available year round, vegetable gardeners found it hard to justify the investment -- until the year 2000 threat arose.
"We had become spoiled shopping at the local supermarket," said Don Landis, 50, an airline cargo handler who lives in suburban Seattle. But concerns over the year 2000 bug convinced him and his wife to return to backyard vegetable gardening for the first time in 10 years. "If this turns out to be a non-event," he said, "the food banks will all be overflowing and we'll have a good story to tell our grandchildren."
In Escondido, Calif., Patrick D'Acre, 43, a technology consultant, plans to turn a steep hillside behind his home into a terraced fruit-tree orchard and vegetable garden and to chronicle its development on his Web site, www.y2kupdatereport.com.
"It will be therapeutic, practical and timely," said Mr. D'Acre, who describes himself as an on-again, off-again gardener.
But there are also newcomers. "We get people every day who've never gardened before," said Mr. Johns, who included enough seed in the Victory Garden packages to build in some redundancy for beginners' inevitable failures. "We're trying to reach people who may not normally be gardeners."
The seeds that are most in demand are open-pollinated varieties, as opposed to commercial hybrids, and especially the "heirloom" plants that have been passed over the garden fence for generations. Open-pollinated plants -- those pollinated by natural means, like visits by insects -- have been ignored by most commercial growers and many gardeners because they are often more susceptible to insects or disease than commercial hybrids and, unless conditions are perfect, may not produce as much food. In some crops, like tomatoes, the fruits of the open-pollinated plants are tastier than the hybrids but not firm enough to be shipped long distances and handled in stores.
What appeals to millennium bug alarmists, though, is that seed saved from one year's crop of open-pollinated plants will produce very similar plants in future generations. Seeds saved from commercial hybrids rarely produce plants as productive or vigorous as the parent, so gardeners must buy new hybrid seed each year.
There is more to heirloom seed sales than Y2K. They have long been favored by gardeners for their taste and for the stories linked with their history. Now, they are also attracting those who are concerned about the spread of genetic engineering into the food chain and the concentration of control over hybrid seeds in fewer and fewer corporations. The heirloom movement is so strong that 1,900 of the 7,313 varieties available were added in just the last four years, according to the Seed Savers Exchange, a nonprofit group in Decorah, Iowa, dedicated to preserving seed diversity.
Still, seed marketers say there is no doubt that the possibility of computer disruptions next year is increasing interest in such seeds and food gardening in general. As Ms. Baker explained, "Everybody's trying to be a little more prepared without looking like the crazies running into the woods with guns."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Jo Teodorescu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEED CO LTD (JAPAN) (58%); W ATLEE BURPEE CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (93%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GARDENING (90%); RETAILERS (88%); SALES FIGURES (78%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (78%); SALES FORCE (76%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); RETAIL SALES (68%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (57%); CANCER (55%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



550 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC EYE;
The Mailbox As Fortress

BYLINE: By FRED BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: RIDGEFIELD, Conn.

 BODY:
MONICA BRUNEN and her husband, Cal, live here in the kind of perfectly detailed Federal-style mansion that could grace the cover of a magazine. So what's that bulbous green thing sprouting like a mushroom at the foot of their driveway?
"We were tired of the mailbox getting knocked over and the rain getting inside," said Mrs. Brunen, who replaced the family's metal-and-post model with a one-piece, dent-proof, leak-proof plastic mailbox big enough to hold a dozen magazines (no rolling!) and strong enough to stand up to a Range Rover's nudge. 
 "We have one friend who's a purist, and he doesn't like it," she said. "Everyone else thinks it looks great."
That solid citizen of the countryside, the sheet-metal box, "U.S. Mail" embossed on its front door, is suddenly threatened with extinction. For nearly 90 years, it's been a punctuation mark alongside America's roadways. "One of the most beautiful things in the world," said James H. Bruns, the director of the National Postal Museum in Washington, "is a row of metal boxes on posts, stretching out on a winding road as far as the eye can see."
On today's winding road, plastic boxes stand out like Humvees in a soapbox derby. "They're big and ugly," said a Home Depot salesman, who would not give his name. That's how customers identify them, or as he put it: "They come in and say, 'Do you have any of those big, ugly mailboxes?' and I know just what to show them."
The one-piece plastic box -- the brainchild of John Sinchok, a product designer who wanted his magazines to arrive flat -- offers convenience: front and back doors with magnetic latches, separate newspaper compartments and enough room for the latest issues of Wallpaper or Fine Woodworking.
What it can't offer is charm. Compared to the sheet-metal "tunnel" designed by a post office engineer, Roy J. Jorolemon, in 1915, the plastic box is graceless -- an echo of that other boxy gotta-buy, the minivan. With its top-heavy profile and color-saturated skin, the box's resemblance to a sore thumb is more than metaphoric.
Of course, there have always been other kinds of boxes. The poor have relied on assemblages of scrap lumber and cedar shingles, while the rich commissioned elaborate wrought iron or masonry models. But until now the humble metal box had held its own against newcomers. A Quonset hut on a stick, it seemed to satisfy Arizona ranchers and Kennebunkport swells alike.
And then came roto-molding, a technology in search of a problem. It was about six years ago that Mr. Sinchok first noticed that his mailbox in Macedonia, Ohio, left a lot to be desired. "I hate when my magazines arrive rolled up," he said, recalling the "eureka!" moment.
Mr. Sinchok, now the design director for Step2, a roto-molder in Streetsville, Ohio, spent a couple of weeks building models of a box with an extrawide compartment. After receiving post office approval, Step2, which was founded by defectors from Little Tykes, a toy company acquired by Rubbermaid, introduced the box in five colors. The company is still the industry leader, despite inroads by Rubbermaid and others. Hundreds of thousands of boxes have been sold at $50 to $70 apiece (posts are extra), mostly through chain stores or over the Internet.
Size is a draw. "My mother sent a pound of candy, and the package was too big for my old mailbox, so the mailman left it out on the front steps," said Kathy Crane, who was mailbox-shopping in a Connecticut hardware store last week. "The upshot was, the dog ate the candy, and the kids were crushed. So I needed something bigger."
Candy lovers aside, the biggest fans of mega-mailboxes are people who have their hands in them all day. "People in this town get a heck of a lot of mail," said Eddie Powers, a carrier in Ridgefield. Too often, he has to "stop the truck, get out, and bend the mail with two hands to squeeze it in," he said. The new box is ready for easy sliding and has no sharp edges, nailheads or screws to damage mail or fingers.
The perfect box also had to be vandal-proof. In a trend some people trace to the 1986 coming-of-age movie "Stand by Me," mailbox-bashing has become a popular suburban pastime. Then there were the snowplows and errant tree-trimmers that make the mailboxes sitting ducks. "We've had big guys at the plant test the new boxes," Mr. Sinchok said, "and nothing happens."
But their greatest advance may be the "why didn't someone think of that before?" back door. Frank Healey of Ridgefield remembers the time his mother was sideswiped by a car's side-view mirror as she was reaching for the mail; she broke her elbow and needed 15 stitches.
Unlike injection molds, which can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars and are designed to spit out precision products in seconds, a roto-mold is a kind of low-tech, low-cost, high-tolerance metal mold that spins on a giant arm. It's the spinning that distributes the resin, a powder heated to the consistency of maple syrup, through the mold -- often imperfectly. In the suburbs, roto-molded swing sets and tricycles are increasingly common sights. In cities, newspaper boxes now bear the genre's telltale bulges.
Robert Czechowicz, the director of consumer marketing for Rubbermaid in Wooster, Ohio, said, "There's a love-hate relationship with the thing."
At Gail's Station House, a gingham-and-french-toast kind of place in Ridgefield, a woman who refused to be identified said, "I saw one in my neighborhood for the first time, and I almost ran it down," Local critics speak of a cartoony look, like the Flintstones but out of focus.
Probably there were some who didn't like Mr. Jorolemon's metal box when it first came out. Its origins lay in the creation of Rural Free Delivery in 1896, a centerpiece of the nation's turn-of-the-century economic modernization.
Initially, Mr. Bruns of the National Postal Museum said, "farmers didn't believe R.F.D. would last." He continued: "So they weren't going to invest money in mailboxes. Instead, they used nail crates and bushels." As R.F.D. caught on, dozens of manufacturers began making real boxes, often paying mailmen commissions for selling them, an illegal and short-lived practice, Mr. Bruns said.
By 1915, the post office, hoping for uniformity, began licensing Mr. Jorolemon's design to manufacturers free of charge. It is still the most common type of mailbox. Its appeal seems to rest, in part, on the individuality it permits despite mass production -- the height, angle and demeanor of the post, the placement of numbers and letters, even the shape of the dents, like clefts in a chin, give metal boxes personality. That they sell for about $10 or less is a tribute to the simplicity of their design.
Still, Americans seem to like their home products high-tech. And so, although it sells for five to seven times as much as its predecessor, the plastic box is probably here to stay. New features are already being planned. "They're holding newspapers and mail quite well," Mr. Sinchok said. "The question is, 'What else could they be holding?' "
How about a freezer compartment, for those steaks you just ordered by mail?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: NO MAGAZINE SCRUNCHING -- Monica Brunen's giant mailbox. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. F2); The maxi-mailbox has a useful back door.
(Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARIZONA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (51%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



551 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Sweating in Saipan

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Feb. 20 news article on the use of foreign contract workers in the Northern Mariana Islands, a United States commonwealth, stresses that many of the workers say they come to Saipan voluntarily and that they want to work every day. Of course they do, but that should not override the fundamental unfairness of guest worker programs. The conditions associated with these programs establish a power imbalance that grants unusual control over the labor force to employers. 
 Given their economic motivation, guest workers generally do not wish to take action that might cause them to be fired and deported. Consequently, most are too afraid to challenge unfair or illegal employment practices or to organize labor unions. In addition, they never gain the right to vote or other democratic rights. If we need added workers in the United States, we should invite them not as guest workers but as immigrants with the opportunity to become citizens.
 
BRUCE GOLDSTEIN
Washington, Feb. 24, 1999
 
The writer is co-executive director of the Farmworker Justice Fund. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: SAIPAN, NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAIPAN, NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); IMMIGRATION (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); CIVIL RIGHTS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); FARM LABOR (70%); CITIZENSHIP (51%); 

PERSON: JUSTICE FUND (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



552 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

POUND SLIDES. The dollar surged against the British pound on optimism the strong United States economy would continue to outperform those in Europe. In New York, the pound traded at $1.5962, down from $1.6134.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the British pound to the dollar, since Aug, 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (75%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BRITISH POUND (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



553 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
So Govern, Already

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Nobody doubts President Clinton's ability to run a permanent campaign: his interminable Rose Garden dispensation of goodies, radio infomercials on Saturdays, photo-op forays to hospitals and schools, and choreographed junkets display nonstop activity and identify him personally with the concerns of interest groups.
It works. The media get snack food for thought and the people are incessantly reminded that their President is visibly right there on the job. 
 And yet, after six years of munching these sound-bite hors d'oeuvres, a hunger grows for meat and potatoes. Now that we have granted Mr. Clinton's oft-expressed wish to "move on," perhaps we can persuade him to move on from permanent campaigning to transient governing.
Long neglected in our governance is the Presidential demonstration of wide-ranging competence. That executive reach used to be displayed at the once-traditional formal news conference. Reporters ask some 20 questions; the President, who has prepared answers for four times that many, fields them adroitly. The people are better informed, and whether agreeing or not, feel secure that the top man knows his stuff.
But a greater purpose is served. To prepare for "question time," as parliamentarians call it, a President's entire Administration is forced to make foreign and domestic policy decisions. This discipline creates agonized, late-night sessions throughout the bureaucracy. That's the serious business of running the country.
But since he burdened the nation with the Lewinsky affair, Clinton has been in relative seclusion; the last formal East Room news conference was 10 months ago. The White House can point to other "press opportunities," mainly at meetings with foreign leaders, but nowhere near the 45 occasions of Clinton's first year, including 18 East Room sessions.
He had excuses. His lawyers would not let him; the press corps would focus on the scandal. But because his hibernation from access coincided with a rise in his job approval rating, the tradition of regular questioning has been called into question.
Availability is risky, his advisers say, and if not necessary for public support -- who needs it? As a result, the governing function that underlies preparation for wide-ranging questioning has atrophied.
Another useful tool for governing well has been all but abandoned: the thoughtful speech. Not the hourlong State of the Union blockbuster that touches on everything and deals with nothing. Not the four-minute radio spot that urges reduced class sizes.
Missing are the serious addresses that will get little coverage but will show that the Administration has an economic philosophy or an intellectual framework for its foreign policy.
Whoops! I just used the dread "I"
word, and every spinmeister knows that intellectual stuff butters no polling parsnips. But reviving the national radio address, recalling F.D.R.'s usage, was my baby back in the campaign of 1968. As the press was rolling its eyes at the Nixon stump speech, we astounded eggheaded critics with a weekly series of substantive, 20-minute radio speeches. Drove 'em batty, having to slog through philosophical rumination trying to find a lead.
But such mental ferment and internal debate helps the man at the top figure out where he wants to take the nation. Clinton, the reputed policy wonk, is presumably capable of this.
On Kosovo, we do not need a nibble about NATO solidarity, or four minutes of dire warnings about rubbery deadlines. We need someone to explain which lessons drawn from Bosnia apply to Serbia.
What is our military role in a Europe no longer faced with a Soviet threat? What does America expect from NATO outside Europe? When does a confirmed multilateralist go it alone? What sacrifices in blood and treasure are we prepared to make to help Palestinians and Kurds and Kosovars and African tribes achieve -- what? Independence? Autonomy? Unity? Are all civil wars intolerable?
Maybe sober analysis would be met with a national yawn, or comes too late for the present White House residents as they devise their exeunt strategies. But we can hope future Presidents will restore the traditions of answering and explicating that will help them think more deeply and govern more effectively. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDIA EDGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INFOMERCIALS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



554 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Greenspan Says Fed Policy Won't Affect Russian Crisis

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Insisting that Federal Reserve policy must stay focused on the American economy whatever the fallout abroad, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, nevertheless argued yesterday that Russia would be neither helped nor hurt by Fed actions in coming months.
"It's not conceivable to me that anything we, the Federal Reserve, could do in either raising or lowering interest rates would have any material effect on the Russian financial system," Mr. Greenspan told the House Banking Committee. Russia's problems are "so extreme," he said, that they are beyond being affected by a quarter-point or half-point change in American interest rates, or a worldwide change in rates. 
 In the second day of his twice-yearly Humphrey-Hawkins testimony, he repeated almost verbatim the written presentation that he had read to the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday. That testimony contained the slightest hint that the Fed, in lowering rates last fall, had perhaps let them get too low. The Fed, Mr. Greenspan said, must continue to evaluate "whether the full extent of the policy easings undertaken last fall to address the seizing-up of financial markets remains appropriate as those disturbances abate."
The bond market responded by pushing up long-term rates, which rose by nearly one-tenth of a percentage point yesterday. It did so in the belief that Mr. Greenspan had just served notice that the Fed is "more willing to go on the tightening side than it was a month or two ago," said David Jones, the chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a Wall Street firm.
In the question-and-answer period with House committee members, Mr. Greenspan found himself repeating that while the Fed must take into consideration the impact on the American economy of global problems, Fed policy makers should not manipulate interest rates for the benefit of other countries. He was asked, for example, whether he favored an Argentine proposal to adopt the American dollar as its currency.
The Argentines must make that decision, Mr. Greenspan said, but if they were to get into trouble -- if there were a recession or bank failures in that country -- then Argentina could not turn to the Fed for help in the form of lower interest rates or dollar loans for bank bailouts. "We would like them to be prosperous," Mr. Greenspan said, adding: "But lender of last resort? No."
Mr. Greenspan distanced himself from the Brazilian effort to peg its currency to the dollar -- an attempt that failed. As he has in the past, he favored floating rates as a more practical solution for any country.

 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK; RUSSIA US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (76%); CURRENCIES (71%); BOND MARKETS (66%); EXTERNAL DEBT (66%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



555 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Antitrust case agai nst Intel stresses customers, not rivals.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein

 BODY:
THERE is at least one way in which the Federal Trade Commission's antitrust case against Intel, which goes to trial next month, is similar to the Justice Department's suit against Microsoft. Both cases focus on commonplace business practices that the Government says are O.K. when practiced by ordinary companies but not when practiced by monopolists.
In Microsoft's case, the targeted practices are the ordinary stuff of antitrust suits -- tying the sale of two products together and entering exclusive contracts that cut off Microsoft's main rival, Netscape Communications, from customers.
But the case against Intel is doubly peculiar. It focuses on Intel's alleged mistreatment of customers rather than of rivals. And the F.T.C. cites no actual harm to competition from Intel's behavior, no instance of impeding innovation or thwarting specific rivals. To win, some experts say, the commission will need to persuade the courts to set forth new principles of antitrust enforcement. 
 The case against Intel "is intellectually coherent," says William Kovacic of the George Washington University Law School. "But it is also fragile, prone to destruct on key matters of fact."
Intel sells about 80 percent of general purpose microprocessors -- the Pentium "brains" of personal computers. The commission focuses on three manufacturers that buy Intel chips -- Compaq Computer, Intergraph and Digital Equipment -- because they were also engaged in patent disputes with Intel. Neither Compaq nor Intergraph sells microprocessors in competition with Intel. Digital does produce a microprocessor for high-powered computers, but the commission has not argued that Intel's behavior stymied Digital's capacity to sell its chip.
The commission says that Intel used its chokehold over the supply of Pentium chips to wrestle patent rights away from the three.
Intergraph held patents that Intel wanted to use without compensation. Digital and Compaq accused Intel of violating various patents that they held. Intel, the F.T.C. says, bludgeoned each into submission by withholding proprietary information that Intel voluntarily issues to computer manufacturers before releasing a new-generation chip. Manufacturers use the vital information to get a head start redesigning their computers to take maximum advantage of the new chip. A manufacturer shut off from the prerelease information would be late to market its souped-up models.
Intel admits to the hardball tactics. But, it asks, so what? Its customers were not important rivals. So where is the antitrust issue? Besides, Intel says, its major competitors in the production of microprocessors -- Advanced Micro Devices, National Semiconductor's Cyrix unit and I.B.M. -- are not customers for its chips and do not get its prerelease information. So they would be immune from the tactics cited by the commission. So where, Intel asks, has the consumer been harmed?
The commission admits that there was little direct competition between the three computer manufacturers and Intel. But it says Intel's tactics could still discourage computer manufacturers from taking the chip company on in the future. Who, after witnessing what Intel did to Compaq and friends, would lend anybody the hundreds of millions of dollars, if not billions, to take on Intel? The route might be circuitous, the commission says, but Intel's bullying tactics over patent rights could diminish innovation in the market for microprocessors.
Eleanor Fox of New York University School of Law says that the commission appears to want to go after coercive uses of monopoly power "even if the effect is to whittle down the domain of patent rights." Beginning under the Reagan Administration in the early 1980's, "the courts moved toward protecting the monopolist's right to use its patent rights to exclude competitors. The commission's suit may herald a movement in the other direction."
Mr. Kovacic says the case poses the interesting question: When is a monopolist obligated to do business with other companies, even those that are not direct competitors? The F.T.C.'s answer, Mr. Kovacic says, appears to range beyond what courts have explicitly decided on the past -- telling "dominant firms not to break off contracts unless they can point to reasons that help consumers." The principle, Mr. Kovacic points out, could dampen monopolists' enthusiasm to enter even noncoercive deals. And in the case of Intel it might not prove a winning argument.
Intel argues it had clear justification for its actions. It had no obligation to share with plaintiffs proprietary information that they could use to amend their patent applications or strengthen their lawsuit. Besides, by using its bargaining power to knock down licensing fees for use of the manufacturers' patents, Intel reduced its costs, making it possible to cut consumer prices more.
Apart from all this, there is one way in which the Microsoft and Intel cases are profoundly different. The Microsoft case has bogged down in disputes over simple facts and questions about the veracity of witnesses. In the Intel case, the basic facts are not in dispute.
Nor will there be reams of embarrassing E-mail, giving rise to quarrels over who knew what and when they knew it. Intel admits to its hardball tactics and is prepared to defend every one. That should make this an intriguing investigation about the future of antitrust enforcement rather than about which witnesses skirted the truth.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); AMD (NYSE) (55%); AMD (FRA) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (INTC) INTEL CORP (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (55%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (51%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP (INTC) FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST ACTIONS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (96%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); PATENTS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); PATENT LAW (88%); COMPUTER MAKERS (87%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LAWYERS (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); SEMICONDUCTORS (66%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM KOVACIC (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



556 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES

BYLINE: By CHARLES STRUM with Nina Siegal and C. J. Satterwhite

 BODY:

Like a Super Bowl For High Society
"I haven't heard of people getting together to watch television since 'Brideshead Revisited,' " ANTHONY J. DREXEL BIDDLE 3d said the other day. He was referring to the two-part CBS movie "Too Rich: the Secret Life of Doris Duke," about the tobacco heiress. 
 Mr. Biddle, whose father was once married to Miss Duke's first cousin, said the only inaccuracy he had spotted in the first episode, on Sunday, was that "the real Duke Kahanamoku" -- a swimming champion and one of Miss Duke's lovers -- "is about twice as big as the actor. The guy is huge. You know, he became the Sheriff of Honolulu." In Miss Duke's circle, at least, it was a must-see.
MAI HALLINGBY and her daughter CORNELIA ERCKLENTZ, a sales associate at Bloomberg, saw the first segment at Mrs. Hallingby's apartment.
"We stayed home especially to watch," Mrs. Hallingby said. "I would have taped it if I'd gone out." She said she especially liked the actor Michael Nouri, who played Porfirio Rubirosa, Miss Duke's second husband.
KAY MEEHAN, long a presence on the New York social scene, admitted: "Actually I was on the phone, and got off to see the last half. I didn't know Doris well, but I remember seeing her at parties in New York, and she seemed perfectly normal. I think there was a lot more to her life than what was portrayed."
Miss Duke died at age 80 in 1993, naming her butler as executor as well as leaving him a small fortune.
"She had different stages, and granted the last part of her life wasn't particularly happy," Mrs. Meehan said. "Of course the show was soap opera. But we're all suckers for it."
 
Chefs to Make A P. S. Proud
The paintings on the walls were by Jean Dubuffet and Milton Avery, the five-course dinner, with a different wine complementing each entree, was by ROCCO DISPIRITO, the chef of Union Pacific, and the table conversation lingered between the Hamptons and private summer camp. But the theme of the $600- to $10,000-a-plate dinner at the Central Park West home of LAURIE TISCH SUSSMAN was the revitalization of the city's low-performing schools through arts education.
Over beef short rib with truffled taro root, MARTHA RODRIGUEZ TORREZ, the principal of Public School 156 in Brownsville, Brooklyn, described how the percentage of her students reading at or above grade level was boosted to 40.9 percent from 17 percent with the help of arts programming financed by the Center for Arts Education. MAXWELL L. ANDERSON, the new director of the Whitney Museum, looked on as JUDITH RIZZO, the Board of Education's deputy chancellor for curriculum, said the $36 million provided by the center over five years (jump-started by a $12 million donation by the New York City Annenberg Challenge for Arts Education) has been responsible for restoring arts to 800 of the city's 1,100 public schools.
Nine benefit dinners for the center, taking place over three nights this week, were prepared by some of the city's noted chefs, like JEAN-MICHEL BERGOUGNOX of L'Absinthe and BILL TELEPAN of JUdson Grill, and held at the homes of such arts benefactors as KITTY CARLISLE HART, chairwoman emeritus of the New York State Council on the Arts, and SCHUYLER G. CHAPIN, Commissioner of the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs. The dinners raised $170,000.
Ms. Hart confessed that she learned everything she knows about the arts by visiting museums and opera houses in Europe as a child, because her mother "wanted her to make a brilliant marriage." She said she offered her home because, "the arts have been so good to me, they've made my life," adding, "I've been so happy and I'd like every child in the state of New York to have that same experience."
 CHARLES STRUM with Nina Siegal and C. J. Satterwhite
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: DORIS DUKE; KITTY CARLISLE HART

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (52%); NEW YORK STATE COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); PAINTING (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (60%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (60%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); SHERIFFS (54%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



557 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Philip Morris Plant Closing to Cost 1,400 Jobs

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

 BODY:
Reflecting the growing decline in domestic demand for its cigarettes, Philip Morris Inc. yesterday announced it was laying off 1,400 workers and closing a factory in Louisville, Ky.
The closing of the plant, which makes Marlboro, Virginia Slims, Benson & Hedges and other brands, will cost Philip Morris an estimated $200 million before taxes, mostly to cover the costs of severance pay, a company spokesman said. That translates to a decrease in earnings of about 5 cents a share in the first and second quarters of this year. 
 "It's a recognition that U.S. industry volumes will fall off sharply in the next few years, and this is an attempt by the company to maximize its margins," said Martin Feldman, an analyst for Salomon Smith Barney.
The plant, which Philip Morris acquired in 1944, is operating at only about half its capacity, said the company spokesman, Mike Pfeil. "Over time, a number of factors contributed to the decision to close this plant," he said. "One is that we have increased productivity at our other facilities. Another is technological advances. And finally, there are marketplace changes."
Consumption of cigarettes has been declining at a rate of 1 to 2 percent a year, Mr. Pfeil said. "We expect that the historic rate of decline will continue," he said, "and we believe the industry's rate of decline based on external factors could decline additionally."
Some workers at the Louisville plant will be offered jobs at Philip Morris plants in Richmond and in Cabarrus, N.C. All the manufacturing that took place in Louisville will be consolidated at the other two plants.
Price increases, combined with anti-smoking drives that are either planned or in progress, have contributed to a drop in demand for cigarettes, Mr. Feldman said.

 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (96%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (96%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (94%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (57%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COS (MO) ALTRIA GROUP INC (96%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (94%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); BENSON & HEDGES (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COS (MO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (57%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT CLOSINGS (92%); PLANT CLOSINGS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SMOKING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); 

PERSON: MIKE PFEIL (69%); MARTIN FELDMAN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



558 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Bond Prices Fall, Sending Stocks Lower

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Bond prices plunged for the second consecutive day yesterday, sending Treasury yields to their highest levels since August. The jump in interest rates also sent stocks sharply lower in the afternoon.
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, was the culprit again as his hint of an interest rate increase in testimony before Congress on Tuesday haunted bond investors another day. 
 Rising interest rates are a bad sign for stock investors at a time when most analysts think shares are already too expensive. "Equity prices are high enough to raise questions about whether shares are overvalued," Mr. Greenspan said in testimony yesterday and on Tuesday.
With the yield on the 30-year bond now at 5.51 percent, some analysts think the stock market is about 20 percent overvalued, which they believe could set off a market correction. And if rates move higher, the bond market will become more attractive as a less risky alternative investment, while the higher rates and the possibility of slower growth will undermine the outlook for corporate earnings and the stock market.
On the other hand, a market-led rise in interest rates could generally be positive if they do not get out of hand. They will make mortgages more expensive and raise the cost of other personal and business loans. But in the process, higher rates could help slow the economy by curbing home building and other activity. In addition, higher rates could dampen consumer spending, one of the strongest props of last year's nearly 4 percent growth, by putting the stock market on hold for a while.
All this would help the Fed deal with its biggest problem -- getting a slowdown in the economy that is enough to prevent the central bank from having to raise its short-term interest rate target to get the job done.
An engineered jump in interest rates by the Fed would have a much more damaging effect on the stock market because once the Fed acted, investors would be speculating that it would have to move again. A rate increase could also unsettle the rest of the world's much less stable financial markets.
"The Fed can let the market do the work itself," said Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist for Salomon Smith Barney. But Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, does not think interest rates are going to move high enough to do that. Even now, he said, long-term interest rates are below the 6 percent level before last fall's global financial crisis.
In the bond market yesterday, the selloff came in the afternoon after demand was disappointing during the Treasury's two-year note auction, although the yield jumped to 5.009 percent. Kevin Flanagan, money market economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said, "We have had a cautious and anxious environment since February." And Mr. Greenspan's hint at just the possibility of rate increase in testimony on Tuesday was enough to ignite a selloff. Mr. Flanagan said that Mr. Greenspan did nothing yesterday to backpedal from that hint.
In late bond trading, the price of the benchmark 30-year bond fell 1 5/32 , to 96 7/32 , while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, jumped to 5.51 percent from 5.43 percent on Tuesday. This was the highest yield since Aug. 20.
Most major stock gauges moved higher through nearly all of yesterday's session. But those gains were quickly erased when word filtered out about 2:30 P.M. that the Treasury's two-year note auction had not gone well.
"The bond vigilantes mugged the bull today," said Bryan Piskorowski, a market analyst at Prudential Securities. "We put in four hours of hard work that melted away when the results of the note auction were announced."
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 144.75 points, or 1.5 percent, to 9,399.67. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 17.77 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,253.41, while the Nasdaq index fell 36.97 points, or 1.6 percent, to 2,339.38. The Russell index of smaller-company stocks dropped 3.75 points, or nine-tenths of a percent, to 395.26.
The selloff in stocks erased a good chunk of the big gains recorded on Monday, leaving some analysts to note that stocks remain stuck in the relatively narrow trading range they have occupied for much of the last six weeks.
"The Standard & Poor's 500 index is stuck in a trading range of about 1,290 down to about 1,200," Mr. Piskorowski said. "Now that bonds are not in our corner anymore, we are not going to push higher."
Over the last several days, traders and analysts have worried that if bond yields move above 5.50 percent and stay there, portfolio managers may choose to move assets out of stocks and into fixed-income securities.
The late drop in stock prices suggests that did not happen yesterday because trading volume was far from robust. On the Big Board, 782 million shares changed hands. But analysts said the worries were not misplaced.
"The stock market is very fully priced," said Byron Wien, United States equity strategist at Morgan Stanley. "Interest rates need to move down for it to do well."
According to his calculations, the S.& P. 500-stock index is about 20 percent overvalued, Mr. Wien said, adding that the average has been distended by outsized gains in the top 50 or 100 stocks that make up the index.
"The rest of that index is probably undervalued," he said.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price . . . 99.983
High Yield . . .5.009%
Low Yield . . . 4.929%
Median Yield . . . 4.988%
Accepted at low price . . . 54%
Total applied for . . . $31,961,498
Accepted . . . $19,575,998
Noncompetitive . . . $1,163,618
Interest set at . . . 5
 
The two-year notes mature on Feb. 28, 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Feb. 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (52%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BOND MARKETS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



559 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Baltimore Leaders Sour on Entire Mayoral Field

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Feb. 23

 BODY:
It took scarcely the time needed to eat a Maryland crab cake for the would-be successors to line up once Baltimore's three-term Mayor, Kurt L. Schmoke, announced in December that he would not seek re-election this year.
The 37-year-old president of the City Council, Lawrence A. Bell 3d, is widely considered the front-runner among Democrats, whose field could swell to a half-dozen candidates or more by the June filing deadline. Baltimore is so heavily Democratic that the winner of the September primary is virtually assured of victory in November. 
 Mr. Bell's own assessment is that "it would be difficult for someone to come from nowhere" to beat him. But senior Baltimore Democrats fear that the urban rebirth achieved during 15 years under Mayor William Donald Schaefer and the next 12 under Mr. Schmoke would stall with the election of any of the current prospects, a field they see as distinctly lacking in vision and leadership.
"The array of candidates is not very pleasing to the senses for a lot of us," said Howard P. Rawlings, an influential Democratic state legislator who has represented parts of west Baltimore in the House of Delegates for 20 years. "Some of us are greatly disturbed about the caliber of candidates. It's a sad reflection on the quality of leadership in the city."
Mr. Rawlings's complaint is shared by Mr. Schaefer, who won two terms as Governor after serving as Mayor and now, at the age of 77, is beginning a four-year term as Maryland's chief tax collector. An unabashed booster of the city who has often been critical of Mr. Schmoke's leadership skills, Mr. Schaefer makes no effort to hide his belief that Mr. Bell and the other hopefuls are inadequate.
"The city is standing still, and I'm really worried about it," Mr. Schaefer said. "We have got to have new, dynamic leadership in the city. We have to get the right man or woman to run."
Mr. Schaefer even gives signs that he would consider running again, telling Baltimoreans who approach him that he has not made up his mind. But that is largely a tease. Actually, he concedes, he and others have been scouring the city's business and civic communities for a candidate of leadership qualities and political shrewdness.
And they think they have their man: Kweisi Mfume, the president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which has its headquarters here. Mr. Mfume is a native Baltimorean and served 7 years on the City Council, then 10 in the United States House of Representatives. (He is also a cousin of Mr. Bell.)
Mr. Schmoke said in an interview that if Mr. Mfume ran, "it would be his to lose." But Mr. Mfume insists that he does not intend to seek the office, emphasizing a commitment to the N.A.A.C.P., which he has helped turn around after years of financial chaos. Besides, he lives outside the city, in the town of Catonsville.
"I have repeatedly said I'm not running for mayor," he said. "I am absolutely not running. I have a job."
"I signed on for five years," added Mr. Mfume, appointed in 1996, "and I don't want to abandon it. Short of divine intervention, I'm not prepared to walk away from the N.A.A.C.P."
If that last part sounds less than unequivocal, it has not been lost on Mr. Rawlings and other state lawmakers who are supporting a measure that would shorten the residency requirement for elected officials in Baltimore to 6 months before the general election, from 12. That would give Mr. Schaefer, Mr. Rawlings and others more time to lobby Mr. Mfume, who says he shares their concerns about the current prospective candidates.
"I don't see the kind of leadership that challenges problems, that challenges the drug dealers, that challenges the citizens to dig in and take hold of their city again," he said.
Despite all the glitter of a vibrant downtown, flush with economic development that has made tourism a major industry here, Baltimore has suffered in recent years with a high homicide rate, rampant drug dealing, a struggling public school system and a court system so overcrowded that judges have had to release criminal defendants whose trials have been delayed beyond legal limits.
Critics of Mr. Schmoke say he has become disengaged during his last term, an accusation he acknowledges may appear true, because, once he decided not to run again, he scaled back his public appearances to spend more time with his family.
"I'm not as visible at the neighborhood level," he said. "But in terms of getting things done, working on problems, I'm still as involved as ever, and I'm doing more economic development than I did in my first two terms. But I know in this business perception is the same as reality."
Mr. Bell, who enjoys high name recognition after serving 12 years on the City Council, the last 4 as its president, has been among Mr. Schmoke's most vocal critics, especially on crime.
In an interview, Mr. Bell described himself as a potential "great unifier" of the city, and said his priorities were improving public safety and the schools. He said his "youthfulness enables me to embrace new ideas." But he offered no ideas on crime prevention, economic development or school improvement that have not already been tried elsewhere.
That is what chiefly concerns his critics and could provide an opening for other prospective candidates, including Patricia C. Jessamy, the State's Attorney for the city; former City Councilman Carl Stokes; City Comptroller Joan M. Pratt, and State Senator Joan Carter Conway.
State Senator Barbara A. Hoffman said one telling sign of concern was the reluctance of state lawmakers to offer support for any of the current prospects. "That's highly unusual," she said.
Mr. Rawlings said he and others were hoping that Mr. Mfume would reconsider. If not, he was asked, what is Plan B?
"Plan B is to pray," he said. "It's that serious."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Baltimore's Mayor, Kurt L. Schmoke, above, is leaving after more than a decade in office, setting off a race for succession whose front-runner is Lawrence A. Bell 3d, below, president of the City Council. But neither Mr. Bell nor the rest of the field inspires much confidence from other prominent Democrats. (Photographs by Shana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (91%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (51%); CITY COUNCIL (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAYORS (91%); CITIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); GOVERNORS (72%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



560 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Panel Working Toward Drug Benefit

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24

 BODY:
A Federal advisory commission studying the future of Medicare agreed today to work past its March 1 deadline so members could try to devise a major new benefit covering prescription drug costs.
The drug benefit thus emerged as the linchpin of any broader agreement between Republicans and Democrats on the panel. 
 At least 10 of the commission's 17 members support a proposal by the chairman, Senator John B. Breaux, to remodel Medicare in the image of the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, which covers nine million people. The Government would offer a fixed amount of money to each Medicare beneficiary, who would then enroll in a private health plan or in the regular Medicare program.
Under the 1997 law that created the commission, it is supposed to submit its final report to President Clinton and Congress by next Monday, March 1, but it needs at least 11 votes to endorse any recommendation.
Mr. Breaux is desperately trying to win support for his proposal from two of President Clinton's appointees to the commission: Prof. Stuart H. Altman of Brandeis University and Laura D'Andrea Tyson, former chief economic adviser to Mr. Clinton. As a condition of their support, they insist on Medicare coverage of prescription drugs, not only for people in Medicare-linked health maintenance organizations but also for those in the original fee-for-service program.
Dr. Tyson said she was "sympathetic" to Mr. Breaux's proposal to redesign Medicare. But she added, "If we are going to discuss drug benefits, we certainly need more time."
As talks on those prospective benefits approached, a top Medicare official, Richard S. Foster, told the commission today that its proposals for far-reaching changes in the program would increase premiums for most beneficiaries, even as they slowed the growth of the program and saved money for the Government.
Under existing law, the monthly premium for beneficiaries is already scheduled to double, to $105 in 2009 from $45.50 today. But Mr. Foster, chief Medicare actuary, told the commission that its proposals would further increase premiums, perhaps by 10 percent, for those who remained in the regular fee-for-service program. He said costs would be lower for many people who joined health maintenance organizations and other private health plans.
Mr. Foster said the commission's approach would reduce projected Medicare spending by 10 percent over the next decade and by 11 percent from 2000 to 2030. Under Mr. Breaux's proposal, beneficiaries would bear the financial burden if they chose more expensive health plans. So, he says, they would have a strong incentive to switch to lower-cost plans, and plans would compete for business by offering lower prices, or premiums.
But Mr. Foster said most of the savings would come from other changes proposed by Mr. Breaux. These include an increase in the eligibility age, to 67 from 65; higher premiums for affluent beneficiaries, and a new 10 percent co-payment for the frail elderly people who receive home health care visits.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: RICHARD S GOLDSTEIN (53%); MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MEDICARE (93%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DRUG PRICES (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (75%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



561 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Gets Both Support And Attacks In Washington

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24

 BODY:
On a day that underscored both his potential strengths and vulnerabilities as a candidate for Senate, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani showcased the city's revival in appearances across Capitol Hill today. But he also came under sharp attack from black members of Congress over the police shooting of Amadou Diallo.
Throughout the day, the Mayor received strong encouragement from Republican Congressional leaders to run for the Senate seat that Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a Democrat, plans to vacate at the end of next year. Mr. Giuliani has said he is seriously considering the race, as has Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 Just before meeting with Mr. Giuliani this afternoon, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said the committee was preparing to test a national telemarketing campaign that would use the possibility of a Hillary Clinton candidacy to raise money from Republican donors nationwide.
Stuart Roy, a committee spokesman, said Mr. McConnell wanted to take advantage of the wave of news coverage about Mrs. Clinton's possible New York run to energize the Republican base. If the test campaign succeeds, he said, it would be greatly expanded to raise funds for Senate candidates across the nation.
"She's an easily recognizable national figure and a good reminder of what the real Democrat agenda is, in terms of higher taxes and a government takeover of health care," Mr. Roy said. "We think she will be a great fund-raiser for us."
In his own bit of shadow boxing with the First Lady, the Mayor said he received offers from six Republican members of Congress today to help him raise money for a race against Mrs. Clinton.
Much of his day in Washington, organized with the help of the Republican National Committee and Republican Congressional leaders, seemed intended to promote the Mayor and his policies to a national audience. At a breakfast with Hispanic Republicans, in testimony before the House Subcommittee on Criminal Justice and at a news conference with Republican members of Congress, Mr. Giuliani described his policies on crime, education, immigration and welfare as models for big cities everywhere, asserting that they had made New York safer and more economically vibrant than at any time since the 1950's.
But the generally upbeat tone of the Mayor's day was marred during his testimony before the House subcommittee, when Representative Gregory W. Meeks, a Democrat from Queens, accused Mr. Giuliani of exaggerating the successes in reducing crime and said the Mayor had failed to speak out forcefully against police brutality, particularly involving black and Hispanic people.
During the exchange, which grew heated at times, Mr. Meeks said many black men "fear police as much as the common criminals on the streets." He also raised questions about the police shooting on Tuesday of a Queens man accused of beating his former wife.
In a testy, lecturing voice, Mr. Giuliani responded that there were fewer cases of police brutality and police shootings during his administration than under the previous Mayor, David N. Dinkins. He called the Police Department "a model of restraint" and contended that anti-police prejudice was fueling complaints about the department.
"I know there are people in this society who bear the same kind of prejudices toward police officers that sometimes reflects itself in racial, religious and ethnic prejudices," the Mayor said later in the day. "I have to ask that they put those aside for the moment. When police officers do what we ask them to do, we really have to support them."
Shortly after his confrontation with the Mayor, Mr. Meeks organized a news conference with several other members of the Black Congressional Caucus to attack Mr. Giuliani and his Police Department for having what they described as a lax attitude toward police brutality.
Another potential Democratic candidate for Senate, Representative Nita M. Lowey of Westchester, said the Diallo shooting and the issue of police brutality in general could emerge as an issue in the 2000 campaign for Senate if Mr. Giuliani was the Republican candidate.
"It's not so much what the Mayor said or didn't say at the time," said Ms. Lowey, who has said she will probably run only if Mrs. Clinton does not. "But there is obviously a festering issue here that has to be dealt with. To have people distrust police is tremendously unfortunate, given the important role they do play in the city."
Ms. Lowey met with Mrs. Clinton today for more than an hour to discuss the Senate race. Senators Charles E. Schumer of New York and Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey also met with her separately.
"She wanted to know about the issues people think about in Queens," Ms. Lowey said. "She wanted to know how that differs from Syracuse, Buffalo and elsewhere."
Mr. Giuliani started his day with a speech before Hispanic Heritage Leadership, an organization formed by the Republican National Committee to expand the party's outreach to Hispanic voters. "New York City would not be revived today if it weren't for immigration," he said.
Later, before the House subcommittee, Mr. Giuliani was praised by Representative Bob Barr, a Georgia Republican, as "one of the true heroes" in the war against drugs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani conferred with staff members yesterday between appointments in Washington. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL COMMITTEE (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL COMMITTEE (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); MEN (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); TELEMARKETING (54%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); MITCH MCCONNELL (73%); GREGORY W MEEKS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



562 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: Someone Who'll at Least Consider Becoming the Next Ambassador to China

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration has been unable to persuade two high-profile former members of Congress to accept a nomination as Ambassador to Beijing, a sign of the daunting challenge of managing the deteriorating relationship between the United States and China and of the weakness of a lame-duck President.
In fact, at a time when Congress is investigating China's acquisition of American military secrets, questioning its exploding trade surplus with the United States and criticizing its human rights record, the Administration's feelers have been rejected by at least half a dozen candidates. 
 Former Representative Lee H. Hamilton, who spent his Congressional career mastering foreign affairs in general and Asia in particular, was asked to take the job, according to Administration officials and friends of Mr. Hamilton. But he begged off and chose, instead, to remain as head of the Woodrow Wilson Center, a prestigious Washington policy institute.
Former Senator Dale Bumpers, Mr. Clinton's long-time Arkansas friend who offered his oratory in defense of the President during the Senate impeachment trial, turned down the tentative job offer, instead choosing to lead the relatively small Center for Defense Information here, officials said.
Three other retired officials also received feelers -- David H. Pryor, a former Democratic Senator from Arkansas; Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Anthony Lake, a former national security adviser -- and all declined to have their names put forward by the President, according to Administration officials and other former officials.
In refusing the prospect of nomination, some of the potential candidates expressed ambivalence about accepting such a demanding overseas position for a tour that might be over in less than two years, with the end of the Clinton Administration. But some of those well-known and respected Washington leaders indicated that they were more discouraged by the enormous problems in Chinese-American relations -- and especially by Congressional criticism of the Administration's foreign policies.
Both factors figured in the decisions of Mr. Hamilton, his friends said. Mr. Bumpers told associates he did not believe that he was the right choice for the position at this time.
The potential candidates apparently thought a confirmation hearing before the Committee on Foreign Relations, which is led by Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, would be as unforgiving as earlier hearings over China's trade status.
"Any confirmation hearing will be bruising," said one Administration official, referring to the inevitable committee showdown. "The nominee will be asked to answer for all of the ills of China from human rights issues to the closed market. What's the point?"
Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser, is heading the search for a replacement for James R. Sasser, who became the American Ambassador to China in 1996 after losing his seat as a Democratic Senator from Tennessee. He will leave the post in May.
"Obviously, this job is critical to United States national interests and we're looking at people of stature," said David Leavy, a spokesman for the national security council. "We don't feel we're behind the curve. It's at the top of our agenda."
Mr. Leavy said that only two people had been approached seriously about the job, but he declined to identify them.
But other Administration officials who insisted on anonymity said Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Lake and Mr. Bumpers had all been asked to seriously consider the position. Friends of Mr. Pryor said he was approached but had immediately turned the offer down without even discussing it with his wife.
The other official approached was Stephen Bosworth, the current Ambassador to South Korea, former senior Administration officials said.
Administration officials agree that this is a pivotal moment for one of the country's most important foreign relationships and that Mr. Clinton is searching for a prominent envoy whose name alone would convey to the Chinese how highly Washington values its dealings with them. At the same time, the officials said, an Ambassador-designate must be perceived as tough on Beijing in order to win confirmation from Congress.
But a confirmation hearing of even the most popular candidate is expected to become a foil for every senator with a problem with China, said a senior Clinton Administration official.
"The confirmation would go on and on and it will be a bruising battle," the official said.
At the root of the Congressional questions are serious disagreements with China's defense, economic and social policies. China has doubled the number of missiles pointed at Taiwan since the early 1990's and is arguing with its Southeast Asian neighbors over the Spratley Islands. Congress also wants China to open its markets further. And human rights groups on the left and the right continue raising questions about basic freedoms in that country.
"I think this is a very rough time for dealing with China," said Edward Friedman, a political science professor and China specialist at the University of Wisconsin. "In this period of global economic turmoil, these political and economic difficulties aren't going away."
Added to challenge of having to confront China on these issues, a new Ambassador would face the prospect of being replaced after the Presidential election in the year 2000.
"It is harder to get people to take jobs in the last years of an Administration that is usually exhausted," said Michael Beschloss, a scholar on the Presidency who saw similarities with the predicament President Nixon faced in appointing Ambassadors to South Vietnam toward the end of the American war there. "When a country is going very wrong, that's not a time you have people jumping through hoops to become the next Ambassador."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR DEFENSE INFORMATION (55%); CENTER FOR DEFENSE INFORMATION (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR DEFENSE INFORMATION (55%); CENTER FOR DEFENSE INFORMATION (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); IMPEACHMENT (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



563 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: The Buck Doesn't Stop Here: Now Argentina May Adopt It

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Feb. 24

 BODY:
A month after President Carlos Saul Menem floated the idea of trading the Argentine peso for the American dollar, United States and Argentine officials are considering the complexities of making the Federal Reserve the central bank for both countries.
But officials of both countries say there is a long way to go before negotiations take hold and actually produce a treaty. Still, no one is completely dismissing the idea that dollars could become the currency of Argentina, and the Fed could even become the lender of last resort. 
 Mr. Menem also went a step further by suggesting that neighboring Brazil resolve its economic crisis by pegging the value of its currency 1 to 1 to the dollar, just as Argentina did in 1991. That, too, would be a move toward replacing Brazilian real with the dollar.
Argentine officials say after Argentina and Brazil had converted their currencies to the dollar, they could move the entire Western Hemisphere decisively toward a regional currency like Europe's new euro. More than likely, the officials said, Mexico would also follow Argentina's lead, and the hemispheric currency would inevitably become the greenback.
"It's a shocking novelty for a country like Argentina to make this kind of a proposal," said Carlos Fedrigotti, president of Citibank in Argentina. "President Menem has started the debate, and it has to do with the future of not only Argentina, but of the entire continent, which will have to eventually fall under the influence of the dollar in trade, capital flows and, ultimately, in geopolitics."
The dollar is already omnipresent here. Most cabdrivers and restaurants accept dollars. Automated teller machines offer dollars and pesos. Virtually all mortgages and apartment rental contracts are drawn in dollars. Even cellular telephone bills are stated in dollars, and customers are free to pay in American or Argentine currency.
As of Feb. 15, $36.9 billion in Argentine certificates of deposit were denominated in dollars, compared with $13.6 billion in pesos. Nevertheless, Mr. Menem's proposal to replace the peso totally with the dollar has been greeted by sneers by much of the opposition and the news media. Brazil has said it has no interest in the idea, although that could change if its currency continues to slide.
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, has expressed skepticism. Enthusiasts for the private sector here and Government economists say the idea is probably years from fruition, even as they argue that using the dollar would lower interest rates and increase foreign trade and investment.
With 10 months left in his term, Mr. Menem has made what he calls "dollarization" his top economic and diplomatic priority. Senior officials have begun informal talks with officials at the United States Treasury Department and Federal Reserve, and Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers has encouraged the Argentines to make a formal treaty proposal.
"Dollarization could be just a good idea that disappears in a few months because of politics," Finance Undersecretary Miguel A. Kiguel said in an interview. "Or it could be a good idea that will generate its own positive momentum. My guess is Argentina could be a very important pilot case that would open the door to other countries, mostly in Latin America, to adopt the dollar."
Today only Panama and Liberia, two tiny countries with long historical attachments to the United States, use the American currency as their own. Panama ran short of greenbacks several years ago but it has generally had enough of them to go around.
In no country in Latin America is the dollar exchanged anywhere nearly as freely as it is here.
Argentine economists note that in technical terms converting to a dollar economy would be no large feat. Under the convertibility scheme of 1991, all peso notes issued by the Central Bank are backed by dollar or gold reserves. In the last year, all Government bonds, even those sold in local markets, have been denominated in dollars.
Mr. Menem has asked his senior economic advisers to draw up plans to pay Government employees in dollars and collect taxes in dollars, moves that would speed a transformation.
Argentines became attached to the dollar in the 1980's, when inflation galloped so fast that people converted their paychecks to dollars as fast as they could. Of the $5 billion in Argentine bank accounts in April 1991, when the peg was installed, nearly 40 percent were in dollars. The peg virtually ended capital flight, and bank accounts have grown to $78 billion, 57 percent of which are now in dollar accounts.
"Our people already can freely choose whether they deal in pesos or dollars," noted Senator Domingo Cavallo, a former Economy Minister.
But by raising the issue of a replacement of the peso with the dollar almost immediately after Brazil devalued the real six weeks ago, officials said Mr. Menem was sending a powerful signal to the international investors that Argentina had no intention of following that example. They said Mr. Menem would convert to a dollar economy by emergency decree if the peso suffers a severe speculative attack.
Mr. Menem's move succeeded in reducing the difference in interest rates between Argentine bonds and the lower rates on United States Treasury bills over the last month. In another sign of confidence, Argentine commercial bank accounts have accumulated funds since Mr. Menem first spoke of "dollarization."
Argentine officials said they wanted to negotiate a treaty with the United States that would make the Federal Reserve the lender of last resort in case an Argentine bank should fail. They also want the United States Government to compensate the $750 million loss that Argentina would sustain in yearly interest earned from the United States Treasury bills that the Central Bank holds. That interest would be automatically lost when the Central Bank sold its dollar reserves to the public to take pesos out of circulation.
To entice Clinton Administration officials -- and eventually United States Senators, whose approval would be needed for any treaty -- Mr. Menem's advisers are drawing up a series of proposals. One would give the Fed a strong supervisory role over Argentine financial institutions.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Greenbacks?"
Officials in Argentina are considering converting their currency to dollars, which currently constitute more than 57 percent of bank deposits. Graph shows percentage of bank deposits in Argentina that are dollars, from 1992 through 1999. (Source: Fundacion Capital)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (55%); C (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (94%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (94%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TELEPHONE RATES (68%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



564 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. Leads Defeat of Pact On Genetically Altered Food
Attempts to forge the world's first global treaty to regulate trade in genetically modified products failed when the United States and five other big agricultural exporters rejected a proposal that had the support of the rest of the roughly 130 nations at the talks. 
 The treaty's supporters said it would reduce the risk of harmful effects from introducing genes of different species into plants, animals or microorganisms. But Washington and its allies argued that it would entangle the world's food trade in red tape. Page A1.
 
Amazon.com Backs Drug Web Site
Drugstore.com, a new site backed by Amazon.com, wants to sell aspirin along with prescription drugs and other over-the-counter health and beauty products. Amazon, which owns 46 percent of the drug site, will promote the new site with links throughout its service and through E-mail to its customers. But the two stores will be otherwise separate. Shares of Amazon fell $4.25, to $110.9375. C3.
 
Fed Chief Says Focus Must Be U.S.
Federal Reserve policy must remain focused on the United States, Alan Greenspan told the House Banking Committee. But in any case, the Fed chairman said, changes by the central bank would do little to help ease the economic crisis in Russia. C8.
 
Another Microsoft Video Dispute
Microsoft showed a video intended to demonstrate that it is already granting computer makers the flexibility to alter the Windows desktop. But the Government argued the tape showed only that the industry is changing even as Microsoft's antitrust trial proceeds. C5.
 
Cadbury Posts 6% Gain in '98 Profit
Cadbury Schweppes reported a 6 percent gain in 1998 earnings despite slower sales and tried to portray the results as a success. But the British confections and beverage company found itself facing questions from analysts and shareholders about its plans. C4.
 
Philip Morris to Shut Kentucky Plant
Philip Morris plans to close a factory in Louisville, Ky., and lay off the 1,400 workers who make Marlboro, Virginia Slims, Benson & Hedges and other cigarette brands at the plant. The company will take a $200 million pretax charge, mostly for severance pay, to cover the closing. C3.
 
AT&T Executive Resigns
Reviving questions about AT&T's ability to retain entrepreneurial managers, Robert Annunziata, who took over AT&T's $22 billion business-services unit less than six months ago, resigned to become chief executive of Global Crossing, one of AT&T's fast-moving international competitors. He had been held up as the sort of versatile, quick-thinking executive the company is trying to attract. C6.
 
Turner to Start Regional Network
Turner Broadcasting System, which grew from the seed of a local Atlanta television station, announced a return to those roots with plans for a 24-hour regional cable network called Turner South. C6.
 
Sony Offers New Way to Sell Music
Sony is expected to announce today a new copy protection method designed to enable the recording industry to sell music safely, both on the Internet and on digital formats. C6.
 
When Common Is Unacceptable
The Government's antitrust cases against Microsoft and Intel have at least one common feature. Both cases focus on commonplace business practices regarded as acceptable for ordinary companies but not for monopolists. Michael M. Weinstein: Economic Scene. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,399.67 down 144.75
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.51% up 0.08
The Dollar -- 121.80 yen up 0.99
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows percent change in durable goods ordered, from July 1998 through Dec. 1998. January 1999 figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern. Expected: -0.2%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (53%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); CADBURY LTD (53%); BENSON & HEDGES (52%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (89%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (86%); TOBACCO MFG (86%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); CLOSINGS (76%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (74%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); SEVERANCE PAY (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



565 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
U.S. Sidetracks Pact to Control Gene Splicing

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: CARTAGENA, Colombia, Feb. 24

 BODY:
Attempts to forge the world's first global treaty to regulate trade in genetically modified products failed this morning when the United States and five other big agricultural exporters rejected a proposal that had the support of the rest of the roughly 130 nations taking part in the talks.
The treaty would have required that exporters of genetically altered plants, seeds or other organisms obtain approval in advance from the importing nation. The talks broke down over the question of whether this requirement would also apply to commodities like wheat and corn. 
 Proponents of the treaty, especially European and many developing nations, have resisted genetically modified products, worried that not enough is known about the possible effects on human health and the environment. But Washington and its allies have argued that such regulations would entangle the world's food trade in red tape.
From 25 percent to 45 percent of crops like corn, soybeans and cotton grown in the United States are genetically modified, according to United States industry estimates, and American negotiators feared that the proposal would have blocked or stalled some of the $50 billion in annual farm exports.
Bleary-eyed delegates from many nations, who have been negotiating day and night for more than a week, expressed fury at the United States, accusing it of intransigence and of putting the interests of its world-leading farming and biotechnology industries above the environment.
"It's five nations against the world," said Dr. Joseph M. Gopo, the delegate from Zimbabwe, referring to Washington and its allies, which actually number six. "There could be no greater injustice than that," he said. The United States, he added, "is holding the world at ransom." The allies are Canada, Australia, Chile, Argentina and Uruguay.
The delegates agreed to suspend the talks and resume them no later than May 2000. The United States had urged this, saying there were too many unresolved issues to achieve a consensus by the deadline, which was Tuesday. Such agreements are generally done by consensus, not by an explicit vote.
"It would be much better to get a sound instrument a year hence than to get a flawed instrument today," said Rafe Pomerance, a Deputy Assistant Secretary of State. But delegates from some other nations feared the process would now lose momentum.
Even without a treaty, countries can limit the import of genetically engineered seeds or foods under their own law, subject to challenge under world trading rules. Some countries, particularly in Europe, are doing this. The treaty was mainly meant to help developing countries, which now lack the expertise and the legislation to regulate biotechnology.
The United States has often taken a stance different from much of the rest of the world on trade and environmental matters. It has not ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity reached at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 because some senators fear that American interests would be jeopardized. The current talks on the Biosafety Protocol are an outgrowth of the biodiversity treaty.
The Biosafety Protocol would require exporters of genetically modified organisms, such as seeds into which new traits have been added by gene-splicing, to obtain prior approval from the importing country. Some scientists worry, for instance, that if a plant were given genes allowing it to produce a drug, insects could be exposed, with unknown results. Some fear that a gene conferring insect resistance or drought tolerance on a crop could spread to weeds, creating super weeds.
Washington and its allies were willing to have seeds covered by the treaty. But they argued that commodities meant for eating and processing did not enter the environment.
Developing nations and the European Union argued that commodities should be included because they have seeds that can be planted. Also, there is much more concern in these countries than in the United States about possible health effects from eating genetically modified food.
Some developing nations even wanted the treaty to cover products made from genetic engineering such as cornflakes made from modified corn, or blue jeans made from altered cotton, but this was dropped from the final draft.
Another point of dispute that could not be resolved was that Washington wanted World Trade Organization rules to take precedence over the Biosafety Protocol, to prevent other nations from using biosafety as an excuse to erect trade barriers. The developing nations and Europe wanted the Biosafety Protocol to be equal to or take precedence over W.T.O. rules.
Michael Williams, a spokesman for the United Nations Environment Program, said this was the first environmental treaty he could remember in at least 20 years in which an agreement was not reached by the self-imposed deadline.
But officials here said the big stakes involved for industry made this difficult. "It's the first time that you have really possibly a legally binding instrument dealing with trade and the environment at the same time," said Veit Koester, a Danish environmental official who headed the working group that drew up the draft of the treaty.
It perhaps complicated things that the industry involved was biotechnology, in which the United States holds a firm lead. There have been a rising number of disputes in recent years between developing and developed nations over the control of genetic resources, the raw material for biotechnology, which some analysts predict will be to the next century what oil and metal were to this one.
Washington had opposed starting the biosafety negotiations three years ago, and many people at this meeting thought its real intention was to torpedo the treaty.
"The last two years of negotiation have been a constant attempt to delay, not negotiate, block," said Chee Yoke Ling of the Third World Network, a Malaysia-based group working on environmental and development issues. "They've always said 'No, no, no,' and they delayed and they diluted," she said.
Still, the United States could have been isolated since it was not a party to the biodiversity convention. But it strengthened its hand by aligning with Canada, Australia and three agricultural exporters from the developing world -- Argentina, Chile and Uruguay. Without the support of such major exporters, any protocol would have been difficult to enforce.
Mr. Pomerance, the American negotiator, said Washington did want a treaty but a workable one and had been compromising. But he added: "There were two compromises we were not prepared to make. One is to tie up trade in the world's food supply. The second is to allow this regime, without a lot of deliberation, to undermine the W.T.O. trading regime."
Both the United States Government and the biotechnology industry would have something to gain from a treaty, were it not too onerous. A treaty could have helped assuage public fears about biotechnology, which are much greater elsewhere in the world than in the United States. And having a unified global regulatory scheme would be easier for companies than having each nation adopt its own rules.
The European Union and individual countries have restricted the planting and importing of genetically modified crops. Some consumer groups are calling for a moratorium on genetic engineering of food and crops.
But the food and biotechnology industries and the United States Government asserted that genetic engineering had not been shown to be a big threat to biodiversity, especially compared with the destruction of tropical forests to create farmland. They also said that environmental groups and developing nations were trying to expand the treaty to deal with human health and the social and economic effects of biotechnology.
"They are trying to get this protocol to develop issues that are really important but not part of the protocol," said Joyce Groote, a spokeswoman for the Global Industry Coalition, which represents 2,200 companies from 130 countries.
Environmental groups had complained in the last few days that the protocol had been watered down to the point of near insignificance. But in the end, some said that even the weakened treaty would have been better than none.
"The environment's the loser, always," said Beth Burrows, president of the Edmonds Institute, a nonprofit organization in Edmonds, Wash., that deals with biosafety issues. "There was no moral high ground here," she added. "There was no scientific high ground here. It was just cheap power politics."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (50%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); EARTH (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (50%); 

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY AND GENETIC ENGINEERING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE EXPORT TRADE (91%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (91%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); BIODIVERSITY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



566 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: Bronx Neighbors Spar Over School;
Plan for an Academy Widens Racial and Economic Rifts

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

 BODY:
As communities go, Riverdale and Marble Hill would seem to have little in common. Riverdale, studded with co-ops and spacious houses, infused with a suburb-in-the city feel, sits high on a hill in the northwest Bronx. Marble Hill, full of housing projects, noisy with urban bustle, lies below in the shadow of the elevated train running along Broadway.
Yet the two -- Riverdale mostly white and Marble Hill mostly black and Hispanic -- share a sprawling public school district, the city's largest with 43,000 students. While relations between the neighborhoods have never been warm, a proposal by Riverdale parents to rezone the district has ignited a firestorm. 
 The plan, which in effect would separate Marble Hill and Riverdale children who now attend the same middle school, has prompted charges of racism and countercharges of economic jealousy. The battle has split the local school board, which is to vote on the issue tonight.
Behind the bad feelings and heated words lurk larger questions that schools and parents across the city are grappling with: how to preserve integration and maintain quality neighborhood schooling.
The debate in the Bronx turns on Middle School 141 in Riverdale, which draws nearly half its 1,400 students from that neighborhood, which is mostly middle and upper-middle class. The rest come mostly from Marble Hill, which is predominantly poor, and Kingsbridge, which is largely middle class.
A group of Riverdale parents want to revamp the middle school into an academy that would include a rigorous high school. To make room for it, they want to reduce the school's zone in a way that would exclude many of Marble Hill's children. Kingsbridge would not be affected. Displaced Marble Hill children, the group says, could go to a new school that the district has been planning to build. M.S. 368, would be down the hill, on Tibbett Avenue next to John F. Kennedy High School.
The parents argue that reorganizing M.S. 141 and creating a new high school in Riverdale would bring back white middle-class students who have abandoned the local public school system. Riverdale parents have long avoided sending their children to the local John F. Kennedy High School, instead choosing private schools or public schools outside the district. With about 5,000 students, Kennedy is one of the city's largest schools, and it has acquired a reputation, deserved or not, for poor performance and gangs, drugs and guns.
Opponents of the plan, however, say that it aims to exclude from M.S. 141 the poor and minority children who live in Marble Hill, that it harks back to separate but equal education and that it would create a semiprivate school with public money. Some opponents also say the land for the new school is not safe for construction.
The opponents, who have a majority on Community School Board 10, say they will reject the construction of M.S. 368 at tonight's meeting, effectively killing the Riverdale plan. "I come from Marble Hill, and now they expect me to sell it out," said Charles Williams, the first black person elected to Board 10 and now its president. "I can't do it."
Mr. Williams said that negotiations between the two sides had broken down and that as long as the Riverdale parents continued to insist on restricting the number of Marble Hill children who could go to the revamped school, he would not go along with it.
"You're asking two African-Americans and two Latinos to support a racist plan," he said of himself and his board allies. "That's a slap in the face." A fifth board member, who is white, opposes the construction of M.S. 368 because he believes the site is unsafe.
That the vote will table the issue for good is unlikely. Proponents of reorganization say they are not going to give up their dream of a neighborhood school. They plan to advance their own slate of candidates for school board elections in May and then resubmit their proposal.
The notion that the board's majority would spike a new school that would primarily serve minority children in an overcrowded district underscores the racial and personal enmities on a board deeply divided over how to provide an equal education to all its students.
"For the board to even consider rejecting a desperately needed school is the height of irresponsibility," Jeffrey Dinowitz, the area's Assemblyman and a supporter of the revamping, said.
A spokesman for the Board of Education, J. D. LaRock, said he could not recall a school board ever turning down the offer of a new school from the central board.
Mr. LaRock said that Chancellor Rudy Crew's position was that the superintendent and the school board should resolve the issues involving M.S. 141. But he said he was unsure how the Chancellor would react to the vetoing of a new school altogether. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has also expressed support for the construction of M.S. 368, which would have at least 600 students.
Proponents in Riverdale say the very future of their community is at stake: lacking confidence in the local public schools, many young families are choosing to leave Riverdale altogether. "The whole idea here is to recreate some confidence in our public school system," said G. Oliver Koppell, a longtime Assemblyman from Riverdale who is heading the group's slate of school board candidates. Mr. Koppell served as Attorney General for a year, in 1994.
The arguments against the reorganization plan, Mr. Koppell said, "are just specious -- and I think they're based on jealousies and misapprehensions about the Riverdale community."
The problem of parents looking elsewhere for schooling options, Riverdale residents say, has been exacerbated by a decline at M.S. 141, a decline they trace to an expansion of its zone in 1992 to include Marble Hill children. It was compounded the next year, they say, by an influx of special education students from around the district.
Andrew Wolf, the publisher of The Riverdale Review, a local paper that has been an unabashedly vocal advocate of the reorganization plan, says the school's citywide ranking in reading scores dropped to 69th last year from 25th in 1992.
"The lack of confidence in M.S. 141 has accelerated since the zoning changes in 1992," Mr. Wolf said, noting that the school has lost almost half its white population since then. Mr. Wolf said he simply wanted to preserve integration -- which means maintaining a white population at the school.
The reorganization proposal would increase the percentage of white students at the new academy to 30 to 40 percent, about double what it is now at M.S. 141 and equal to what it was a decade ago. Mr. Koppell, Mr. Wolf and other advocates of the plan point out that the school would still be largely Hispanic and black.
But Mr. Williams said the plan would undermine integration by excluding the children who are already at the greatest disadvantage. Three elementary schools are now the primary feeders for M.S. 141: Public Schools 7, 24 and 81.
P.S. 7 in Kingsbridge, most of whose students would be excluded from the academy, is at least 95 percent minority, compared with 50 percent at P.S. 24 and 56 percent at P.S. 81. More important, he says, 90 percent of the children at P.S. 7 are eligible for free lunch, a poverty indicator, compared with 17 percent at P.S. 24 and 29 percent at P.S. 81. The reorganization plan, he said, would banish the poorest students from the school.
Some Marble Hill parents say they would like a new middle school closer to home, and they are as desperate for alternatives to Kennedy as the Riverdale parents are.
Others agree that a new school is necessary, but object to the proposed location, which is sandwiched between two other schools, is next to a proposed site for an Emergency Management Station, and is on swampland that some school board members say they believe is toxic, although the Board of Education says it is safe.
Yet others view the plan as exclusionary. "People from Riverdale are trying to confuse things by saying we will get a new school," Rosa Diaz, a Marble Hill parent, said. "If they put the new school there, that's fine. But that's not a reason to have all the rich white kids go to this academy and have all the poor black and Latino kids go to that one."
But Riverdale parents argue that it is not about race. One resident, Derrick Spencer, who is black, said the matter came down only to providing the best education. "I don't see anything racial in it at all," he said. "As an African-American, I'm interested in getting a good education for my children."
Tensions on all sides have been inflamed by anonymous fliers that were put under Marble Hill parents' doors, citing a cartoon and comments in The Riverdale Review that the flier decried as "Mississippi Racism." Mr. Wolf's critics say his words have done little to encourage rational discourse.
In particular, his critics cite Mr. Wolf's handling of the death of a Hispanic boy who was hit by a car on the Henry Hudson Parkway, and who had received a waiver to attend M.S. 141: his coverage focused on the fact that the boy was from outside M.S. 141's zone, and implied that he would not have been dead if he had attended a school closer to his home.
Mr. Wolf says the cartoon was misinterpreted. But he does not deny that he has taken a highly partisan tone in his coverage. "I am not going to sit back and chronicle the decline of this community," he said.
Caught in the middle of the fight is the superintendent, Irma Zardoya, who declined to be interviewed for this article. She has tried to broker a compromise, proposing that both M.S. 141 and M.S. 368 be theme academies that include high schools, and that children be able to choose between the schools. If too many children want to attend one or another school, she would employ a lottery.
All nine members of the school board have rejected her plan -- some oppose building M.S. 368 at all, while others say it would not guarantee Riverdale children the right to attend the revamped M.S. 141.
"Irma wants the easy way," Mr. Williams said. "There is no easy way for this."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: G. Oliver Koppel; Charles Williams; Middle School 141 in the Riverdale section of the Bronx is the focus of a debate over integration and neighborhood schools. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)
 
Map of the Bronx highlighting the area that would be excluded

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: F KENNEDY HIGH SCHOOL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SUBURBS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (70%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (65%); JOHN F KENNEDY (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



567 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
GENERAL MOTORS TO CUT1,100 JOBS IN CANADA

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation will eliminate more than 1,100 jobs at two Canadian plants, most of them at a brake and axle factory that is losing an important contract, the company said yesterday. Layoff notices will be issued starting Monday and the job cuts will begin in July at the plants, both in St. Catherines, Ontario. A company spokesman, Stew Low, said about half the cuts stemmed from the pending loss of a 1993 contract to supply rear truck axles to the Detroit-based American Axle and Manufacturing Inc., a supplier that was spun off by G.M. in 1994. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); AXL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP (GM) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); AMERICAN AXLE & MANUFACTURING HOLDINGS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP (GM)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES LAYOFFS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLE POWER TRAIN MFG (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



568 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Sprawl Spoils More Than Beauty

 BODY:

To the Editor:
While the statistics offered by John Tierney (Big City column, Feb. 22) do much to discount the fears of those who argue that this country's open spaces risk extinction within a few years, Mr. Tierney fails to address the true problem of urban and suburban sprawl: its disruption of our social and cultural fabric. 
 Sprawl has been instrumental in the destruction of any sense of community within both large and small cities across the country. New developments, built to profit developers, have done more to fractionalize communities along racial, economic and political lines than at any other time in our country's history.
Moreover, one need only spend time in a place like suburban Atlanta to realize that the environmental impact of the long, miserable automobile commute most suburbanites must make is in itself reason enough to curtail growth.
 
CODY LYON
New York, Feb. 22, 1999
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); GEORGIA, USA (75%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SUBURBS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HISTORY (52%); 

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



569 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: As the Lucky Escape the Alps, a Snowslide Claims Others

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: LANDECK, Austria, Feb. 24

 BODY:
With more snow covering the Alps than almost anyone could remember, Ulrike Schwarz came to the Austrian alpine resort of Galtur from her home in Germany last week with her two teen-age children expecting the best skiing in years.
But since the weekend it had been snowing too hard to ski. So Mrs. Schwarz, her daughter, Solvieg, and her son, Christoph, were relaxing in bed on the third floor of their bed-and-breakfast chalet at 4 P.M. Tuesday when, with an almighty rumbling, clouds of snow blasted through the windows and the whole house collapsed beneath them. 
 "Avalanche!" Mrs. Schwarz screamed, pushing the children toward the stairs in the back of the Tyrolean chalet, away from millions of tons of compressed snow carrying rocks and shredded trees that was roaring down on the village.
They survived, climbing out of the house through a hole where the roof had been, and were flown out to an emergency center in Landeck this afternoon.
The bodies of 16 people, many of them German vacationers, have been recovered from the avalanche, 15 to 20 feet deep and 300 to 500 feet wide, that swept into Galtur, the authorities here said today. The death toll had risen to 23 by Thursday morning, The Associated Press reported. The search continues for about 20 people who are almost certainly dead under the snow.
Today, 24 hours after that avalanche, another, up to 45 feet deep and 600 feet wide, swept away four houses in the nearby resort of Ischgl, the authorities said. A man and a little girl were pulled alive from the snow there but a woman was killed and six other people are believed missing, according to the authorities and Austrian television.
All told, the avalanches were the worst in Austria since a series of snowslides killed 56 people in the village of Blons in January 1954.
With Galtur and Ischgl cut off from road access today by the continuing danger of avalanches, information on the latest slide was scarce.
Maj. Thomas Schonherr, an Austrian military spokesman, said that the rescuers in Galtur had no way of making their way down the valley this afternoon to help in Ischgl, but that others had been flown in by helicopter. "The snow is like cement and it's full of pieces of wood and wreckage," Major Schonherr said.
After heavy snows during the last two weeks set off avalanches that killed 7 people near the southern Swiss village of Evolene and 19 people in France, the mood today at the height of this Alpine vacation season is edgy, for reasons that normally would leave both skiers and those who cater to them thrilled. They live for snow; now they are finding that they can also die from too much of it.
Here in Landeck, more than 20 miles east of Galtur, a military barracks compound was turned into an emergency command center for evacuating people from the resorts and sending in food and other supplies to those who remained there.
The authorities barred all civilian air and road traffic in the area.
Landeck and Galtur are separated by mountains more than 8,000 to 10,000 feet high, fearsome, jagged peaks that, from the air today, looked softened and benign under their heavy coats of blinding white snow.
Olive drab Austrian Huey helicopters beat their way down into the narrow landing field of the Landeck barracks for most of the day, taking out about 400 vacationers and villagers before a heavy snowfall late this afternoon halted the flights.
Scores of uniformed military and police rescue teams and volunteers boarded the same helicopters to try to help at the scene. Other helicopters loaded up with meat, cabbage, potatoes, tomatoes and milk for the 7,500 tourists in Ischgl and the 600 still in Galtur.
The United States sent six Blackhawk medical evacuation helicopters to Innsbruck airport, 60 miles northeast of Galtur, to help take people out, but they could not fly in because of the afternoon snow, Major Schonherr said.
Austrian television broadcast videotape, apparently taken by rescuers, showing dogs sniffing for survivors and long lines of rescuers plunging sticks into the snow and digging holes up to 10 feet deep in hopes of finding victims still alive.
The tape showed solid three-story concrete and stucco Tyrolean houses torn apart as if by an earthquake and heavy automobiles rolled into crumpled metal balls by the snow.
And it showed rescuers lifting frozen bodies out of the ice.
"This is the most painful day of my life," said Wendelin Weingartner, the top elected official in the Austrian Tyrol region. Eight seriously injured victims were flown to hospitals in Innsbruck, where they were all said to be in stable condition under treatment for hypothermia.
European authorities explained the spate of avalanches by the almost unparalleled amounts of snow that have fallen since the second week of February and by the high winds that whip it into drifts and make it unstable on the crust of earlier snow.
Sometimes they explained the catastrophe by the invasion of an inhospitable mountain fastness by larger and larger crowds of affluent urban ski enthusiasts and by risky decisions to build chalets in places where the last avalanche came down too long ago to be remembered.
Scores of other resorts in Austria, Switzerland and France have been cut off from road access for days by the mounting danger of avalanches. Places like Davos, where the high and mighty of the world of government, industry and finance congregated at the World Economic Forum early this month, are now inaccessible by road or rail, and others, like the fashionable Austrian resorts of Lech and Zurs, have been cut off for more than a week.
Yet almost all have web sites or television advertisements that boast of fantastic ski conditions and most are clearly expecting a new infusion of guests as soon as the roads reopen.
Mrs. Schwarz had a plate of macaroni with bolognese sauce in the barracks mess hall after her ordeal and waited for her husband to come from Mosbach, the German city near Heidelberg where they live, to pick the family up.
Would she or her children ever go skiing again? "Yes, but not with this much snow," Mrs. Schwarz said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A photograph taken yesterday from an army helicopter showed part of the Austrian resort of Galtur struck by an avalanche on Tuesday. Twenty-four hours later an avalanche swept away four houses in nearby Ischgl. (Associated Press)
 
Chart/Map: "A Wicked Winter"
The Alpine region of Europe suffers more avalanches than anywhere else in the world, but heavy snows are making this year particularly hazardous. The map shows the location of avalanches in the Alps since January. The chart also shows how the ingredients (% of slope, amount of snow, and ice, etc.) come together, is what causes an avalanche. (Source: Colorado Avalanche Information Center)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRIA (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (78%); FRANCE (70%); 

STATE: ALPS (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); TYROL, AUSTRIA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); COLORADO AVALANCHE (83%); COLORADO AVALANCHE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO AVALANCHE (83%); COLORADO AVALANCHE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRIA (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (78%); FRANCE (70%); ALPS (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); TYROL, AUSTRIA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SKIING FACILITIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); AVALANCHES (90%); SKIING (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); WEATHER (78%); 

PERSON: THOMAS SCHONHERR (59%); ULRIKE SCHWARZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



570 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: A Plunge in Use Of Food Stamps Causes Concern

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
The nation's food stamp rolls have dropped by one-third in four years, leading to a growing concern that the decline is caused partly by needy people's hesitance to apply for benefits.
A vibrant economy is clearly a major reason that the number of people using food stamps fell to fewer than 19 million last November, from nearly 28 million people four years earlier. But some in Congress, at the Agriculture Department, which administers the food stamp program, and at private poverty groups say they feel that a significant number of people are not seeking help even though they still lack food and are eligible. 
 Some officials say they believe that stringent rules intended to put welfare recipients to work and reduce the welfare rolls may have also discouraged people from seeking food stamps.
States and cities seeking to cut welfare rolls aggressively, for example, require applicants to search a month or more for a job before they can get benefits. Often, officials say, people in need of emergency food aid simply walk out the door.
"The goal was to get people off welfare programs, but people may have failed to understand that the food stamp program is not a welfare program," said Shirley R. Watkins, the Under Secretary of Agriculture for food, nutrition and consumer service. "It's nutritional assistance."
In other cases, Ms. Watkins says, it may be the rising stigma surrounding public aid that is keeping people from applying for food aid.
For conservative analysts, though, the decline is a tonic for the overuse of public aid in earlier years.
The notion that too many people have abandoned food stamps has caused a flurry of activity at the Agriculture Department.
The department recently commissioned a study to understand a simultaneous rise in the demand on private food charities like church-basement food pantries and soup kitchens. The goal is to determine if some of these charity seekers are asking for handouts at private charities because they have lost access to public food aid, agriculture officials said.
Obtaining food stamps requires a simple showing of financial need, unlike other Federal benefits with more stringent regulations and requirements.
Medicaid has similar broad eligibility, and it too has recorded a similar unexplained drop in its rolls. Some officials have said that while this drop, too, can be attributed partly to the economy, it may also be the result of recipients believing, inaccurately, that once they are removed from welfare rolls, they are also ineligible for Medicaid.
Ms. Watkins said there were indications from states like Wisconsin that some people leaving welfare for low-wage work are not continuing to seek food stamps that could help them make it through the month.
Her misgivings are shared by some members of Congress from both sides of the aisle.
It is becoming apparent that the welfare reforms of 1996 did not anticipate how tightly access to food stamps was linked to access to welfare, said Representative Nancy L. Johnson, Republican of Connecticut and chairwoman of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources.
"We do think there's a problem here," Mrs. Johnson said. "We need to see why state systems don't seem to capture the food-stamp eligible population very well.
"When you make a big change in one system it's going to have ramifications for other systems," Mrs. Johnson said. "Some are positive. If people aren't getting food stamps because they're making more money, that's a good thing."
She said her committee was planning to hold hearings on the matter this year.
So far analysts have been able to gauge only roughly how many eligible people have left the food stamp program even though they need the aid. Last year, for example, the Congressional Budget Office calculated that 2.9 million such people left the food stamp rolls from 1994 to 1997. The budget office report, a projection of economic conditions through 2008, proposed that the rising stigma and barriers surrounding welfare offices could be driving eligible people away.
Whatever the reasons, no one disputes how drastically the program has shrunk, both in the number of people enrolled and in the cost of providing the aid. Since 1994, the cost of the food stamp program has fallen to $18.9 billion from $24.5 billion, according to the Agriculture Department.
But some conservative poverty analysts say the drop in food stamp rolls does not indicate a problem. Robert Rector, who studies welfare for the Heritage Foundation, a private group in Washington, said the drop was simply a recovery from a period through the early 1990's when access to food stamps and other assistance became too easy.
"In the late 80's and early 90's you had this notion of one-stop shopping, getting people on as many benefits as you could," Mr. Rector said. "A lot of the decline now is hyped."
He said that Congress would do well to make food stamps less readily available, by instituting work requirements and other rules similar to those already imposed on other forms of assistance.
But Agriculture Department officials are pushing the states to be sure their welfare offices are in line with Federal rules, which require prompt processing of food stamp applications.
On Jan. 29, the administrator of the food stamp program, Samuel Chambers Jr., sent a letter to the commissioners of welfare and food stamp programs in every state urging them to review their policies to make sure they do not violate Federal law.
Federal officials had been particularly concerned with the situation in New York City, where newly revamped welfare offices, now called job centers, were delaying food stamp applications and often directing applicants to private food pantries instead.
After a Federal judge last month ruled that the city food stamp process violated Federal law, the city promised to change its practices.
In recent days, the city made another, unrelated policy change that city officials say will trim several thousand people from food stamp rolls. Under the 1996 package of Federal welfare changes, single able-bodied adults can be cut off from food stamps after three months if they do not work at least 20 hours a week or participate in a workfare program.
Counties can seek waivers to the work requirement if they have high unemployment rates, and for two years the counties in New York City had all sought the waivers, preserving the food aid.
This year, though, the city has chosen not to seek the waivers, so that city residents who are single and able to work must find work or lose their food stamps, said Deborah Sproles, a spokeswoman for the city Human Resources Administration.
Yesterday, private groups focused on poverty issues criticized the city's decision, saying it could put as many as 25,000 people at risk of hunger. But, Ms. Sproles said, "this is part of the city's overall effort to start helping people gain self-reliance."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Fewer People Seeking Food Stamps"
The number of people and households in the United States receiving food stamps has been dropping. Graph shows the average monthly participation for each fiscal year since 1988, ending in September. (Source: Department of Agriculture)(pg. A22)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (83%); FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (83%); FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FOOD STAMPS (96%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); FOOD SECURITY (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEDICAID (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); 

PERSON: SHIRLEY R WATKINS (68%); NANCY L JOHNSON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



571 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 11; Column 1; Circuits

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: How a Chip Makes a Greeting Card Burst Into (Fuzzy) Song

BYLINE: By MATT LAKE

 BODY:
ON the outside, it looks like a regular greeting card. A little bulky, perhaps, and a little heavier than you'd expect, but otherwise, nothing out of the ordinary. But when you open it, a tune begins and a movie-preview voice booms out a message. Yes, this is a singing, talking greeting card. Although cards like these have been around for decades, they are still enough of a novelty to take you by surprise. And some of them even let senders record their own songs or messages.
The technology that underlies such cards is a mixture of different sciences: microelectronics, old-fashioned mechanics and economics. On a novelty item like this, price is of the essence. While people will spring for $3 for an ordinary card, they won't go much above that for one that sings. Fortunately, an inexpensive sound chip does most of the work. A leading chip, the tiny Chipcorder (from Information Storage Devices), not only provides enough room to record a short message or jingle, but also integrates sound filters and amplifiers -- all on a silicon chip so small that six of them could fit comfortably on a postage stamp. 
 Chipcorders record analog sound, not the digital sound usually associated with microelectronics, and for good reasons. For one, it cuts out the expense of the two converters needed by computer sound cards and modems to convert analog signals into digital signals, then reverse the process. Since analog sound does not need to be encoded and compressed like digital sound, it takes up much less storage space, which also keeps costs down.
These sound-recording chips were first marketed in the early 1990's for use in telephone answering machines, portable dictation devices and interactive books. But since chips with relatively short recording times of 10 or 20 seconds can be manufactured quite cheaply, they migrated naturally to novelty items like greeting cards. At the beginning of 1998, they also found their way into more than 12,000 New York City taxicabs: They are the technology behind the celebrity voices that remind you to buckle up, pick up a receipt and take all your belongings when you leave.
Regardless of what they are used for, Chipcorders need a signal to tell them to start playing. That is the only mechanical part of the whole operation, and it is very low tech. In greeting cards, the circuit board containing the Chipcorder is glued to a paper mounting. A plastic tab keeps two electrical contacts from touching each other and closing a circuit.
The paper mounting attached to the end of the plastic tab is then glued over the fold in the greeting card. Opening the card draws the tab back; it slips out from between the two contacts, allowing the circuit to be completed. The resulting electrical signal tells the Chipcorder to play. (In taxicabs, the Chipcorders' play signal comes from turning the meter on or off.)
The chips can easily be recorded over, for at least tens of thousands of repeat recordings. But not all singing greeting cards allow you to record your own messages, because it costs more to include that capability. All Chipcorders have the capacity for re-recording, but for customers to record their own sounds requires that each card have an additional switch and a microphone, and those cost money to buy and install. Even though they are relatively small items, they push up the selling price of a card to around $10, which is steep even for the high-margin greeting cards market.
It's economics that has prevented audio greeting cards from becoming widespread. The typical outlets for greeting cards -- bookstores, drugstores, card shops and, increasingly, supermarkets -- are high-overhead enterprises that pay close attention to profit margins. Depending on the outlet, regular cards retail for $1 to $4, with about half of that being profit. The Chipcorder, batteries and speaker can cost what a retail outlet is prepared to pay for a card, pricing singing cards out of the retail channel. So some big card companies that have experimented with singing cards, like Gibson Greetings, no longer manufacture them.
Direct sales over the Internet may, however, keep the cards singing. Sea Joi, listed at iMall (www.imall.com), has, like all Internet merchants, low overhead, and sells a line with prerecorded tunes or spoken messages for around the retail price of a regular card. For about three times as much, it also sells cards with tiny built-in microphones for recording your own 10-second messages. But there's a problem with these record-your-own-message cards: If you think it's hard to record an answering-machine greeting, think of the pressure you're under when your lips are close to a card and you have a 10-second time limit.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Diagram: "But Can It Dance?"
The singing greeting card, an idea whose time may or may not come, is a mixture of low and high technology. As to whether it will ever take over the greeting card market: Que sera, sera.
 
THE CARD breaks into song, and sometimes a message, too (recorded by the card company or by the sender), when you open it. The movement pulls back a plastic tab that separates two electrical connectors, allowing them to meet and complete a circuit. Then the sound chip and speaker play what is in the chip's memory.
 
THE CHIP is mounted on a small circuit board with minuscule batteries and a speaker. Some cards have microphones that let buyers record songs (or, perhaps for tone-deaf consumers, poems or messages).
 
THE SOUND in musical cards is stored in a square silicon chip less than a quarter of an inch across that includes memory cells, filters and an amplifier. This analog EEPROM (Erasable Electrically Programmable Read-Only Memory) chip has cells that can store sound in analog rather than digital form. Digital EEPROM chips store the sound signal as either an electrical charge, or the absence of a charge, in each memory cell: that corresponds, in the language of a computer, to a zero or a one. The Chipcorder analog cell, on the other hand, can store up to eight times as much information in each memory cell by recording many distinct voltage levels in each cell. This type of memory can be recorded over many times and does not require a constant stream of electricity to hold its information, the way computer RAM does.
 
Inside Memory Chips
 
IN AN ANALOG MEMORY CHIP
More than 200 levels of voltage can be stored in one cell.
 
IN A DIGITAL MEMORY CHIP
Only one of two voltage levels can be recorded.
 
MICROPHONE
Translates sound into electricity.
 
AMPLIFIER
Increases the strength of the signal.
 
FILTER
Cleans up the signal to reduce line noise.
 
MEMORY
Stores the information (electrical signals) needed to play back the sound.
 
FILTER
Again, cleans up the signal.
 
SPEAKER
Translates electrical signals back into sound waves.
 
(Illustraton by Mika Grondahl)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: INFORMATION STORAGE DEVICES INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSIC (77%); COMPUTER CHIPS (75%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



572 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section G;Page 1;Column 2;Circuits

LENGTH: 1932 words

HEADLINE: You Want Fries With That Web Site?

BYLINE: By BONNIE ROTHMAN MORRIS

 BODY:
ARON LEIFER has all the trappings of a businessman worth more than a million dollars. He has invested in a marina in London and a rental property in Rhode Island. He has a stock portfolio. He pays a driver $850 weekly to ferry him around New York in his 1998 Infiniti Q45. But Mr. Leifer has something most moguls do not have: a mother who frequently checks his E-mail for pornography. Aron Leifer is 18 years old.
Mr. Leifer, of Borough Park, Brooklyn, is about four years ahead of Steve Jobs, the Apple co-founder who became a multimillionaire in his early 20's. Bill Gates had to wait until he was 30 to join the millionaires' club. Mr. Leifer said he hoped to take his computer software company, Multi Media Audiotext, public within six months and join the rank of the multimillionaires. He quit school, a yeshiva, at the age of 16 and now works 14-hour days serving clients around the globe, including Bell Atlantic, Hewlett Packard, Fleet Bank and many telecommunications and Internet marketing companies. Mr. Leifer is the latest in a quickly growing group of young people, most of them young men, getting rich from their computer businesses. 
 Before he started his company, Mr. Leifer hadn't earned a dime in his life. "I have never, ever done anything, not even baby-sitting, that people do when they are my age, that generated money," he said. "Almost all my family are people that work for someone else." Mr. Leifer studies the Talmud two hours a day with a rabbi he hired to tutor him privately, and both his father and grandfather are Hasidic rabbis. But at 18, Mr. Leifer is, as his Web site denotes, a technology master (www.technologymaster .com) who writes software for things like database management and computer phone systems.
Mr. Leifer is exceptional, even compared with other get-rich-quick kids. But the Internet has spawned a group of teen-agers who think nothing of setting up on-line versions of yesteryear's lemonade stands.
Many of these entrepreneurs have followed a similar path. Their first computers were purchased for the usual reasons: the parents or child wanted one. What happened next is also consistent from child to child. Once their fingertips touched down on those keyboards, they started to build better mousetraps almost immediately, either by writing programs or designing their own Web sites for fun. Finally, someone, usually an adult, told them that they could make some money selling what they knew.
That is what Jay Leibowitz of Northridge, Calif., who turned 17 earlier this month, said he had done to make his first $30,000 or $40,000. At the time of that first big success, Mr. Leibowitz was 14. When he was 12, he taught himself a programming language, Visual Basic, and used it to write two software programs, one for running DOS commands in Windows and another that allowed the user to edit batch files, which contain series of instructions for a computer to follow.
Mr. Leibowitz put the software he designed onto Compuserve in its shareware area. Users who downloaded the program and liked it sent Mr. Leibowitz checks. The big money came when he sold the rights to the shareware to "some guy whose name I forget," he said.
Instead of using the profits to buy a new snowboard, a set of golf clubs or any other toy a 14-year-old boy might crave, Mr. Leibowitz plunged his earnings directly into the stock market. In two and a half years, he said, he has quadrupled his money and now estimates his net worth at $120,000. Now, for fun and a little profit (about $1,200 a month), he runs an advertiser-supported site called Streetwhiz (www.streetwhiz.com), which teaches investing basics and is aimed at young people.
Mr. Leibowitz's mother, Carolyn, who is a nurse, recently asked him about the viability of investing in municipal bonds. Mr. Leibowitz is looking into his mother's query. He heard in December that he had not been admitted to Harvard under its early admission program but was being considered in its pool of regular-admission applicants.
"The reason so many kids are in computer-generated businesses is because they have the edge over the adult population," said Marilyn Kourilsky, vice president of the Ewing Marion Kauffman Center for Entrepreneurial Leadership in St. Louis and a former economics professor at the University of California at Los Angeles who has done extensive research on entrepreneurship and youth. "These kids were brought up on computers. The smart kid in school you wouldn't buy Girl Scout cookies from can now sell you a lot while wearing his pajamas, not having brushed his teeth and surrounded by 25 bags of potato chips." These youngsters do not need to have the social graces of skilled business people, she added; they are anonymous entrepreneurs.
"I was the archetypal computer nerd," said Dan Finley, a college freshman from Federal Way, Wash., who started a Web site to review computer hardware, called The View (www.the-view.com), when he was 16. (Mr. Finley turned 18 on Jan. 23, he said proudly.)
He has encountered some bumps along the way. A company once sent Mr. Finley a $6,000 printer to review, but his computer was too puny to make the printer work properly.
"It was unbelievable -- at one point our living room was a vast storage area" for computer equipment, said Hal Finley, Dan's father. The elder Mr. Finley said he had not minded circling around the room to get to the sofa because his son's business endeavors were a "cost-effective usage of his education."
"I'd discourage lawn mowing or anything less than what he's capable of doing," the father said. "He's an A student."
Now Dan Finley works on The View five hours a week and has 20 writers working for him. After paying his writers, he clears about $500 monthly from advertising income. In the works is a new Web site, Pre Amp, to review music. Mr. Finley has already been in touch with record companies for review copies of new work, now that he has a track record on the Web. He is also looking for writers. Mr. Finley, an economics major at Claremont McKenna College in Los Angeles, just bought his own car, computer, couch and school books with his earnings. He described himself as a "saver" and said he managed to save "25 to 26 percent" of what he earned. His next step is to invest in mutual funds, now that he is legally an adult.
"Being under 18 is a pain," Dan Finley said. "You can't sign contracts, can't get a credit card; every bank account you have has to have a parent's name on it. It's always been frustrating to me." He admitted that he was eager to break away from his parents financially and assume more risk.
Even though Mr. Finley yearns for the freedom granted any adult entrepreneur, being underage has given him an edge.
"Right now people think it's cute because they're young," Dr. Kourilsky said. "I'm sure they thought Bill Gates was adorable. It's very hard to say no to a kid."
Young entrepreneurs also have other advantages over their competition: without mortgages to pay, mouths to feed and car insurance bills, these kids are willing to undercut the competition.
They are even willing to trade goods for services to get their foot in the door. Sam Roberts, 12, offered that deal to his first client, Todd Strasser, who writes popular novels for preteen-agers.
Mr. Strasser's most popular book is "How I Created My Perfect Prom Date." He wanted a teen-ager-friendly Web site to communicate with his fans, so he called on Sam, then 11 and a neighbor in Westchester County, to help him design one. (www. toddstrasser.com).
Sam was already a proven commodity in computers when he hooked up with Mr. Strasser. In the third grade, at age 8, he came in first in a design contest sponsored by a software company and won a 20-inch television with a VCR attached and $1,500 worth of movie tickets. He agreed to design a Web site for Mr. Strasser in exchange for a computer game.
"Sam understands what needs to be done so clearly," Mr. Strasser said. "He even came up with some great lines to describe the books." Mr. Strasser has since paid Sam with sneakers and software to update the site and has recommended Sam's services to other friends who are writers.
Sam, flush with success after that first job, decided to start his own Web page design company, Webman, with a partner, Michael Greenberg, another seventh grader in his school. They determined their price and got to work. But trouble was afoot when Michael set up his own company to design Web sites and business cards, calling himself Web Man Productions. The partnership dissolved.
"We're friends as long as we don't talk about our Web site companies," said Sam, who can be found at www.webman.tsx.org.
Teen-agers like Sam Roberts are proving the title of a popular self-help book: "Do What You Love, the Money Will Follow," by Marsha Sinetar (Paulist Press, 1986). Young entrepreneurs excel by starting businesses they are "keenly and personally interested in," said James B. Hayes, president of Junior Achievement, a 79-year-old organization set up to help children learn about the free enterprise system. These days, the computer is an easy starting point, he said.
The young entrepreneurs who make it, though, seem to approach the machine in a different way.
"Sam is the only 12-year-old I know who erases his pornographic messages because he hates wasting the time and thinks it is inappropriate," said Steven Roberts, Sam Roberts's father, by E-mail. "The computer opened up his imagination."
Even though they make money and run businesses, most of these young business people are well rounded.
Mr. Leifer, with his circumscribed life of Torah study three times a day and round-the-clock business dealings, is the exception. Still, he admitted that he would like to get his driver's license (he said he could not find the two hours needed to take the test), and, eventually, to marry.
Mr. Leibowitz is captain of his high school golf team and has a 6 handicap. He also runs the investors' club at his school.
Mr. Finley shares the job of music director at his college radio station, works at the student union restaurant and can be found at midnight every Thursday playing Ultimate Frisbee with his pals.
Sam Roberts plays soccer, basketball and baseball and is studying for his bar mitzvah in March.
And none of them have plans to stop producing their computer products.
"I consider myself to be relatively ambitious," Mr. Leibowitz said. "I like to learn about things, and I don't see what prevents me from learning stuff. I know it may sound precocious. Some people know how to surf. I know how to be an entrepreneur."
 
Getting Rich While Young
There is no simple recipe for becoming a teen-age millionaire, but people who have been there have a few suggestions:
* Don't make earning money the goal. None of these teen-agers even thought about making money until they started earning some from doing what they loved.
* Work for no pay. For a little while, at least -- then start charging. Aron Leifer of Brooklyn, a millionaire at 18, built his client base by answering programming questions at no charge. Later, clients felt comfortable giving him their business.
* Stay focused. These young people finish what they start.
* Be a self-promoter. When Dan Finley, a college freshman and Web site entrepreneur, was in high school, he often spoke to groups about his business.
* Enter contests. Winning helps jump-start careers.
* Avoid television. Oh, except for "Dawson's Creek," "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and "The X-Files." (These are kids, after all).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 1999, Monday

 CORRECTION:
Two picture credits in Circuits on Thursday, with an article about young computer entrepreneurs, were reversed. The photograph of Sam Roberts, 12, with Todd Strasser, an author, was by Craig Wallace Dale for The New York Times. The one of Dan Finley, 18, was by Walt Weis for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: Photos: EARLY STARTS -- Young business people have found ways to make computer skills pay off. Sam Roberts, 12, designed a Web site for Todd Strasser, an author, at left. (Walt Weis for The New York Times); Dan Finley, above, reviews computer hardware on his Web site. (Craig Wallace Dale for The New York Times)(pg. G7);
 
Chart/Photos:
Aron Leifer, 18
BUSINESS: Multi Media Audiotext, a computer software company.
HOME: Borough Park, Brooklyn.
BOTTOM LINE: His net worth is more than a million dollars, and he plans to take his company public within six months.
 
Dan Finley, 18
BUSINESS: The View, a Web site that reviews computer hardware and attracts advertisers. He plans to open a music-review site.
HOME: Federal Way, Wash.
BOTTOM LINE: He clears about $500 per month
 
Sam Roberts, 12
BUSINESS: Webman, which designs Web sites.
HOME: Westchester County.
BOTTOM LINE: His talents have brought him a television, $1,500 worth of movie tickets, sneakers, and software.
 
(Photographs for The New York Times by Steve Hart (top), Walt Weis (above) and Craig Wallace Dale (bottom)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (88%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); MUSIC REVIEWS (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); PORNOGRAPHY (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); VISUAL BASIC PROGRAMMING (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (64%); RELIGION (63%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (55%); 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (87%); BILL GATES (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999



573 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN GAINS. The dollar fell against the yen after Japan signaled that it would not print more currency to help end its recession. In New York, the yen settled at 119.63 to the dollar, improved from 121.80 late Wednesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since Aug., 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



574 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: January Offered No Signs Of Slowdown inEconomy

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
Home resales set a record in January and factory orders for durable goods unexpectedly jumped, calling into question the Federal Reserve's forecast of a slowdown in economic growth this year.
Resales of single-family homes rose eight-tenths of a percent last month, to an annual rate of 5.07 million, after rising 3.1 percent in December, the National Association of Realtors said. Last year's sales total of 4.8 million houses was a record. 
 Durable goods orders rose 3.9 percent last month, Commerce Department figures showed, as a December surge in aircraft orders at the Boeing Company finally showed up in the Government's data. It was the biggest gain in durable goods orders in more than a year and came on top of a 3.4 percent increase a month earlier. Analysts had forecast a small decline for January.
"I'm still sitting here in shock over these numbers," said Veronika White, an economist at the First Union Bank Corporation in Philadelphia. "This economy has an awful lot of momentum, and I don't see a whole lot to slow it down."
Meanwhile, the number of workers applying for state unemployment benefits fell by 5,000 last week, to a seasonally adjusted 293,000, after increasing 14,000, to 298,000, the week before, the Labor Department said. The four-week average for jobless claims, a less volatile measure of employment conditions, fell to 292,500 -- the lowest level since Feb. 4, 1989 -- from 294,500 the previous week. Analysts had expected jobless claims to rise last week.
Housing is riding a wave of low mortgage rates, high consumer confidence and robust employment. Mortgage rates crept up in January, and the average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage rose 7 basis points, to 6.89 percent, this week, according to statistics compiled by Freddie Mac. Still, 30-year rates have stayed below 7 percent, where they have been since mid-June. The average 30-year mortgage rate in January was 6.79 percent, up from December's 6.72 percent, the figures showed.
January's overall increase in durable goods orders was the largest since a 4.4 percent gain in November 1997, although outside of transportation, orders rose just four-tenths of 1 percent, the Commerce Department said.
The level of orders, $203.425 billion, was the highest on record, the department added. In December, orders rose a revised 3.4 percent; previously, the Government reported December durable goods orders increased 3.1 percent.
Often there is a delay between the time a company reports new orders and the time when the Government posts new orders in its reports. The January durables jump reflected a surge in aircraft orders, which Boeing, the world's largest aircraft maker, first reported in December.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Ordered" shows manufacturer's total new orders for durable goods, from Aug. 1997 through Jan. 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP BOEING CO (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FIRST UNION BANK OF CONNECTICUT (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); DURABLE GOODS (92%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



575 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
Shades of Democrats In Ad From the G.O.P.

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: ASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
Today's pop quiz: Was this full-page newspaper advertisement the handiwork of the Democratic or Republican Party?
In the advertisement, addressed to the American people, readers are told: "We are committed to saving Social Security for today's seniors, tomorrow's baby boomers and for their children. As important as Social Security is for the nation's retirees, we also need to create the world's best schools for our children." 
 And, in a nod to blue-collar voters, the advertisement says, "Our plan to ease the tax burden will put more money in the pockets of middle-class Americans so they can provide more for their families, while making Government less wasteful and more efficient."
With its Democratic buzzwords and its photographs of an African-American family, an elderly couple, a female teacher and a man in a military uniform, the advertisement looks and sounds like it came out of the White House public relations' shop -- or from the Democratic leadership in Congress.
Surprise, surprise. The advertisement was signed by Senator Trent Lott, the Republican leader, and the House Speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, and paid for by the Republican National Committee. It appeared on Tuesday in USA Today, and the party sent it in the form of a "letter to the editor" to hundreds of newspapers nationwide.
The "open letter" is the latest demonstration of how Republicans are trying to repair their image after impeachment and to strike an accommodating tone with the public, and perhaps even with the Democrats.
Yet even some Republicans in the capital are grousing that the advertisement may as well have featured a white flag rather than an American flag in the background.
On virtually every issue cited -- whether the budget, welfare reform, crime, Social Security or education -- polls show that the public now trusts Democrats as much as or more than Republicans.
"It's quite a departure," said Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, who allowed that he, happily, could have signed the advertisement. "Some are saying, 'Two or three years ago, we would have paid for an ad to run like that in the early Gingrich days.' "
James Carville, President Clinton's sharp-tongued political adviser, put it this way: "There's not one thing in that ad that I'm not vehemently for. There's maybe a little too much class warfare even for me. The reverse would be the Democrats running an ad saying, 'The burden of regulation is stifling economic growth in America. And the tax code is so complicated that there are more words in it than the Bible and the Koran put together.' "
Deriding such critics, Mike Collins, a spokesman for the Republican Party, said, "Since when do Democrats have a monopoly on working people? They're the ones who have been taxing working men and women 40 percent of their income. This ad was a way for the Republicans to ratify to the American people -- as we did in '94 -- what we were sent here to do."
The advertisement was hatched by Representative J. C. Watts Jr., the new chairman of the House Republican Conference, who took the idea to Mr. Hastert, who then took it to Mr. Lott.
Mr. Carville's critique spurred Lauren Maddox, Mr. Watts's spokeswoman, to ask: "Is James really going to join our party? The door's always open."
Kidding aside, the advertisement unnerved conservatives who for years have accused Mr. Clinton and the Democrats of appropriating their issues.
"The underlying message," said William W. Pascoe 3d, political director of the American Conservative Union, "is: 'We want to be bipartisan. We're not just the party of impeachment.' But I don't know that we have any issues left to drive wedges into the Democratic coalition. Nobody has a clue as to an agenda that will light a fire under the American people."
The advertisement does contain clues that it was the work of Republicans. It offers more praise, for example, for the Republican-controlled Congress than for the Democratic White House. "Congress has succeeded in implementing policies that work for the American people," it says. And it calls for strengthening the military, asserting, "Shrinking defense resources have worn down our equipment and hurt troop morale." (But even in their oratory, Democrats like to toss in a line now and then about the importance of a vigorous defense.)
Mr. Daschle was more concerned about what was not in the advertisement.
"Obviously, there are a lot of omissions," he said. "They don't have some of the other things that we would want to protect Medicare, patient's bill of rights, minimum wage, campaign finance reform. But clearly the agenda that they've articulated is one that we're very excited about -- and have been pushing for years, if not decades."
But Jorge Martinez, who works for a Republican consulting firm that put the finishing touches on the advertisement, warned that Democrats had better not gloat. "They're jealous, of course," he said, "because they didn't think of it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: USA TODAY USA TODAY (55%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: USA TODAY REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ADVERTISING; PUBLIC OPINION; IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); AGING (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); TAX LAW (75%); BUDGETS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (60%); RELIGION (60%); BABY BOOMERS (57%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; LOTT, TRENT (SEN); HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) TRENT LOTT (73%); BILL CLINTON (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



576 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Urged to Reduce Nuclear Arsenal to Revive Russian Talks

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
A coalition of nuclear-weapons experts called on the Clinton Administration today to revive stalled arms-control negotiations with Russia by making a series of bold and, if necessary, unilateral gestures to reduce nuclear stockpiles and build confidence.
In a report issued here, the Committee on Nuclear Policy, which represents a variety of arms-control organizations and research groups, said the Administration was losing the initiative by waiting indefinitely for the Russian Parliament to ratify the second strategic arms reduction treaty, or Start II, before taking new steps to reduce nuclear weapons. 
 Instead, the experts recommended, the United States and Russia should each begin to reduce total stockpiles to 1,000 nuclear weapons, including strategic and battlefield warheads. At the peak of the cold war each side had more than 10,000 warheads, but the total number of nuclear weapons -- bombs or missiles -- has never been made public.
The experts -- who include the former Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara and Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster, a former NATO commander -- also said both sides should take more missiles off alert and remove from their war plans options that call for massive nuclear strikes.
Although the committee said that the United States and Russia should work together on these objectives, it concluded that the Administration could by itself give new impetus to arms control and reduce what the experts view as dangerous instability in Russia's nuclear forces.
"To continue to rely solely on the stalemated Start process is to needlessly increase the costs and risks of maintaining U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals at levels well in excess of what is needed to deter an attack," the committee's report concluded.
Under Start I, signed in 1991, the United States and Russia have reduced their strategic nuclear warheads from more than 10,000 to about 6,000. Start II would reduce each side's arsenal to 3,000 to 3,500 warheads. The Senate approved the treaty in 1995, but it has languished in Russia's Parliament for six years.
Although President Boris N. Yeltsin's Government supports ratification, votes have been repeatedly postponed, mostly recently in the wake of December's American-led raids on Iraq, which Russia opposed.
Robert G. Bell, special assistant to the President for defense policy and arms control at the National Security Council, said the recommendations were "well intentioned" but went too far. "At the end of the day, the proposals are too ambitious and too idealistic," he said.
But the coalition, coordinated by the Henry L. Stimson Center in Washington, cited President Bush's sweeping, unilateral decision in 1991 to remove tactical nuclear weapons from overseas bases and from surface ships and to take 1,000 warheads on B-52's and some missiles off alert. President Mikhail S. Gorbachev quickly reciprocated, clearing the way for the Start II agreements.
Michael Krepon, president of the Stimson Center, an independent military research organization, said the Administration -- and Congress -- had not paid enough attention to the extent of the deterioration of Russia's nuclear forces, driven by its collapsing economy.
"They'll become very focused on this problem after something terrible happens," he said.
The committee also called on the Administration to spend far more to improve safeguards for Russia's nuclear arsenal. Mr. Clinton has proposed increasing such spending to $4.5 billion over the next five years, from the $2.5 billion now budgeted.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMITTEE ON NUCLEAR POLICY NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE ON NUCLEAR POLICY NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TREATIES NUCLEAR WEAPONS (98%); MILITARY WEAPONS (97%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (93%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); APPROVALS (69%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



577 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks to End 'Mixed Messages' Over Lockerbie Suspects

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 25

 BODY:
On the eve of a review of economic sanctions against Libya, the Clinton Administration has asked Secretary General Kofi Annan to handle all communications with Tripoli about the turnover of two suspects wanted in the 1988 bombing of a Pan American flight over Lockerbie, Scotland, Mr. Annan indicated today.
The Administration has also asked Mr. Annan to discourage efforts by two envoys from Saudi Arabia and South Africa to give Libya further assurances about the trial, the treatment of the suspects or sanctions if the men are handed over, according to Administration officials and diplomats involved in the consultations. 
 The decision to narrow the mediation effort reflects what one diplomat and American officials called growing concern that Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, might be receiving "mixed messages" from Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi Ambassador to Washington, and Jakes Gerwel, an emissary from the South African President, Nelson Mandela. Each envoy has made more than one trip to Tripoli trying to break the impasse between Libya and the Security Council over where and how the suspects should be turned over and tried, and the fate of sanctions imposed on Libya in 1992.
An Administration official said that as the sanctions review approached and efforts to resolve the crisis intensified, there was "growing concern" in Britain and the United States that Colonel Qaddafi might be hearing assurances that neither the United States nor Britain would agree to.One diplomat expressed concern that "we were not all reading from the same script."
Mr. Annan confirmed that he had met with Prince Bandar and Mr. Gerwel on Tuesday in Washington. He said he was "very appreciative" of all that the envoys had done at his request to help clarify the procedures under which Libya would hand over the men for trial in a Scottish court in the Netherlands.
While refusing to disclose specific content, Mr. Annan said that he had told the envoys that the issue was "in the final stages before a decision."
The Libyans, Mr. Annan said today, had asked for reassurances on one or two issues, which he refused to disclose, but which diplomats said involved the eventual lifting of sanctions. But he said he believed that the time for further clarifications and assurances had passed. "It's decision time," Mr. Annan said. Libya, he added, "must decide based on all the explanations they have heard whether or not to move forward."
Last December, the Secretary General traveled to Libya, diplomats said, after Colonel Qaddafi suggested through emissaries that he was prepared for a breakthrough if Mr. Annan made the visit. There was considerable disappointment in Washington and New York when Mr. Qaddafi continued seeking further clarifications and assurances instead of turning over the suspects, Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah.
This afternoon, Mr. Annan met with Abuzed Omar Dorda, Libya's Ambassador to the United Nations, apparently to emphasize his view that the time for a decision had come, diplomats said.
Peter Burleigh, the American representative at the United Nations, said the Administration agreed. "The time for procrastination is over," he said. "We need action now from the Libyans."
But immediate action is not likely, despite President Clinton's recent promise to seek stronger measures against Libya if it doesn't comply with demands that the men be handed over. On Friday Mr. Annan is expected to report to the Security Council on the issue.
But diplomats here said there was little chance that the Security Council would approve stronger measures Friday. Instead, the officials and diplomats said, the Council is expected to ask Libya to provide a definitive answer about whether it will turn over the suspects within a specified time period, which some said would be 30 days.
Officials familiar with the Libyan consultations say that Colonel Qaddafi's major concern is whether the economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations against Libya will be lifted. A Security Council resolution approved last August states that as soon as the Council has been informed that the suspects have safely arrived in the Netherlands, sanctions are to be "suspended immediately," and 90 days later could be formally lifted.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SCOTLAND (91%); NETHERLANDS (53%); 

CITY: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYA; LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND); SAUDI ARABIA; SOUTH AFRICA; GREAT BRITAIN; LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SCOTLAND (91%); NETHERLANDS (53%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (77%); AIRLINES (72%); TERRORISM (72%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



578 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: The Atrocity Findings: 'The Historic Facts Must Be Recognized'

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: GUATEMALA, Feb. 25

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a statement today by Christian Tomuschat, coordinator of the Historical Clarification Commission, on atrocities during the Guatemalan civil war:
The commission has been able to establish that state forces and allied paramilitary groups were responsible for 93 percent of the documented violations, that the insurgent forces were responsible for 3 percent and that the remaining 4 percent of the cases include other authors. . . . 
We have reached the conclusion that the structure and nature of the economic, cultural and social relationships in Guatemala, as well as racism, the closing of spaces for participation and the refusal by the state to promote substantive reform, were all factors that determined the origin and the outbreak of the armed confrontation.
We have also been able to demonstrate the participation, by various means, of economically powerful groups, political parties, the churches and people at the universities, as well as of other sectors of civil society.
Therefore, the commission has concluded that the fundamental reasons for the Guatemalan armed confrontation cannot be reduced to the simplistic logic of two armed factions. . . .
Such an interpretation cannot explain the persistence and significance that the participation of political parties and economic forces played in the genesis, development and perpetuation of the violence. Nor can it explain the repeated efforts at organization and the constant mobilization of different sectors of the population that struggled to achieve economic, political and cultural change.
Similarly, foreign governments often became involved in Guatemala's internal affairs, and in so doing they contributed to the resolve and perseverance of the armed confrontation.
The commission's investigations demonstrate that until the mid-1980's, the United States Government and U.S. private companies exercised pressure to maintain the country's archaic and unjust socio-economic structure. In addition, the United States Government, through its constituent structures, including the Central Intelligence Agency, lent direct and indirect support to some illegal state operations. At the same time, the commission has information regarding the support given by the Cuban Government to the guerrilla organizations, including military training for combatants. . . .
Believing that the ends justified everything, the military and the state security forces blindly pursued the anti-Communist struggle, without respect for any legal principles or the most elemental ethical and religious values, and in this way completely lost any semblance of human morals. . . . Within the framework of the counterinsurgency operations carried out between 1981 and 1983, in certain regions of the country agents of the Guatemalan state committed acts of genocide against groups of the Mayan people. . . .
The guerrilla groups also committed acts of violence that violated the right to life by means of arbitrary executions directed against the civilian population or defenseless individuals, some of them connected to the confrontation in the cases of military commissioners and members of the civilian patrols. The commission has proved that guerrilla groups were also responsible for the arbitrary execution of some members of their own organizations. . . .
The majority of these acts were the product of a policy pre-established at a high command level hierarchically superior to the direct perpetrators. The state also failed to comply with its obligation to investigate and punish the acts of genocide. . . .
No one can today insure that the immense challenge of reconciliation through truth can be met with success. In order to do so, the historic facts must be recognized and assimilated into each individual consciousness and the collective consciousness. The country's future depends in great part on the response of the state and society to the tragedies suffered in flesh and blood. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA; GUATEMALA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (67%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; MAYANS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; KIDNAPPING; TORTURE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INDIANS, AMERICAN REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLITICS (88%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); TORTURE (78%); RELIGION (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); ETHICS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); RACE & RACISM (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); GENOCIDE (63%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); MILITARY TRAINING (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



579 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Fights Amex-Nasdaq Plan to Move

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Only two months after the New York Stock Exchange agreed to build a new trading complex on Wall Street, landlords and downtown civic leaders are waging a last-ditch effort to keep the American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq from moving to midtown from the city's historic financial district in lower Manhattan.
They contend that the departure of the two stock markets and about 2,500 jobs would undermine the financial district and hurt the downtown office market, which only recently recovered from a devastating recession in the early and mid-1990's. 
 The American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, which are subsidiaries of the National Association of Securities Dealers, have said they would like to move to a new trading floor and a combined headquarters in a proposed skyscraper a block from Times Square, although they are considering several spots downtown as well.
Last November, the city granted the two stock markets a "portable" $200 million package of tax breaks and other incentives that could be used anywhere in Manhattan. Stock brokers, real estate interests and government officials have been awaiting a formal decision on a site ever since, though few believe that there is much chance of a downtown location.
Frank G. Zarb, chairman of the N.A.S.D., is expected to make a final decision within 60 days. To complicate matters, Mr. Zarb has told city and state officials that he wants to reopen the negotiations in light of a far more generous benefits package granted to the New York Stock Exchange.
But while city and state officials struggled to keep the New York Stock Exchange in the financial district, they have taken a "neutral" position on a future home for the American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. Neutrality, downtown advocates contend, effectively encourages a move to midtown and subsidizes office space that is far more expensive than it would be downtown. The Downtown Lower Manhattan Association has also said that the city's position is at odds with the Giuliani administration's often-stated policy to stabilize the downtown area.
In December, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said the city and state's $900 million deal to keep the New York Stock Exchange in Manhattan was justified "because it will keep the financial sector's center of gravity in lower Manhattan."
James F. Gill, chairman of the Battery Park City Authority, which has a vacant parcel in lower Manhattan that could be developed for Nasdaq and the American Exchange, said: "It makes sense to have them in the financial center. The downtown area would suffer. And it would be bizarre to see them at 42d Street and Sixth Avenue."
Although Battery Park is controlled by the state, Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, has shown no inclination to push Mr. Zarb toward lower Manhattan. Mr. Gargano and Deputy Mayor Randy Levine have said the deal was a coup for the city because the National Association of Securities Dealers has agreed to move its headquarters to New York from Washington and to combine its existing operations in New York.
The exact location, they say, is up to Mr. Zarb. Nevertheless, the city and the state have expressed a willingness to use the condemnation process to help the developer, Douglas Durst, assemble a site at 42d Street and the Avenue of the Americas for Nasdaq.
"Zarb doesn't want to be in the shadow of the New York Stock Exchange," one financial executive who works with Mr. Zarb said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. "He wants the forward-looking, go-go image he could get in Times Square."
At the same time, Jerry Speyer, chairman of Tishman Speyer Properties, and John Zuccotti, chairman of Brookdale Financial Properties, which owns the World Financial Center at Battery Park City, have been wooing Nasdaq downtown and vying with each other to build the project.
The debate is only the latest chapter in a sometimes contentious history with the city's financial industry, which accounts for only 5 percent of the jobs in New York but the bulk of the tax revenues. Over the last four years, city and state officials have agreed to provide a total of $1.4 billion in tax breaks, cash and other incentives for four financial markets in Manhattan after each of them made a threat to move to New Jersey.
Despite signing an agreement with the city and the state in November, Mr. Zarb wants a better deal that would make it more economical to move to the midtown site owned by Mr. Durst. The New York Stock Exchange deal is worth about $200,000 per job, compared with about $80,000 per job for the smaller Nasdaq and American Stock Exchange. Two executives with knowledge of the negotiations say Nasdaq is seeking an additional $80 million to $100 million.
"As we go down the road, we're looking at the costs associated with any type of activity in New York and weighing that against the package that is on the table," said Michael Jones, chief administrative officer at N.A.S.D. "At the end of the day, this has to make economic sense."
But city and state officials said they would not renegotiate.
"As far as we're concerned, we've done our financial deal with Nasdaq," said Mr. Levine, the Deputy Mayor.
Real estate experts said a downtown project was not cheaper or more viable unless the city and the state provided additional incentives, or free land, that would function as yet another subsidy.
"We think it's great that the Governor and the Mayor attracted Nasdaq to New York," said Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York. "We realize that the decision about where they locate is ultimately Nasdaq's. But we do hope that at the end of the day, they'll stay downtown."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS NYSE MKT LLC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (90%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (95%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (95%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (95%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TRENDS (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (53%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



580 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Study Faults U.S. Role In Guatemalan Conflict
An international truth commission concluded that the United States gave money and training to a Guatemalan military that committed "acts of genocide" against the country's Mayan people during Guatemala's 36-year civil war, which ended in 1996. The report also provides more details about how the C.I.A. and the Defense Department aided Guatemalan military forces. A1
 
Serbian Buildup Near Kosovo
Yugoslavia has massed 4,500 troops on the border with Kosovo, the Pentagon said, jeopardizing progress toward peace and challenging Washington to enforce an agreement that limits Yugoslav forces in Kosovo. A11 

New Call for Amnesty
Deputy President Thabo Mbeki wants South Africa to consider a new round of amnesties for apartheid-era human rights violators who ignored the chance to confess all to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. A10
 
U.N. to Handle Libya Talks
The Clinton Administration, on the eve of a review of economic sanctions against Libya, has asked Secretary General Kofi Annan to handle all communications with Tripoli about the turnover of two suspects in the bombing of a Pan American flight over Scotland in 1988. A3
 
Palestinians Reject Israeli Offer
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu recently made a quiet offer to the Palestinians to carry out a couple of Israel's obligations under the frozen peace agreement signed last fall, but the offer was rebuffed. A3
 
U.S. Urged to Reduce Arsenal
A coalition of nuclear-weapons experts called on the Clinton Administration to revive stalled arms control negotiations with Russia by making a series of bold and, if necessary, unilateral gestures to reduce nuclear stockpiles and build confidence. A9
 
More Details on U.N. Nominee
While still at the State Department, Richard C. Holbrooke, President Clinton's nominee for chief delegate to the United Nations, opened job negotiations with a large investment bank a few months after intervening to help it win a consulting contract, a State Department report says, adding that there was no evidence that Mr. Holbrooke was offered a job. A5
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A10-15
 
Labor Scores Big Victory In Los Angeles Effort
The Service Employees International Union won the biggest unionization drive in more than half a century, gaining the right to represent 74,000 Los Angeles County home-care workers who feed, bathe and clean for the elderly and disabled. California officials who counted ballots said that 16,250 workers had voted for the union and 1,925 against it. The union effort demonstrated the labor movement's new aggressiveness and focus on recruiting low-wage workers, women and minorities. A1
 
Death Penalty in Race Killing
A jury in Jasper, Tex., decided that John William King, 24, a white supremacist, should be put to death for the dragging murder of James Byrd Jr., a black man, last year. A1
 
Israel Refuses Extradition
The Israeli Supreme Court ruled that Samuel Sheinbein, 18, an American charged with murder in Maryland, should not be extradited because he is also an Israeli citizen. An Israeli court will try Mr. Sheinbein. A12
 
Cruise Ship Line Indicted
A Federal grand jury in Los Angeles has indicted Royal Caribbean Cruises on charges of making false statements to the Coast Guard about oily waste discharges in 1994. A12
 
Drug-Resistant Bacteria
Bacteria resistant to the most powerful antibiotics used to treat infections in people have been found in chicken feed, researchers say. A12
 
New Release of Nixon Tapes
President Richard M. Nixon mused about break-ins at foreign embassies, discussed blaming President John F. Kennedy for the murder of South Vietnam's leader, and talked about domestic spying efforts, in newly released tapes and transcripts of White House conversations. A13
 
Campaign Overhaul Is Sought
A bipartisan group of House members called on the new Speaker, Dennis Hastert, to allow a vote early this year on a bill to overhaul the nation's campaign finance system. A15
 
Bush Set to Take First Step
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas will seek the Republican Presidential nomination and will establish an exploratory committee in two weeks, advisers said. Mr. Bush promised an announcement of some sort then. A15
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-12
 
Parading of Suspect Is Ruled Unconstitutional
The Police Department's walking of a burglary suspect before a television station's camera violated his Constitutional rights, a Federal judge said. The ruling came in a civil suit against the city by the suspect, who seeks damages for embarrassment and harm to his reputation. A1
 
Union Regains Local Control
Teamsters Local 560 in New Jersey, which was once in the grip of the Genovese crime family, was released from a 13-year Federal trusteeship. B1
 
Accusations of Bias
Republican and Democratic members of the City Council traded accusations of racism after the Council's seven Republicans defended Mayor Giuliani against criticism in the police shooting death of Amadou Diallo in the Bronx. B3
 
A Reminder From Winter
A powerful winter storm churned slowly over the Northeast, covering the eastern end of Long Island and coastal regions of New England with thick snow. Meteorologists predicted an easing of conditions today, as the storm headed out to sea. B5
 
Effort to Keep Markets in Place
Landlords and downtown civic leaders are waging a last-ditch effort to keep the American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq from moving to midtown from the city's financial district in lower Manhattan. B3
 
Justice Stepping Down
Justice Stewart G. Pollock said he would resign in September, giving Governor Whitman the opportunity to make her third appointment to New Jersey's highest court. B5
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
OBITUARIES A19
 
WEEKEND E1-36; E37-48
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
'Let's Go, um, YankeeNets!'
The Yankees and the Nets announced their plan to merge into a company called the YankeeNets and promised that each team would continue to operate separately. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
 
Bonds Take Another Tumble
Bond prices tumbled for the third consecutive session, pushing interest rates to their highest levels since August. Reports of stronger-than-expected factory orders, jobs and home sales gave traders little reason to suspect the pace of economic activity was slowing. The rout in the bond market initially sent stocks reeling, but the major market gauges later pared most of their losses. C1
 
Disney Executive Shuffle
Walt Disney named Robert A. Iger to the new post of president of Walt Disney International and also made him chairman of the ABC Group. Steven M. Bornstein, the former chairman of ESPN and president of ABC Sports, replaces Mr. Iger as president of ABC. C1
 
Upheaval at Saturn Union
All of the union local leaders who made Saturn one of the nation's most prominent experiments in labor relations were voted out by union members, who chose leaders who advocated a more traditional relationship with management. C1
 
Oxford Reduces Its Losses
Oxford Health Plans said its fourth-quarter loss narrowed to $18.8 million, compared with a loss of $284.7 million in the period a year earlier, as the company worked to turn around its financial situation. C3
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Unfinished cold-war business; drug benefits in Medicare; bringing the dogs to heel.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E40
 
TV Listings E35

Public Lives B2
 
Weather B8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (68%); 

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (96%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); ISRAEL (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA (96%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); ISRAEL (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); GENOCIDE (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); AMNESTY (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); MURDER (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (76%); THABO MBEKI (53%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (52%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



581 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Nets' Game Plan: Assists to Youth

BYLINE: By CHRIS BROUSSARD 

 BODY:
Lewis Katz stepped into the world of professional sports last fall, making idealistic proclamations of social good and community uplift. At a time when the National Basketball Association was embroiled in a labor dispute that sullied the public's perception of its players and owners, Katz was emerging as a welcomed, if somewhat hard-to-believe, champion of altruism as the new managing owner and co-chairman of the Nets.
He spoke of donating nearly 40 percent of the team's profits to social-service programs that benefited inner-city youths, of moving the Nets to a new arena in Newark to revitalize business and hope in that decaying urban center, and of using his franchise as a platform for solving urban ills through private enterprise. 
 Now, after yesterday's announcement that the Nets plan to merge with the powerful and storied Yankees, the platform and possibilities have grown tremendously, raising the questions as to just who is Lewis Katz and what are his motivations.
"We are not in ownership to get richer," said Katz, previously the controlling stockholder of Kinney Parking Systems. "We want to bring not only a championship to the franchise, but to elevate it to reaching a higher good in terms of improving the quality of people's lives. We have enough money. What we may not have is enough time to try to help solve the problems."
Katz, 57, solved a burgeoning problem for his noble intentions by partnering the Nets with the Yankees. Instead of having nearly 40 percent of the struggling Nets' profits -- if there are any profits -- go into his social- service endeavors, he will be in position to donate 20 percent of the profits of the much more lucrative YankeeNets, the new company being formed by the two clubs.
A native of Camden, N.J., Katz became involved with the Nets through his friend, Ray Chambers, a well-known New Jersey philanthropist who shuns the attention of the news media and declined interview requests for this article. Last year, when the Nets were on the verge of being sold and relocated to Long Island, Chambers put together 15 investors to purchase two-thirds of the Nets for $150 million. The desire was to keep the team in New Jersey and perhaps ignite a new trend in professional sports ownership, in which at least some profits could be used for social purposes.
Chambers and Katz each invested $25 million into the Nets and then donated their 38 percent stake in the team to their newly formed Community Youth Organization, a nonprofit trust dedicated to assisting inner-city youths in the moribund cities of Newark, Camden, Paterson, Trenton and Jersey City.
So while the other owners of the Nets hope to receive a return on their investments, particularly now that the Nets and Yankees are merging, Chambers and Katz will not, because whatever profit they realize will go to the C.Y.O.
The C.Y.O. will provide such services as scholarships, tutorial programs, nutritional programs and possibly even housing renovation and health care in New Jersey's inner-city neighborhoods. And now that the Nets are joining with the Yankees, the C.Y.O's efforts will almost undoubtedly extend into the South Bronx neighborhood around Yankee Stadium.
"It would be so wonderful if we could start a trend," said Katz, who in conjunction with Chambers has pledged to donate $200,000 a year to the C.Y.O. if there are no profits. "Most guys that own teams probably aren't in need of money. And we think that because sports is a high-visibility business, it just offers more to kids, and maybe the message even gets to the players -- that sports doesn't just have to be about winning and money."
Such high-minded claims become easy targets from cynics. Even Michael Rowe, the Nets president since 1995, admitted to having doubts when first informed of the new owners' intentions. "I was originally skeptical that this was not the real world of the N.B.A. or professional sports," Rowe said. "But the more time I spent with them, the more I thought, 'Why not?' "
Last January, Bill Cosby, an old friend of Katz's when they attended Temple University in the 60's, invested several million dollars in the Nets to join the fold as an adviser to the C.Y.O. In addition to providing a vision and direction for the program, Cosby hopes to help professional athletes better manage their finances and project a more positive image off the court. One person familiar with Cosby's concerns said: "He's tired of waking up and reading about N.B.A. players spending their money irresponsibly and having all of these children out of wedlock. He wants to help them avoid anything that might be a negative influence."
"I didn't come into this to own human beings," Cosby said from a courtside seat at a Nets game last week. "These young men have a chance to be very conservative with their money and then set goals of helping themselves and helping others. That's the ideal that we hope to bring to the Nets and the Yankees."
Cosby and Katz met while working at Temple in a coat room and hit it off immediately because both were aspiring comedians. They teamed up to start a free weekly concert series called "The Hour of Pleasure," but because their budget was so sparse, they would often advertise fictitious acts and then have Cosby perform his comedy routine. "'They would say, 'Sorry, the act canceled at the last minute, but Temple's own Bill Cosby's going to entertain you,' " said Drew Katz, Lewis's son.
Cosby and Katz also bonded over sports. Cosby played on Temple's football team and ran on the track team, and Katz, according to his boyhood friend, Richard Riggs, "always hung around the athletes." While growing up poor in Camden, Katz's favorite sport was basketball. His mother was widowed when he was an infant and he tells of how athletes became his role models to fill the void in his life from not having a father. He recalls pretending to be Paul Arizin of the Philadelphia Warriors while playing on the dirt-and-gravel court near his home.
"One of the things that basketball did for me in terms of values was that it taught me sportsmanship, honest competition and at the same time, gave my life some purpose, " said Katz, who played one year at Camden High School. "I really looked forward to seeing Boston and Philly play the night before Thanksgiving. You grew up identifying with the hometown team."
That is why Katz is so intent on moving the Nets to Newark. He believes that bringing a team back to the inner city will provide not only an economic boon for the area but inspiration to the neighborhood's children, many of whom are growing up fatherless as he did.
"Think about all those residents who will wake up one day and say, 'My God, somebody really cared enough to bring back an N.B.A. team to my city,' " Katz said. "Think about the self-esteem that comes from identifying with that. I know, because that's how it was for me."
A lawyer who once served as the finance chairman for New Jersey's Democratic Party, he struck gold by buying and reviving Kinney Parking Systems. Last year, he sold the company to Central Parking for $225 million.
That enabled him to enter what he calls "the third chapter" of his life -- "the giving-back chapter." It is a chapter getting more interesting by the day. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (71%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY NETS NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (71%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; FINANCES; PHILANTHROPY BASKETBALL (93%); CITY LIFE (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); CHARITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PHILANTHROPY (76%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (75%); TRENDS (73%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (72%); RELOCATIONS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); 

PERSON: BROUSSARD, CHRIS; KATZ, LEWIS; COSBY, BILL LEWIS KATZ (94%); RAY CHAMBERS (73%); BILL COSBY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



582 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: UNINSURED IN U.S. SPAN MANY GROUPS

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
Who are all these 43.4 million Americans, at the Census Bureau's last count, who do not have health insurance? Who runs the least risk in going without it? (Children.) Who runs the most, medical and financial? (Sick people approaching 65.) Who is most likely to have it? (People over 65.) Not to have it? (Adults who work for low wages.) Who doesn't care? (Invincible youth.)
For more than a decade, an average of a million Americans a year have either lost their health insurance or failed to obtain insurance for which they became eligible. The reasons vary: prohibitively priced premiums, reduced employer coverage, the welfare overhaul. 
 But whatever the causes, the growth in the number of uninsured is a startling anomaly in an economy that has been able to subdue inflation, unemployment and budget deficits. Much to the dismay of advocates for the uninsured, the United States, despite its bounty, stands almost alone among industrial nations in not providing free basic health care for all.
"The number is going in absolutely the wrong direction," said Grace-Marie Arnett, president of the Galen Institute, a conservative health and tax policy organization. "It shows something is wrong with the system."
And with the rise in the cost of insurance and health care outrunning wage gains, said Paul Fronstin, an analyst at the nonpartisan Employee Benefit Research Institute, "this is going to get worse unless something is done about it."
The what to do about it, long primarily the concern of liberals, is now being weighed by politicians across the political spectrum. The still evolving proposals range from expansion of government insurance programs to tax breaks helping more people buy coverage.
But while there is debate on how to help the uninsured, few experts disagree on who they are.
To begin with, not many are among the elderly or the seriously disabled, most of whom are covered by Medicare. Another group, some five million to six million, have family incomes exceeding $75,000 a year and can usually afford the insurance that, for any number of reasons, they do without.
Almost 11 million are children, from families that range from indigent to well off. But children are a less compelling concern to many health system analysts than are large numbers of the other uninsured. First, they are generally healthier than adults and less expensive to treat. And second, alone among the uninsured, they have already been singled out for help, under a $24 billion, five-year program for non-Medicaid-eligible children that was approved by Congress in 1997.
That leaves the rest of the uninsured, those who need coverage most: 25 million to 30 million people who have the greatest chance of becoming ill and cannot pay for care when they do. Demographically, they run the gamut.
"Some work, and some don't," said Katherine Swartz, an associate professor at the Harvard School of Public Health. "Some don't work because they're sick. Some are very young adults not covered by their parents' health insurance. They take jobs serving latte in coffee shops that are not likely to have health insurance. They just don't think about the risks."
The income of many is so low that they cannot afford to buy insurance, Professor Swartz said, but not so low that they qualify for Medicaid. Others may qualify but fail to apply, because of ignorance, language barriers or a general sense of intimidation.
Most of the uninsured in the greatest need of coverage "are working adults who are not quite in the middle class," said David B. Kendall, health policy analyst at the Progressive Policy Institute. "They are the folks who don't have a job that's going to be there for a lifetime."
Minority groups account for a disproportionate number of the uninsured, Mr. Kendall said. Hispanic Americans, nearly half of whom under 65 lack insurance, are only 11 percent of the population but 21 percent of all the uninsured. Experts say there are several reasons, among them that Hispanic immigrants tend to be healthy and in addition may be intimidated by language and cultural barriers from applying for Medicaid or other assistance.
The travails of the uninsured are often dismissed because the law assures them the last-resort, safety-net care of emergency rooms, says Drew E. Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation. But by the time they call the ambulance, Mr. Altman notes, many have gone without the preventive care that might have averted the crisis.
A survey of adults under 65 by Kaiser and the Commonwealth Fund found that in a single year, 24 percent of the uninsured declined to fill a prescription that had been given them by a doctor, compared with 6 percent of those who had insurance. Fifty-one percent had encountered difficulty obtaining care, as against 10 percent of the insured. And 42 percent had not seen a doctor during the prior year, compared with 17 percent of the insured.
As a result, the uninsured are sicker than others, according to research last year by the Center for Studying Health System Change, a group supported by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. The study found that 16.3 percent of uninsured people under 65 were in fair to poor health, compared with 10.6 percent of all people under 65.
One explanation for the rise in the uninsured is the shift of people from welfare to work. More than six million have left the welfare rolls in the last five years, many for low-wage jobs with employers that do not offer any insurance or that charge a lot for it. For these workers, there is help for a while from Medicaid, the Federal-state insurance program for the poor, which is automatically granted welfare recipients. In most states, families can remain on Medicaid for a year after leaving the cash-assistance rolls.
But then, said Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families U.S.A., a consumer advocacy group, "their reward is the loss of health insurance."
Another reason for the swelling in the number of uninsured is the rising cost of health care -- for hospital stays, visits to the doctor and prescription medicine alike. It is climbing faster than workers' wages, and, on top of the general increase in the cost of care, employers are asking workers to pay a larger share of that cost.
In 1985, nearly two-thirds of all businesses with 100 or more employees paid the full cost of a worker's care, a study by the Kaiser Family Foundation found. A decade later only a third did so. Kaiser also says employers who ask workers to pay part of the cost through payroll deductions had raised the workers' share to 22 percent on average by 1996, from 13 percent in 1988.
As a result, a survey by the Federal Agency for Health Care Policy and Research found, one in four workers who were offered employer-subsidized insurance in 1997 declined to sign up. A decade ago, only one in ten declined.
These changes, analysts say, have spawned the largest segment of the uninsured, the working poor.
Young adults -- some poor, some not -- are another large group of the uninsured. Of 65 million up to 34 years old, nearly 25 percent are uninsured (compared with 13 percent of the rest of the population), and they account for nearly 40 percent of all the uninsured.
Of the youngest among them, those 19 to 24, the Center for Studying Health System Change says, 30 percent are not offered insurance through their jobs. Of those who are offered it, typically for a few hundred dollars a year, 30 percent turn it down.
Some who reject it are working poor and cannot afford it. Others, feeling invincible, simply spend the money on something else. But in forgoing regular care, the youngest appear to pay a toll as they age. The center reports that nearly 18 percent of the uninsured from 25 to 34 years old are in fair to poor health, compared with 10 percent of all people their age.
However much some young adults feel they can do without insurance, the nation has an incentive to help them buy it, analysts say. Like safe drivers who never have accidents and yet are required to buy car insurance, these young people, by paying health insurance premiums, would help defray the cost of care for people who are frailer and older. This process of subsidizing one group whose purchases then serve to subsidize others is called cross-subsidizing.
Among the beneficiaries of cross subsidies would be a not so obviously needy group of the uninsured: the poorer and sicker, often retired and homebound, among the 23 million Americans who, age 55 to 64, are not yet eligible for Medicare.
According to the Center for Studying Health System Change, people in that age group have average family incomes of $45,800 a year, about $4,000 more than the average for all families and enough to permit nearly 90 percent of them to pay the age group's high premiums of close to $3,000 a year, even if the employer pays no share.
But the three million among them who are uninsured earn an average of only $18,000. The center reports that a third of them are in particularly perilous straits: these one million are in ill health and have average incomes of just $9,600, which puts private coverage far out of reach.
President Clinton has revived a proposal he made last year that would allow 55-to-64-year-olds the option of joining Medicare by paying $300 to $400 a month. But for these one million people in late middle age, even this plan would leave insurance out of reach. At $400 a month, they would be spending half their income on Medicare.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "SNAPSHOT: The Uninsured"
Percentage of Americans without health insurance in 1997, by . . .
 
SEX
Men -- 18%
Women -- 15
 
AGE
Under 18 -- 15
18 to 24 -- 30
25 to 34 -- 23
35 to 44 -- 17
45 to 64 -- 14
65 and over -- 1
 
RACE AND ETHNICITY
White -- 15
Asian -- 21
Black -- 22
Hispanic -- 34
 
WORK
All full-time workers -- 17
Full-time workers with incomes below the poverty line -- 49
All people who did not work -- 26
*May be of any race.
(Source: Census Bureau)(pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (54%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (54%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CENSUS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); TAX LAW (71%); POLITICS (71%); APPROVALS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T DREW E ALTMAN (66%); DAVID B KENDALL (61%); KATHERINE SWARTZ (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



583 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 3018 words

HEADLINE: Welfare Policies Alter The Face of Food Lines

SERIES: EMPTY SHELVES: First of two articles.

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Twenty months ago, after more than a decade on public assistance, Ann McGinniss transformed herself from a welfare mother into a working mother.
She now follows the rhythms of suburban parenthood, rising before dawn to prepare her daughter and son for school, then driving from her home in Peekskill, N.Y., to her bookkeeping job at a nearby car dealership. 
 Her income -- $290 a week, take home -- means she is doing too well to qualify for food stamps. Yet after rent, car payments, insurance and utilities, she says, she has almost no cash left for food. So almost every weekend, she reverts to a ritual of poverty. She enlists her 12-year-old son to help her lug bags of groceries gleaned from food pantries in the basements of churches in their community 30 miles north of New York City.
She is 40 years old now. Work, she had hoped, would allow her to end a life of dependency. But she has simply come to rely on private largesse instead of public aid. "I'm tired of always having to say, 'Please help me,' " she said.
Ms. McGinniss is part of a stream of low-wage workers, retirees and refugees from public assistance who are swelling the lines at soup kitchens and food pantries across America.
Some, like Ms. McGinniss, are the welfare-to-work versions of an old phenomenon: the working poor caught in the middle -- too well off for public assistance but not well off enough to make it on their own. Some are immigrants, here legally but cut off from food stamps under new Federal welfare laws. Some are following a path of least resistance: rather than jump through hoops meant to tarnish the appeal of public aid, they are turning to private charities that ask few questions and require little in return for the food they give away. And some are lining up for free food simply because it is there.
Together, they are changing the face of food lines long occupied by the addicted, the disabled, the generally down-and-out. And they may help explain a puzzle confronting poverty analysts: Why have the lines kept growing when unemployment is at its lowest level in a generation and the economy has remained healthy for years?
Statistically, the picture remains murky. Neither the charities nor the Federal Government have done detailed year-by-year studies of food charities or their clientele. Even so, several states have measured a steady growth in the doling out of free food.
In New York, the number of grocery handouts and soup kitchen meals rose dramatically between 1987 and 1995, from 13.5 million to slightly more than 21 million. And officials believe the growth has continued.
Across the country in Arizona, the picture looks much the same. After holding fairly steady from 1990 to 1993, the number of meals distributed through the statewide food-charity network has since risen 50 percent. And a 1997 study found that 41 percent of the network's client families had at least one person with a job.
The reasons for this rising demand are not much more precise than its statistical dimensions. But on both sides of the ideological aisle, many agree that tough welfare policies -- and general squeamishness about public assistance these days -- have had some role in lengthening the food lines.
Most of all, attention has focused on food stamps: specifically, on a deep and unexpected drop in the number of people receiving them, from 28 million to fewer than 19 million over the last four years.
Federal food-stamp officials and advocates for the poor say this decline is far too steep to be attributed simply to welfare-to-work success. Many people, they believe, remain eligible for food stamps, but are shying away or being pushed away by overzealous local officials. And there is growing evidence, they say, that significant numbers of them are finding their way to the food lines. Indeed, it was just that concern that late last year led the Department of Agriculture, which runs the food-stamp program, to commission the first Federal study of who receives private food handouts and why. Findings are expected in July 2000.
Nowhere, perhaps, is there a starker sign of such a shift than in New York City, where workers at certain welfare offices, rechristened "job centers," began encouraging applicants last year to go to food pantries instead of seeking food stamps. Last month, a Federal judge ruled that this and other new welfare application procedures had improperly denied people prompt access to food stamps and health coverage.
But a far fuller accounting comes from Wisconsin, which recently released a study of its welfare-to-work program, generally seen as the most rigorous and far reaching in the nation. While the state has had great success in moving people into jobs, the study found that after leaving the rolls, families were 50 percent more likely to say they did not have enough money for food. In all, nearly a third reported such problems.
Some conservative groups that have helped shape new welfare policies say that while tighter rulesmay have lengthened the lines, the shift from public to private aid is overdue. Charity, they say, is the responsibility of communities, not governments.
Other conservatives, though, question whether the lengthening food lines reflect dire need. Indeed, some of them say, if the private charities followed the trend in welfare offices and required work or stricter means tests, the lines would shrink. In essence, they say, the food pantries and soup kitchens are the last bastions of the free lunch.
"You're always going to find recipients diverted to the most lenient welfare system," said Robert Rector, a welfare analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group in Washington. "They are breeding their own clientele."
But many liberal analysts and food-charity workers insist that, in most cases, the need is quite genuine. "Most people who don't have a real need don't go stand in lines at soup kitchens," said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research group in Washington.
Whatever their motivation, rising numbers are repeat customers, not just people seeking a one-time boost to get through a crisis. And the growing presence of working people is leading the charities to adjust their schedules and their style.
A year ago, the pantry at St. Joseph's Church in the Rockland County community of Spring Valley, N.Y., began opening up on Wednesday evenings; 5:30 on a recent Wednesday brought a virtual rush hour, largely made up of working immigrants from Haiti. By 6, more than 100 shopping bags loaded with canned goods, bread and snacks were gone.
And at the Church of St. Paul and St. Andrew's food pantry on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, food is now displayed on shelves like those in a supermarket, rather than simply handed out in bags. The new setup, workers there say, dulls the stigma of accepting a handout.
"We've seen demand triple in the last 10 years," said Doreen Wohl, executive director of the West Side Campaign Against Hunger, which runs the dispensary. "People who are working come more, now that it feels like a store."
 
The Limits of Income
Enough for Rent, But Not for Food
 On a chilly morning in Greenwich, Conn., as Range Rovers and Lincoln town cars rolled along tree-lined Putnam Avenue, an inconspicuous trickle of people made a different commute: down stone steps and through a metal door into the basement of Christ Church, where low-income families in this high-income town receive weekly handouts from a charity called Neighbor to Neighbor.
Even in a well-off town like Greenwich, they were a microcosm of today's food lines.
Margaret Porter, 65, was laid off four years ago from a customer service job at Valley Labs, a subsidiary of Pfizer. Now, her Social Security payments and small pension add up to $1,000 a month, enough for her public housing rent and other expenses, but not for food. Her town social worker calculated she could qualify for food stamps, she said, but only about $10 a month. "It just wasn't worth it," Ms. Porter explained.
Many others had jobs. There was a cook from a local French restaurant, a construction worker, housekeepers from nearby estates who made the minimum wage, $5.15 an hour, and a woman who cared for the children of housekeepers.
For some, the free food was less a way to stave off hunger than to preserve a precarious rendition of suburban stability.
Ronald Culver, 45, a bearded, booted construction worker, stopped by on his lunch break to pick up groceries for himself, his girlfriend, their 20-month-old baby and her three children. Although his girlfriend works at a pharmacy, together they barely make enough to pay their utilities, car costs and $1,500-a-month apartment rent, not a lot in a town where studio apartments go for $1,000 a month.
The demand for free food in Greenwich grew so much last year that when Neighbor to Neighbor's roster of certified clients hit 85, Greenwich opened its own food pantry in an unmarked walk-in closet in Town Hall.
Many of those seeking food have moved from public assistance to low paying jobs, said Elisabeth Steinberg, director of adult and family services for Greenwich. And while Connecticut has a relatively high cost of living, the jobs obtained by people leaving welfare are mostly part time, often lack benefits and average $6.12 an hour, she said.
To accommodate people whose work schedules conflict with the pantry hours, two town social workers have begun making food deliveries on their own time.
One of them, Cynthia Bowser, piled plastic bags of groceries into the back seat of her car on a recent morning, then circled a parking lot in the center of town until she spotted a faded black Oldsmobile parked amid the Explorers and Lexuses. The car belonged to Traci Camacho, 32, a mother of three who makes $8 an hour as a baby sitter at the Greenwich Y.M.C.A. Her husband, Erik, fixes elevators in New York City, but it costs him $280 a month just to commute.
The family missed qualifying for food stamps by a few dollars, Ms. Bowser said. So once a week, Ms. Camacho leaves the right front door of her car unlocked when she goes to work, and Ms. Bowser discreetly leaves the groceries inside.
Perhaps the most comprehensive statistical sign of this shifting clientele came in a survey of tens of thousands of food pantries and soup kitchens released last year by Second Harvest, the nation's largest private network of food charities and the source of much of the food at the Greenwich pantries. The survey found that 60 percent of the 21 million recipients of Second Harvest food in 1997 said they had sought handouts because of a chronic food gap, and nearly 40 percent of the households had at least one person employed.
In contrast, when Second Harvest was created 20 years ago, most of those seeking food were at charity's door for a one-time handout, after their lives had been disrupted by a layoff or some other emergency.
In Homestead, Fla., on the fringe of the Everglades southwest of Miami, crowds gather once or twice a month when a local group, Farm Share, hands out canned goods and unsold produce collected from nearby farms.
On a hot Wednesday morning, drawn by fliers and newspaper ads, dozens, then hundreds, of people gathered at a public park, towing collapsible shopping carts or children's toy wagons, many bringing folding chairs to endure the long wait in 90 degree heat. Some arrived hours before dawn to claim slips of paper with numbers marking their places in line.
Volunteers and a work crew from a nearby prison set out half-ton bins of tomatoes and sweet potatoes, stacks of boxed papayas, and cases of frozen turkey breasts that steamed in the humid air.
Kimberly Johnson, 29, a mother of three and the wife of a cook earning $19,000 a year, said a friend had told her about the handouts last spring. Ms. Johnson, who recently returned to college, said she was reluctant to go, never having relied on charity or public aid. But after exhausting every other option, she said, she began making the 40-minute drive to Homestead.
"I make my own bread, I buy dry beans, I stretch the budget every way I can, but I still have to come," she said. "I'm embarrassed and shocked," she added, scanning the ranks around her. "People I know volunteer here."
 
Food Stamp Drop-Off
Issues of Access And Eligibility
 At 10:30 on a recent weekday morning, a caseworker began her standard speech to several dozen jobless men and women at the Hamilton Job Center, a former welfare office in upper Manhattan.
She gave a grim description of the city's workfare program and the relative benefits of even a minimum-wage job. Anyone looking for immediate help with food, she told them, was basically in the wrong place:
"This is a job center," she said. "If you need food, we have lots of pantries that give good meat, good food."
One who was turned away was 25-year-old Lakisha Reynolds, who had sought food stamps and public assistance for herself and her 3-year-old son in December, seven months after losing a full-time job and then a series of temporary jobs. In an affidavit filed as part of the Federal court suit against the city, she described the contents of her kitchen when she applied for help: "a piece of meat, two cans of vegetables, three tangerines, some hot cereal, a little rice, and some carrots." By the time she arrived at the food pantry that she was sent to, it had run out of food, she said.
The city is now formulating new procedures for the job centers, in an effort to meet the objections the judge made as a result of the suit. In the interim, it has changed the morning routine at the Hamilton center, trading the staff speech for a videotape that makes no mention of emergency food stamps. Jobless people who ask for immediate food aid are directed to the line for welfare benefits, where they must demonstrate their eligibility for food stamps.
New York City's welfare authorities have sought an extraordinarily hard line. But across the nation, there is growing evidence linking the huge drop in the food stamp rolls and the growing lines at the food-charity doors.
Part of that drop can be attributed to the cutoff of food stamps to legal immigrants that went into effect in the summer of 1997. Surging lines at food charities through the following winter eventually prompted Congress to restore food stamps for immigrant children, the disabled and the elderly, but hundreds of thousands of immigrants remain without food stamps altogether.
Many other people, like Ann McGinniss, have lost food stamps because they now make too much money; the limit is $1,138 in monthly net income for a family of three. But often, what with today's anti-welfare climate, the deterrent is simply an unwillingness to deal with the hassle or stigma, or a lack of understanding on eligibility.
In Wisconsin's recent welfare study, for example, a third of former welfare recipients incorrectly believed that having a job automatically disqualified them from food stamps. Altogether, 49 percent stopped receiving food stamps after leaving the welfare rolls, many more than could be accounted for simply by a higher income, according to the study. And in Wisconsin, as in New York City, people without enough food are often told to head to a food pantry or soup kitchen.
In the wake of the study, officials in Wisconsin say they are planning to intensify their efforts to improve food stamp access.
Perhaps the clearest statistical line away from government aid to private charity comes from Arizona, where the drop in food stamp use has almost precisely paralleled the rise in demand on the state's food charities: From March 1994 to July 1998, participation in the food stamp program declined more than 50 percent, according to studies by state and Federal poverty groups. In roughly the same period of time, there was a 50 percent increase in meals distributed through the state's charity network.
 
The Hunt for Meals
Full Refrigerators Turn Empty Again
 The statistics translate into a subculture in which households float between work and welfare, food stamps and food pantries. Sometimes, the hunt for food can seem like a second job.
In Newburgh, N.Y., Yolanda Baptist and her boyfriend, Lawrence McGriff, both 30, have a strict routine to feed themselves and Ms. Baptist's three children. Following a guide distributed by a local ministry, they walk around town for handouts or hot meals, visiting different charities on different days.
Mr. McGriff's last job was at a Burger King, but he stopped working after he broke his ankle. Ms. Baptist has been selling Avon products, but still manages to receive welfare benefits.
On the eighth day of every month, Ms. Baptist picks up and spends her food stamps. Recently, after a $130 shopping trip, she filled the refrigerator, which the day before contained nothing except a few leftovers and a small hunk of ham. Then she began filling a separate freezer the family had found on the street; they use it as a kind of savings account, for food instead of money. By the end of the month, the account would be drawn down nearly to zero again.
In Peekskill, Ann McGinniss's life got more difficult this month when her family lost its Medicaid benefits because of her income, adding medical bills to an already tight budget. To get a little extra food, she continues to tell the volunteers at some food pantries that she has four children, even though her two oldest no longer live at home.
With just $50 or $100 a month in food stamps, she said, "I could make it." Still, if a life of handouts is the price of staying employed, it is worth it; anything, she added, is better than the years she lost on welfare -- a stream of soap operas watched from the couch, punctuated by fights with her longtime boyfriend, who has since fled to Florida without paying child support.
"One way or the other," she said, "I'm not going back."
 NEXT: As demand for donated food rises, supplies are lagging.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A part-time worker in a French restaurant picking up groceries for his family at a pantry at Christ Church in Greenwich, Conn. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Homestead, Fla. -- In a ritual born of poverty, hundreds of people wait in 90-degree heat for free food. Surplus produce is gathered from local fields on the fringe of the Everglades, southwest of Miami, and distributed by a group called Farm Share. Newburgh, N.Y. -- Yolanda Baptist with her children, from left, Latisha, Carlissa and Carl, who are having pancakes in a makeshift dining arrangement before moving to another apartment. Spring Valley, N.Y. -- A stream of low-wage workers, retirees and refugees from public assistance getting food handouts at St. Joseph's Church in Rockland County. (Photographs by SUZANNE DECHILLO/The New York Times)(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); SURVEYS AND SERIES; FOOD STAMPS; SOUP KITCHENS; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); CHARITIES (85%); POOR POPULATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); RELIGION (69%); NEW CAR DEALERS (56%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C ANN MCGINNISS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



584 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: They're the YankeeNets: A Marriage Made for the Tube

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
After a year of slowly intensifying courtship, the Yankees and the Nets announced their plan yesterday to merge into a company called the YankeeNets and promised that each team would continue to operate separately.
"George Steinbrenner has made it clear that he won't run the Nets," said his spokesman, Howard Rubenstein, who spoke for both teams when the owners decided against talking to the news media. "If he's asked his opinion, he'll give it." 
 A definitive agreement has not been signed. The teams signed a letter of intent to create the YankeeNets, in which each team will be equal partners in a company designed to maximize the sale of local cable television rights, sponsorships, luxury suites, tickets and advertising.
To create their 50-50 partnership, the teams will exchange some stock and the Nets owners will contribute at least $350 million from outside investors.
One source of capital is to come from a group led by Allen & Company, an investment firm that is renowned for its entertainment industry deals. A second source of money could be Tishman Speyer Properties, the real estate developer.
Donald R. Keough, the chairman of Allen & Company, and Jerry I. Speyer, the president of Tishman Speyer, were named to the YankeeNets board of directors.
Although there are 14 individual owners or ownership groups that control two or more teams in the four major sports, including Time Warner (the Atlanta Braves, Hawks and the National Hockey League expansion Thrashers), the Walt Disney Company (the Anaheim Angels and Mighty Ducks) and Mike Ilitch (the Detroit Tigers and Red Wings) this is the first instance of two teams merging into one company.
In any case, the expansion of multiple-team ownership has occurred less for sporting reasons than for television and marketing advantages. Ultimately, it may not matter that the Nets have not won a championship since 1976, when they were in the American Basketball Association, and have started the lockout-shortened season with a spate of injuries and a 2-9 record.
"The record is temporary," Rubenstein said. "They have very good ballplayers. With the drive these owners have, the Nets will be competitive."
The news that the champion Yankees would combine with the Nets, a team with a far less hallowed history, stunned Roy C. Boe, who bought the Nets for about $100,000 in 1969 and owned them until 1978.
"Wow!" Boe said from his home in Connecticut. "Holy smokes! This is mind-boggling. I'm shocked they kept it a secret. It's hard to imagine the Yankees would merge with the Nets, but there must be things we aren't aware of yet."
He speculated that Steinbrenner sees the wisdom in linking up with a National Basketball Association team, even after the lockout and despite the Nets' not having the marquee value of the Knicks, Los Angeles Lakers or Boston Celtics.
"The N.B.A. has made such incredible strides here and around the world," said Boe, who sold Julius Erving in 1976 before the Nets joined the N.B.A.
The main benefits of the merger for the Yankees seem to be the cash infusion from the new investors and the leverage a second team could create in talks to renew the teams' cable television deals with Cablevision's local sports channels: the MSG Network, which carries Yankees games, and Fox Sports New York, the Nets' channel.
The YankeeNets could also form their own sports channel or make a deal with ESPN or Time Warner to create a channel to compete with Cablevision.
But what the creation of the YankeeNets makes apparent -- at least for now -- is the death of talks with Cablevision to buy the Yankees, talks which had broken down last November.
Yesterday, James Dolan, Cablevision's president, said in a statement: "Cablevision has enjoyed a longstanding, productive relationship with both organizations and we look forward to continuing those relationships."
Those relationships could end soon. The Yankees' MSG deal ends after next season and the Nets' contract concludes after the 2001-02 season. If the Yankees leave, MSG could be badly hurt, without crucial, highly rated spring and summer programming.
"Had Cablevision bought the Yankees, they could have linked them up with the Knicks and Rangers, which would have been a better package than the Yankees-Nets," said Jeff Phillips, a vice president at Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, a Chicago investment bank that specializes in sports finance. Cablevision's ownership of Madison Square Garden includes the Knicks, the Rangers and the arena.
The talks between the Yankees and Nets began about a year ago when Steinbrenner, during meetings with Jerry L. Cohen, a member of the old and new Nets ownership groups, spoke about "the potentials of the two clubs," Rubenstein said. Some of those talks were television-related, as Steinbrenner sought a way to build leverage with Cablevision, said one executive with knowledge of the early discussions.
Rubenstein said Steinbrenner "was not negotiating in two places at once" and described the early Nets talks as "casual and friendly." With the apparent demise of the Yankees' talks with Cablevision, serious negotiations began between Steinbrenner and the Nets' new owners, including Raymond Chambers and Lewis Katz, who took over the team in late October for $150 million.
Chambers's and Katz's 38 percent ownership share of the Nets belongs to a charitable trust that has said it will funnel all its profits toward inner-city youth programs in New Jersey. The trust, the Community Youth Organization, will remain in place and will own 20 percent of the YankeeNets. Bill Cosby, the entertainer, is a team investor and chairman of the trust.
In a statement, Steinbrenner said, "Over and above the obvious business reasons for the partnering of the two teams, I was moved by the Nets' commitment to youth." Although it was not announced, the Nets' charitable efforts are expected to be extended to areas of New York City.
Rubenstein was unable to say precisely what impact, if any, the merger of the teams will have on the Yankees' pursuit of a new home in Manhattan or New Jersey, or whether they will stay in the Bronx at a new or renovated stadium.
"Steinbrenner is retaining all options, including New Jersey," Rubenstein said, adding that Steinbrenner is intrigued about whether the South Bronx area surrounding Yankee Stadium could become an empowerment zone, which would make it eligible for Federal assistance. "If a lot can be done to rehabilitate the neighborhood, not just put in a new stadium, he'd be very interested."
The Nets, meanwhile, have proposed moving to a new arena in downtown Newark from Continental Airlines Arena in the Meadowlands Sports Complex.
"We don't think this will affect the Nets-Newark proposal or our plans to redevelop the Continental Arena," said John Samerjan, a spokesman for the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, the arena's owner. "And we haven't taken action on the baseball front in a long time."
Rubenstein offered a "no comment" when asked whether the YankeeNets might sell stock in an initial public offering. Shares in the Boston Celtics, Cleveland Indians and Florida Panthers are now publicly traded.
With teams from two sports combined into one entity, Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College, cautioned, "It's possible that Steinbrenner could shift revenues around to avoid additional revenue sharing in baseball or even shift around some N.B.A. revenues." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); GEORGIA, USA (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW JERSEY NETS; YANKEENETS ALLEN & CO INC (91%); WALT DISNEY CO (82%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW JERSEY NETS; YANKEENETS NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); GEORGIA, USA (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (90%); BASEBALL (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); ATHLETES (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%); BOARD CHANGES (66%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; STEINBRENNER, GEORGE M 3D; RUBENSTEIN, HOWARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



585 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: President, in West, Is Mixing Politics, Rest and Fund-Raising

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Feb. 25

 BODY:
President Clinton may not have been gloating today, but he sure was celebrating.
Indulging a sometime adversary and delighting in his own economic record, Mr. Clinton basked in bright sun and warm ovations here as he shopped, talked baseball and promoted his proposals to preserve Social Security and Medicare. 
 Among the speakers welcoming him to the convention center was Representative Jim Kolbe, an Arizona Republican who voted to impeach him. Mr. Kolbe praised the President's leadership on Social Security and noted twice to the boisterous crowd of 2,000 that he had flown in with Mr. Clinton on Air Force One. He sat down beside the President, leaning toward him and whispering.
In his own remarks, Mr. Clinton thanked Mr. Kolbe -- perhaps generously, perhaps pointedly -- for "crossing district and party lines to be here with us today."
Asked later if he still believed Mr. Clinton was unfit for office, Mr. Kolbe paused and then said: "The impeachment's over. Let's talk about Social Security here."
Mr. Kolbe has also proposed detailed repairs to the Social Security system, and aides to Mr. Clinton insisted that he was fond of the Congressman and harbored no grudge.
Mr. Clinton was so sunny in his own remarks that he converted even his bad news to good. The fact that Social Security and Medicare were in trouble, he said, was "a high-class problem" -- evidence that medical care and prosperity were letting people live longer.
"This is nothing to wring your hands about," he said. But, he added, "we have a responsibility to the future."
Mr. Clinton was in such a generous mood that he skipped right over a dig at Republicans' tax cut plans prepared by his speechwriters and released to the press before he spoke.
While Mr. Clinton and Mr. Kolbe may be trying to put impeachment behind them -- at least in public -- the same could not be said of the few dozen protesters outside clamoring for the President's resignation or of the Democrats inside, many of whom booed Mr. Kolbe.
After leaving the convention center, Mr. Clinton stopped at a store to inspect some silver and turquoise jewelry and then visited the Arizona Diamondbacks baseball team, which is in spring training. He wandered onto the field to chat with players and to collect a jersey bearing the number one and the name Clinton.
He is on a six-day trip that will include three days of vacation with his family in Utah. Among the stops is San Francisco, with plans to raise about $1 million for Democrats.
Before Mr. Clinton arrived, several elderly people in the crowd said they were confident that the politicians would find a way to protect Social Security and Medicare. But then they seemed to have few complaints about anything.
"This is what they call the good life, baby," Herb Bloom said with a slow grin.
Mr. Bloom, 84, said he trusted Mr. Clinton to preserve the retirement security system.
"The Republicans are sort of hanging back on it, as usual," he said.
But Mr. Clinton also hung back today. While he advocated strengthening the retirement system by paying off the national debt -- even envisioning a "debt-free" nation in 2018 -- he avoided any talk of cutting benefits or raising taxes. He spoke vaguely of "somewhat controversial" decisions that policymakers would have to make, and he urged his listeners to support their Congressman as he makes them.
The Democrats' affection for Mr. Clinton seemed undimmed by the sexual assault accusation against him that was reported the night before on NBC television. In an interview with NBC News, Juanita Broaddrick, an Arkansas woman, accused Mr. Clinton of assaulting her more than 20 years ago. Through a lawyer, Mr. Clinton has denied the charge.
People came to see the President generally dismissed the accusation as unbelievable or ancient history.
Carolyn Killian, a 31-year-old homemaker, noted that Ms. Broaddrick had once signed an affidavit saying she had had no sexual relationship with Mr. Clinton. "She must be a liar, too," Ms. Killian said.
Debbie Van Sant, a 42-year-old pharmacist, said that she had voted for Ross Perot, but that she had come to support Mr. Clinton over the last year.
"After all of this fiasco," she said, "I have a lot of respect for the man for standing up for what he believes in. It shows character in a person." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 981 (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON (ARIZ); UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS IMPEACHMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BASEBALL (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ETHICS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); AGING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (64%); FUNDRAISING (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENNET, JAMES; KOLBE, JIM (REPR); LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



586 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 41; Column 4; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: ART IN REVIEW;
Donna Moylan

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:

Nicole Klagsbrun Gallery
526 West 26th Street
Chelsea
Through March 27
 
Esso Gallery
191 Chrystie Street, near Rivington Street
Lower East Side
Through April 17
The painter Donna Moylan has a lot on her mind, maybe too much. Her exhibitions at Klagsbrun and Esso, which together form her third solo show in New York, teem with pictorial ideas, multicultural awareness and representational modes: aboriginal dream-time patterns as well as charts, maps, graphs and even physics equations. The works range from semi-abstract paintings involving layered images and patterns, to abstract works painted on African fabric, to more traditional landscape studies and figure sketches. 
 Not all of this is equally successful, and as the preceding list might suggest, it can sometimes veer too close to artists like Sigmar Polke, David Salle and William Wegman, while also bringing to mind the rotating styles of Dona Nelson. Like Ms. Nelson, Ms. Moylan does not want to settle into a rut or simply turn out a well-made product, an admirable attitude. But so far, she lacks Ms. Nelson's emotional focus and technical inventiveness, with the result that her work can seem scattered and cerebral.
Still, many of the paintings at Klagsbrun hold the eye on the strength of radiant color, thinly applied paint, contrasting techniques, unlikely combinations of images and references, and, perhaps most important, exhilarating manipulations of space. Examples include "Ben's House," with its velvety blacks and hallucinatory stars, and a vast untitled landscape whose brilliant sky contains Abstract Expressionist swirls and non-Western religious symbols.
There are moments of nails-on-blackboard discordance, as in the grisaille landscape and blocky checkerboard of "Brush Strokes." And sometimes the added images merely detract from striking backgrounds, like the meandering concentric lines of "To Read" or the high-keyed strata of "Frame Dragging," which one seems to observe from the distance of a helicopter.
The show at Esso seems to contain more outtakes than finished works, but it creates a vivid impression of Ms. Moylan's restlessness and range of interests. Deftly drawn images of people from different cultures and economic backgrounds are frequent, often on canvases papered with pages full of physics equations or typewritten drafts of a lecture about art.
But the best works at Esso are a group of small solidly painted landscapes. While not as original as the big paintings at Klagsbrun, they hold their own and expose the solid foundation of Ms. Moylan's provocative accumulation of hits and misses. ROBERTA SMITH
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: MOYLAN, DONNA; SMITH, ROBERTA WILLIAM GEORGE WEGMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



587 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: IN BIGGEST DRIVE SINCE 1937, UNION GAINS A VICTORY

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 25

 BODY:
Winning the biggest unionization drive in more than half a century, the Service Employees International Union gained the right today to represent 74,000 Los Angeles County home-care workers who feed, bathe and clean for the elderly and disabled.
The organizing drive -- more than twice as large as any other in decades -- shows the labor movement's new aggressiveness and its new focus on recruiting low-wage workers, women and minorities. 
 Los Angeles County's home-care workers earn $5.75 an hour, the state minimum wage, and many said they voted for the union because they wanted better wages and benefits long denied them: health insurance and paid vacations.
"It's something big for us," said Maria Alvarez, who complained that after 14 years on the job she still earned $5.75. "I'm so happy about the union I feel like flying. They'll help us win benefits, like health insurance and vacations. Right now, we don't have nothing."
State officials who counted the ballots, which were mailed in over the past month, said tonight that 16,250 workers voted for the union and 1,925 against.
As a result, the Service Employees Union will represent the county's 74,000 home-care providers, making it labor's biggest organizing victory, Federal officials and A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials say, since 1937 when 112,000 General Motors workers joined the United Auto Workers, after a historic sit-down strike the previous year.
"This is a home run for labor amidst a lot of strike outs, in that it is a huge victory in a pivotal sector of the economy, the service sector" said Harley Shaiken, a labor specialist at the University of California at Berkeley. "And it represents the new face of labor -- women workers, minority workers, low-paid workers, people who have often been so hard to organize."
Union officials said they would begin bargaining over the next few weeks with the county authority that supervises home care.
Los Angeles officials said today that unionization, by improving wages and benefits, would create a more stable, better trained workforce allowing the elderly and disabled to receive improved home-care. Zev Yaroslavsky, a member of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, even predicted that the better trained supply of home-care workers brought about through unionization might discourage many elderly people from moving into nursing homes, persuading them instead to remain at home and receive home-care assistance.
The organizing drive highlights the shift in the economy and in labor's focus away from manufacturing and toward the service sector, especially toward health care, in which 1 million of 12 million workers are unionized nationwide.
In wooing the home-care workers, the Service Employees Union, the nation's fastest-growing union, underlined labor's effort to organize low-wage workers, who are seen as fertile ground for labor's message. With this strategy, the labor movement hopes to transform itself into a high-minded movement, like the civil rights movement, that focuses in large part on those on the bottom rungs -- a sharp difference from decades past when labor was viewed as preoccupied with representing high-paid auto and steel workers.
"This campaign represents a new direction for the labor movement," said David Rolf, 29, who worked more than 14 hours a day for a year spearheading the drive. "It is a campaign where we reached out to low-income, women workers, workers of color and immigrant workers. If you look at the demographic changes in Southern California, the labor movement has to figure out how to bring these workers in because they are the backbone of the new, low-wage service-sector economy."
Union officials said they would follow up today's victory by trying to unionize 80,000 home-care workers in other California counties, 5,000 in New York State and 17,000 in Oregon and Washington State. This unionization drive had a mix of old and new -- 40 young organizers went to apartment houses, churches and bus stops to urge home-care aides to support the union. They visited 33,000 workers at home. And much of the pro-union message was passed from one worker to another -- they often talked in the lobbies of apartment complexes for the elderly.
The unionization campaign was unusual not only in its size, but also in its length -- it took more than 11 years and required the Service Employees Union to persuade the California Legislature to enact a law letting these workers unionize.
Soon after the organizing drive began in 1987, state courts ruled that the home-care aides were independent contractors without the right to unionize. Although their salaries were paid by a combination of Federal, state and county funds, the courts ruled that neither the state nor the county was the employer for these workers. Instead, the courts said the individual clients were the employers, making the workers and union recognize that if they were to negotiate better wages and benefits, they would need to bargain with large entities.
"A decade ago people thought we were crazy to try to organize California's 180,000 home-care workers once the courts said they were independent contractors," said Andrew Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union. "We said, 'if we can't organize the fastest growing occupation in America, then what does that say about the labor movement?' "
The Service Employees persuaded the state legislature to pass a law in 1992 that authorized counties to create authorities that would administer the home-care programs and serve as the workers' employers. In 1997, Los Angeles County set up such an authority, a consumer-dominated body called the Personal Assistance Services Council.
In California, county officials interview the elderly and disabled to determine whether they qualify for government-paid home care. Government officials prefer giving the elderly home-care aides to sending them to nursing homes because nursing homes are far costlier.
The unionization vote covers the workers who participate in a program for low-income elderly and disabled -- a single Los Angeles resident with up to $640 in monthly income qualified for fully subsidized care. Those with higher incomes can qualify for subsidized home-care, but must share the cost. The more than 10,000 home-care providers in Los Angeles County who work for private agencies are not covered by this unionization vote.
Labor leaders assert that unionizing these home-care aides will help worker and client alike. Many elderly and disabled clients grow alarmed when their aides quit for higher-paying jobs, and raising their wages is expected to reduce the 40 percent annual turnover among these workers. In addition, the union and county authority are expected to provide some training for the workers. Several workers interviewed said they have received no training.
Ms. Alvarez, the home-care worker, said she was pleased that the union would help train her to handle clients who are extremely heavy and who have Alzheimer's disease.
One of her clients, Mercedes Dacosta, 85, a widow with serious knee problems, said it would be a disaster if Ms. Alvarez, whose weekly take-home pay is $200, left her for a higher paying job.
"The other day she was complaining that she couldn't afford to buy a new set of eyeglasses," Mrs. DaCosta said.
This is the largest domino to fall for the Service Employees, after they pushed other California counties to set up such home-care authorities. This enabled the union to organize 6,100 home-care workers in Alameda County in 1994, 5,500 in San Francisco County in 1996, and 4000 in Contra Costa County in 1997.
After San Francisco's home-care workers joined the union they got a contract that raised their hourly wage to $7 from $5.75 and provided health insurance. In Santa Clara County, workers are paid $6.25, in Alameda County they are paid $6.
Home-care aides at private agencies are not unionized and earn from $5.75 an hour to $12.50, if they are certified as nurses aides.
Officials of the Service Employees Union said they would seek a contract that would require workers who choose to join the union to pay $12 in dues each month, while those who opt not to join would pay a similar fee. Mr. Stern, the union president, said he expected 45,000 to 50,000 to join.
The union also hopes to persuade the Legislature and Gov. Gray Davis to budget $60 million more for home care so that county authorities could raise the wages of these workers by $1 an hour.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Votes being counted in a drive that allowed the Service Employees International Union the right to represent home-care workers. Maria Alvarez, a home-care worker, helped Mercedes Dacosta at a retirement home. The vote for a union pleased Ms. Alvarez, who makes $5.75 an hour and said, "I'm so happy about the union I feel like flying." (Photographs by Ted Soqui for The New York Times)(pg. A18)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (93%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); AFL-CIO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (93%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); AFL-CIO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOME HEALTH CARE; LABOR; UNIONIZATION; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR UNIONS; WOMEN; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); FRINGE BENEFITS LABOR UNIONS (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); AGING (89%); WOMEN (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (78%); HOME HEALTH CARE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BASEBALL (69%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



588 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: GUATEMALAN ARMY WAGED 'GENOCIDE,' NEW REPORT FINDS

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: GUATEMALA, Feb. 25

 BODY:
A truth commission report made public today concluded that the United States gave money and training to a Guatemalan military that committed "acts of genocide" against the Mayans during the most brutal armed conflict in Central America, Guatemala's 36-year civil war.
The report, by the independent Historical Clarification Commission, contradicts years of official denials of the torture, kidnapping and execution of thousands of civilians in a war that the commission estimated killed more than 200,000 people. 
 Although the outlines of American support for Guatemala's military have been well known, the nine-volume report confirms that the Central Intelligence Agency aided Guatemalan forces. Excerpts, page A10.
The commission listed the American training of the officer corps in counterinsurgency techniques as a key factor that "had a significant bearing on human rights violations during the armed confrontation."
Christian Tomuschat, the German jurist who headed the panel, said, "The United States Government, through its constituent structures, including the Central Intelligence Agency, lent direct and indirect support to illegal state operations."
That support helped Guatemalan military and paramilitary units engage in kidnapping, torture and executions, a staff member of the commission said. The aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the panel also found evidence that the United States had knowledge of genocide and still supported the Guatemalan military.
The commission, set up as a part of a United Nations-supervised peace accord that ended the war in 1996, concluded that either the Government or allied paramilitary groups were to blame for more than 90 percent of the 42,000 humans rights violations, 29,000 of which resulted in deaths or disappearances. That attributes a somewhat higher percentage of deaths to the Government and its allies than did a report last year by the Roman Catholic Church.
The commission, which conducted an 18-month investigation, specifically named military intelligence as the organizer of illegal detentions, torture, disappearances and executions, but it stopped short of identifying individuals responsible.
As the conclusions were read at a solemn ceremony at the National Theater, rights workers, relatives of victims and others among the 2,000 people broke into standing ovations, sobs, shouts and chants of "Justice! Justice!"
The outbursts repeatedly interrupted the presentation as President Alvaro Arzu Irigoyen and Cabinet members sat silently in the first row.
While the scope of the bloodshed had been generally known, the report today is the first by an internationally supported panel to blame the Government and its military allies. In unexpectedly strong language, it describes the policy of the Government and military at the height of the war as genocide.
The report's estimate of more than 200,000 deaths is slightly higher than previous figures, and the number of documented massacres substantially exceeds previous figures.
The war, which began in 1960, pitted a rightist military-controlled Government against a classic Latin American left-wing insurgency. In waging a war largely in the hinterlands where Mayans lived, the military assumed that the Mayans sympathized with the insurgents and provided them with supplies, information and shelter.
As a consequence, entire Mayan villages were attacked and burned and their inhabitants were slaughtered in an effort to deny the guerrillas protection. The report said the Mayans paid the highest price when the military identified them as natural allies of the guerrillas.
The result, the report said today, was an "aggressive, racist and extremely cruel nature of violations that resulted in the massive extermination of defenseless Mayan communities."
Mr. Tomuschat, the chairman, said, "The results of our investigation demonstrate that, in general, the excuse that midlevel commanders acted with a wide margin of autonomy -- an excuse used in an attempt to justify what happened as 'excesses' and 'error' not ordered by superiors -- is unsubstantiated and totally lacking any basis."
The commission recommended a national reparations program and exhumations of "hundreds" of bodies from clandestine cemeteries, and called on President Arzu and the former guerrilla commanders to assume responsibility and ask all Guatemalans for forgiveness.
The three-member commission and an international staff of 272 made extensive use of declassified documents from the United States, and the documents showed that American agencies fortified the Guatemalan armed forces with training in their anti-Communist campaign, the panel said.
Mr. Tomuschat said the investigation also found that until the mid-1980's, American companies and Government officials "exercised pressure to maintain the country's archaic and unjust socio-economic structure," and that the C.I.A. supported illegal counterinsurgency operations.
Besides Mr. Tomuschat, the commission members were Edgar Balsells, a lawyer, and Otilia Lux Coti, a leading Mayan educator, both of Guatemala.
The commission did not give specific names of human rights violators, the result of military opposition during the peace talks to pointing fingers at individuals. But some victims' families said no true reconciliation could be achieved without judicial accountability.
"There has to be an end to impunity," said Helen Mack, whose sister, Myrna, was killed in 1990, it is believed, for her research on the refugees driven from their homes by the army. The case resulted in the only conviction yet of an army official for rights violations, and Ms. Mack is pursuing the trial of three other officers for her sister's murder.
Today, the weight of nine years of struggle with Guatemala's ineffective judicial system seemed to fall on her as she broke into tears as the commission's conclusions were read.
"We the victims feel vindicated,' she said later. "No one can now tell us we're following lies or ghosts anymore."
Guatemalan officials said today that they would have a response after they study the report. The army leadership has remained defiant, accusing international and national "actors" for their roles in the violence and insisting that the military acted under a constitutional mandate to defend the state from Communism.
Asked about the accusations against the C.I.A. by the commission, the spokesman for the intelligence agency, Bill Harlow, said: "Since we have not seen the report, it would be inappropriate for us to comment."
Donald Planty, the United States Ambassador, said, "I believe that the report's focus is appropriate, that these were abuses committed by Guatemalans against other Guatemalans, the result of an internal conflict." The report did not ask the United States for reparations.
Defense Minister Hector M. Barrios, who has promised his own report on the war dead and injured, said today, "I see as positive any effort that is made on behalf of peaceful coexistence in Guatemala."
President Arzu left without comment after shaking hands with members of the commission and those formally receiving the report: Alvaro de Soto, a senior United Nations official, and representatives of the Guatemalan Government and the former guerrilla group, Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity.
Aides said protocol prevented the President from personally accepting the report, but that decision was seen by many here as intentionally distancing the Government from the commission's findings. At several points today, people in the theater shouted for the President to get up on stage and receive the report.
At the ceremony, the nine volumes were provided only to the representative of the government, the rebels and and the United Nations. The commission issued only an 86-page summary to the public.
Foreign Minister Eduardo Stein said the Government was already carrying out some recommendations, including compensation for victims, judicial reform and changes in the military. Political repression has been greatly reduced, by most accounts, and the guerrillas have regrouped as a political party. There has also been a rise of groups promoting the rights of indigenous people.
The changing times were underscored today when scores of Guatemalans openly confronted Government officials in angry outbursts.
But the country is still wrestling with its transition to a full democratic state. Stark poverty and economic inequalities remain. Despite a requirement under the peace accord that the army's size and role be reduced, monitors say the army still has a hold on internal affairs.
Just how fragile the peace is was shown last year when a Catholic defender of human rights, Bishop Juan Jose Gerardi, was beaten to death with a concrete block just days after announcing the results of a three-year investigation of abuses during the war. That report identified specific military officers and guerrilla groups, and church and rights groups say they believe that the killing was meant to pressure them into remaining silent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a grim step to exorcise the ghosts of Guatemala's civil war, the Quita family, in Xecoxol, north of Guatemala City, yesterday reclaimed bodies of relatives who had been massacred in 1982 and dumped in a church latrine. (Scott Dalton/Associated Press)(pg. A10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GUATEMALA (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA; UNITED STATES (97%); GUATEMALA (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; MAYANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; KIDNAPPING; TORTURE; GUATEMALA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INDIANS, AMERICAN GENOCIDE (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); TORTURE (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (73%); RELIGION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA CHRISTIAN TOMUSCHAT (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999



589 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 4; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Downside of Doing Good: Disaster Relief Can Harm

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Recent images of war, famine and genocidal slaughter have forced relief agencies, United Nations institutions, and others not only to offer help but also to question as never before whether the aid often ends up doing more harm than good.
"The past decade's tragedies have shaken humanitarians to the core," Thomas G. Weiss, presidential professor of political science at CUNY, writes in a forthcoming issue of the Carnegie Council's journal, Ethics and International Affairs. "The mere mention of Bosnia, Somalia, Rwanda, Liberia, Afghanistan or Sierra Leone profoundly disturbs their composure. Traumas in these countries have become synonymous with the dilemmas of humanitarian action." 
 Mr. Weiss and others acknowledge the "bright side" of such aid efforts: they can relieve suffering, build bridges between warring parties, promote economic development and enhance the protection of human rights. But Mr. Weiss also warns of the "dark side of aid," which includes sustaining a war economy, legitimizing outlaw authorities, creating refugee movements and encouraging parties to play one agency against another.
The Bosnian war is an example of the two sides of assistance. From 1992 to 1995, relief workers and peacekeeping forces ferried supplies to the scarred villages of Bosnia and Herzegovina and set up camps to care for refugees. Yet some critics charge that they were also aiding and abetting so-called ethnic cleansing, or the elimination of specific ethnic groups, the very war crimes that tribunals are now trying to adjudicate.
"In organizing shelter for refugees and making their exile less painful, the humanitarian agencies were both playing into the hands of the 'cleansers' and carrying out their humanitarian mission," Rony Brauman, a former president of Doctors Without Borders, an international medical charity, writes in "Hard Choices: Moral Dilemmas in Humanitarian Intervention"(Rowman & Littlefield, 1998), a new book examining the moral dilemmas facing aid agencies.
Kofi Annan, the United Nations Secretary General, concedes that Western aid agencies assisted the "ethnic cleansing" in Bosnia and Herzegovina by helping targeted villagers escape before they were attacked, thereby easing the task of removing them from their homes. Still, he says that "saving the lives of people in jeopardy had to take precedence."
Last month in Geneva he again warned of the downside of relief efforts, saying it could encourage the West not to press for reform: "Humanitarian assistance has been used as a fig leaf, hiding a lack of political will to address the root causes of conflicts." Nonetheless he insists that the scale of the suffering created "pressure for action that governments cannot ignore."
In some ways, the cruel experience of recent decades has been a loss of innocence. Mary B. Anderson, an American economist who runs the Collaborative for Development Action, a Cambridge-based development organization, writes in "Hard Choices" that the West can "exacerbate the conflicts that cause the suffering it is meant to alleviate." But she insists that even if aid can do harm, that does not mean that "no aid would do no harm." Aid strategies that strengthen victims' capacity to help themselves may be the best approach, she says, adding that "Do no harm" should be the new "Hippocratic Oath of Aid."
Mr. Weiss says that private aid organizations are becoming more careful about intervention. "The watchword now is: 'Don't just do something. Stand there and think,' " he says. "Tough love" is the phrase many workers use to describe this new, more cautious approach to relieving suffering.
The American-led effort to alleviate the famine in Somalia in 1993 has probably come in for the most scathing criticism. In his book "The Road to Hell: The Ravaging Effects of Foreign Aid and International Charity," Michael Maren wrote that aid was not only "incompetent and inadvertently destructive" but also "could be positively evil."
Mr. Maren, a former American aid worker, chronicles the waste and corruption of the Somali operation, saying that it wiped out indigenous agriculture and created a new economic system with its own winners and losers that resists change.
Alexander de Waal, the former co-director of London-based Africa Rights, concurs. Western charitable organizations rush in food partly to help and partly to be filmed for television so that they can attract contributions and stay in business, he contends. The result, says Mr. de Waal, is "a disempowerment of the people directly engaged in the crisis which drains their capacity to find a solution." Indeed, a recent study by the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London concluded that the new patterns of economic interest created by civil upheavals help sustain the turmoil.
In his book, "Famine Crimes: Politics and the Disaster Relief Industry" (Indiana, 1998), Mr. de Waal contends that Africa, unlike India, suffers famines because it is not a democracy. He asserts, as does the Nobel Prize-winning economist Amartya Sen, that famines occur when authoritarian states mismanage the economy and the people have no redress.
Not all relief failures are built into the system; some result from obvious mistakes, some aid veterans contend. For instance, Mohammed Sahnoun, the mediator in Somalia, writes in "Hard Choices" that the United Nations sent too many soldiers without doing enough to rebuild Somali society. Meanwhile, the United Nations commander in Rwanda, Gen. Romeo A. Dallaire, complains he did not have enough soldiers to halt the genocide there.
Philip Gourevitch, in his book on the Rwanda disaster, "We Wish to Inform You that Tomorrow We Will Be Killed With Our Families," recounts that in January 1994, Mr. Annan, then head of the organization's peacekeeping, played down a warning from General Dallaire that Hutu extremists planned a Tutsi massacre and denied him permission to seize hidden arms to be used for the killing.
Explaining the United Nations action in that case, Iqbal Riza, the official in charge of Rwanda, has expressed regret that the massacre warning was not taken more seriously but argued that the Security Council had given the organization no mandate to seize arms. Only months after American and Pakistani peacekeepers had been killed in Somalia, he noted, the United Nations did not want to risk further losses.
He pointed out that when the killing started, the Security Council's reaction was not to strengthen the peacekeeping force and order it to stop the massacres but to pull soldiers out, reducing the mission to "less than 10 percent of its size."
As people debate the pros and cons of specific aid efforts, others are scrutinizing the traditional principles that have guided such assistance throughout the century: neutrality, impartiality and consent of the belligerents.
The International Committee of the Red Cross continues to defend these principles, even though it meant withholding evidence of the Holocaust during World War II and refusing to give the War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague information about Yugoslav atrocities.
Cornelio Sommaruga, the Red Cross's president, warns against "subordinating humanitarian action to political considerations"; it can lead to deals being struck "at the expense of humanitarian concerns." For the Red Cross, neutrality is essential to maintaining its ability to protect prisoners of war and civilians trapped in war zones.
But Michael Ignatieff, author of "The Warrior's Honor: Ethnic War and the Modern Conscience," (Owl Book, 1998) argues that in "the chaotic conditions of the post-cold-war world," combatants no longer respect any rules. Today international emergencies often require military intervention as well as relief aid. The skills of political mediators, human rights inspectors and election monitoring teams may also be needed. And a coordinated approach to crisis resolution is something that relief organizations dream of.
"The sanctity of human life is the first principle for all humanitarians and overrides other considerations," Mr. Weiss writes. "Neutrality, impartiality and consent are second-order principles that may or may not be accurate tactical guides."
Political philosophers like Francis Deng of the Brookings Institution in Washington argue that states with failing governments give up their sovereignty and place an obligation on others to intervene to save their people. At the urging of France, the United Nations General Assembly has established a rather weak right of "humanitarian intervention."
But the difficulties of such a political approach to relief are illustrated by the experience of Doctors Without Borders, which in 1994 pulled out of refugee camps in eastern Zaire, now the Congo, to punish the Rwandan Hutu inmates for turning them into military bases.
Within days, other medical charities had taken its place.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boys, above (Ilkka Uinonen/Sygma), unload Red Cross relief in Kabul, Afghanistan, and ethnic Albanians, inset (Associated Press), from Kosovo wave identification cards to receive bedding. (pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); RWANDA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); RWANDA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WAR AND REVOLUTION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FOREIGN AID; PHILANTHROPY INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REFUGEES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); FAMINE (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); POLITICS (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (74%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); ETHICS (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (70%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ETHNICITY (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; WEISS, THOMAS G (PROF); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); ANDERSON, MARY B THOMAS G WEISS (75%); MICHAEL MAREN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



590 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Gives Colombia And Mexico Nod on Drugs

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
President Clinton today certified Mexico and Colombia as fully cooperative allies in fighting illegal drugs, even though most hard drugs flooding the United States come from those countries.
The President's declaration illustrates the extent to which Washington's paramount interests, from regional stability to trade, influence its annual assessment of the drug threat posed by foreign countries. 
 On Capitol Hill, two Senators who led a failed attempt last year to overturn Mexico's certification dropped their opposition, and the House Speaker, Dennis Hastert, signaled that he was not seeking a fight with the Administration over the issue.
The Senators, Paul Coverdell, a Georgia Republican, and Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat, were muted compared with their demeanor last year.
They joined six Republicans in sending a letter today to Mr. Clinton urging the White House to incorporate new standards for evaluating Mexico's cooperation, including prosecution of the leaders of smuggling operations and extradition of traffickers wanted in the United States.
"The Government of Mexico has taken steps to improve its law enforcement cooperation," the letter said. "But far more, we believe, needs to be done."
Senate aides said there was little chance that opponents of certification could muster a majority to reverse Mr. Clinton's decision, much less a two-thirds vote to override a Presidential veto of any reversal.
Senators Feinstein and Coverdell had other reasons for avoiding a fight over drug policy. Ms. Feinstein, her aides say, does not believe that a divisive floor battle would be fruitful. Mr. Coverdell is the chairman of a United States-Mexico legislative conference in Atlanta this spring and does not want to anger the Mexicans taking part.
The Administration's decision is likely to run into sharper opposition in the House, where a Florida Republican, Representative John L. Mica, is to hold hearings next week. "I'm hearing more and more members of Congress express dismay about Mexico's performance," said Mr. Mica, who predicted that the Administration was "in for a very rough time on Capitol Hill."
The Administration refused certification to only two countries, Afghanistan and Myanmar, formerly Burma, which together supply 90 percent of the world's opium.
In theory, decertification disqualifies a country from receiving American economic aid or multilateral development loans. But Washington already has frosty relations with Afghanistan and Myanmar and provides no direct aid.
Four other countries -- Cambodia, Haiti, Nigeria and Paraguay -- were judged not to have done enough to stanch the drugs smuggled through their territory. But sanctions against all of them were waived in the American national interest, largely because of their political and economic fragility in moving toward democratic rule.
Although Haiti has become a significant shipment point for cocaine and other drugs smuggled into the United States, the State Department said the sanctions mandated by decertification would mean eliminating American programs propping up the battered Haitian economy.
"All of us are deeply concerned about that country's deteriorating situation," Attorney General Janet Reno said today at the briefing announcing the certification decisions.
Twenty-two other countries identified with drug production or trafficking were certified by Washington on the grounds that their governments were grappling with the problem. They include Pakistan, which reduced opium cultivation by 26 percent last year, and Peru and Bolivia, where cultivation of coca leaf, the raw ingredient for cocaine, fell 26 percent and 17 percent respectively.
Mexico remains the primary transport route for Colombian cocaine smuggled into the United States, as well as a major source of heroin, marijuana and methamphetamine and a center for laundering drug money, according to the annual International Narcotics Control Strategy Report released today by the State Department. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 109 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); MYANMAR (94%); HAITI (94%); NIGERIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: ;JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; COLOMBIA; AFGHANISTAN; MYANMAR; CAMBODIA; HAITI; NIGERIA; PARAGUAY; UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); MYANMAR (94%); HAITI (94%); NIGERIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); VETO (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EXTRADITION (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); OPIUM (73%); COCAINE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); 

PERSON: WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HASTERT, DENNIS (SPEAKER); COVERDELL, PAUL (SEN); FEINSTEIN, DIANNE (SEN); RENO, JANET (ATTY GEN) BILL CLINTON (90%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (89%); JOHN L MICA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



591 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Bonds Rally After 3-Day Slump, but Equities Don't Join In

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Bond prices rallied yesterday, ending a three-day slide that sent interest rates to their highest levels since August. But even with the rebound, interest rates still remain high and are still a threat to the outlook for the stock market.
The stock market reflected this view, as the major indexes all declined, ending a volatile week on a down note. Another round of worries about technology stocks also pulled equities lower. 
 Compaq Computer plunged almost 14 percent after some analysts downgraded their expectations for first-quarter sales and profits. The revisions at Credit Suisse First Boston came after a meeting with Compaq executives, who said that January sales had been soft.
The sales weakness raised concern about the entire computer industry at a time when investors are wondering if the sharp run-up in technology stocks since October is still justifiable given the earning prospects for the year.
I.B.M., down 2.2 percent, and Hewlett-Packard, off 6.7 percent, led the Dow Jones industrial average lower. Intel, down 6.1 percent, and Microsoft, off 2.2 percent, weighed on the Nasdaq composite index and the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks.
But what has really been spooking investors almost all week is the hangover from the testimony about the economy and monetary policy given Tuesday and Wednesday by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Although Mr. Greenspan presented a balanced outlook, investors seemed bent on focusing on the negatives. Bond yields had already been rising all month because investors were worried that the strong growth at the end of last year and the absence of signs of a slowdown in the first months of 1999 would force the Fed to raise interest rates to slow the economy. With this bias, investors seemed to seize on one comment from the chairman that hinted at a rate increase later in the year.
And there could be more volatile weeks ahead as the Federal Reserve and Wall Street analysts await new data on the economy. Even if the economy begins to slow, as many economists still expect, there are likely to be no signs of this any earlier than April, when the data for March are reported.
"It is going to take some time before the market is convinced," said Mitchell J. Held, co-manager of United States economics at Salomon Smith Barney. And because data for February still look strong, that means interest rates could move higher in the near term, he said.
Bond traders said that yesterday's rally was a product of three factors: the three-day selloff had gone too far, too fast; the highest yields in more than six months were attracting some investors, and the report that inflation in the fourth quarter dipped to an annual rate of seven-tenths of a percent, the lowest rate in more than 40 years.
This positive note on inflation was reassuring because it showed once again that the economy was still managing to outfox traditional economic theories and grow swiftly without rising prices. For this reason, the Commerce Department's report that the economy grew at a blistering 6.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter had much less negative impact than it might have had.
In late bond trading, the price of the 30-year bond rose 1 4/32 , to 95 11/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.57 percent, from 5.65 percent Thursday. The yield had fallen as low as 5.54 percent earlier in the day.
Trading in the stock market was as volatile as in the bond market. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 32 points in early trading and down as much as 113 points. It finished off 59.76, or six-tenths of a percent, at 9,306.58.
The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks dropped 6.69 points, or half a percent, to 1,238.33, while the Nasdaq index, which is laden with technology stocks, fell 38.79 points, or 1.67 percent, to 2,288.03.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Feb. 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (92%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



592 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
No Agreement on Reducing Europe Farm Subsidies

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: BONN, Feb. 26

 BODY:
European heads of state, meeting here today, failed to agree on plans to reduce their enormous farm subsidies. But there were nevertheless signs that once-sacred programs may soon come in for an overhaul.
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, who is in the midst of a six-month term as president of the European Union, is pushing hard to scale back the subsidies and production quotas for milk, beef and scores of other products that help farmers but keep consumer prices artificially high. 
 Germany contributes nearly $25 billion a year to the European Union, far more than any other country and more than twice what it gets back through economic or social programs.
Farm programs constitute nearly half of the European Union's $100 billion budget, and they are probably its most politically sensitive component. On Monday, as European farm ministers began a fruitless four-day effort to negotiate changes, 30,000 farmers demonstrated loudly in Brussels. And today, dairy farmers posted hundreds of protest signs on the road leading up to Petersburg castle, just outside of Bonn, where European leaders are holding a summit meeting.
The leaders spent most of their time today staking out rival positions, in preparation for negotiations in the weeks ahead. They will hold a more formal summit conference in Berlin on March 25, and are hoping to complete a deal then.
The issue is not just saving money in the European budget. The European Commission, the administrative arm of the European Union, argues that farm programs must be scaled back if the union is to proceed with plans to admit Central European countries like Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
Farm prices in all the Central European countries are far below those in Western Europe, and those countries' entry into Europe's internal free-trade zone would create unmanageable imbalances if the price disparities were still in force.
The issue also affects Europe's negotiating position in the next round of world trade talks. As long as their agricultural markets remain highly protected and artificially overpriced, European officials argue, their bargaining position will be weak against big farm exporters like the United States and Canada.
"Solidarity between rich and poor is important, because the poor are entitled to it," Mr. Schroder said shortly after the summit meeting adjourned. "But solidarity is not a one-way street."
President Jacques Chirac of France, whose country receives by far the most farm support, rejected some of Mr. Schroder's basic ideas for reform -- particularly his idea that individual governments should pay for more of their farm subsidies on their own.
"We must start afresh on this chapter and on a new basis," Mr. Chirac said.
Dairy quotas have been one of the most bitterly divisive issues. Strict quotas for each country limit output and keep prices high. Dairy farmers from Germany, the Netherlands, France and elsewhere have been a powerful force against reduction. Net importers of milk, like Italy and Greece, argue that the quotas need to be reduced if not abolished.
In addition to farm programs, European leaders are feuding over other parts of the pie: regional aid for areas with high unemployment, as well as the so-called cohesion support that was designated for Spain and Portugal. Spain contributes about 5 billion euros to the European Union, but receives more than 11 billion euros through regional aid and cohesion support.
Spanish leaders are fighting cutbacks. Meanwhile, Britain refuses to part with about 3 billion euros in aid that was promised at the time it was admitted to the European Union -- even though unemployment is much lower in Britain today than it is in most other European countries.
Despite the intense sensitivity toward reducing support programs, leaders came out of today's meeting apparently ready to keep talking.
"Nobody expected this summit to reach any conclusions, and it didn't," said Belgium's Prime Minister, Jean-Luc Dehaene. He said the meeting allowed the ministers to "see more clearly where the problems are."
Mr. Schroder said the leaders agreed that the farm budget needed to be capped at its current level of about 40 billion euros, and that the European Union's total budget should not exceed 1.27 percent of its combined gross domestic product.
He said the leaders all remained committed to moving ahead with the admission of Central European countries, which would require a reform of the farm programs to begin in the next year or two.
If experience is any guide, the bargaining will almost certainly continue late into the night of the March 25 meeting in Berlin.
"I'm not going to minimize the differences of opinion," Mr. Schroder said. "But there are always differences of opinion over money."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Stronger Growth in France
 PARIS, Feb. 26 (Bloomberg News) -- The French economy expanded a greater-than-expected seven-tenths of a percent in the fourth quarter and unemployment fell to its lowest since August 1995, Government reports showed today.
The expansion raised France's 1998 growth to 3.2 percent, its highest this decade. That encouraged companies to hire, pushing the jobless rate down to 11.4 percent in January from 11.5 percent in December.
The growth in gross domestic product was underpinned by buoyant consumer spending on products like mobile phones, computers and cars. Economic reports from Spain and the Netherlands this week also showed greater-than-expected growth, damping fears that Europe is heading for recession.
The French Government is predicting that the economy will accelerate in the second half, led by consumer demand. Consumers in France account for a greater portion of growth than in most other European countries.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jacques Chirac of France after yesterday's meeting. (Reuters)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (59%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (59%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE AND RANCHING; EUROPE AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); DAIRY FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (79%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); AGRICULTURE (71%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (77%); JACQUES CHIRAC (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



593 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: John Kerry, Citing Time and Money, Won't Run for President

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts officially broke off his flirtation with a run for the Democratic Presidential nomination today, saying that to raise the millions he would need quickly enough was simply beyond him.
"I have concluded that to raise the necessary amount of money with only 10 months to do so, compounded by the newly accelerated primary schedule, simply isn't possible at this time," Mr. Kerry said. "I have also concluded that, at this point in time, my not running may be more helpful to our party's effort to win in November." 
 With Mr. Kerry's decision, the field of possible Democratic candidates in 2000 appears to have narrowed to Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, both of whom have announced their intentions to run, and the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who has said he is considering a run.
Mr. Kerry said the Senate impeachment trial put him at a disadvantage by grounding him in Washington right when he wanted to be traveling to put out Presidential feelers.
But "I'm not going to blame it on that," he said. "There's a totality here of the judgment. But did that have a profound impact, losing six weeks? Sure it did."
It did, but political strategists also pointed to a Gore campaign already so active that it had enlisted the support of several top Massachusetts fund-raisers, depriving Mr. Kerry of an easy base even here in his home state.
Mr. Kerry has an affinity for the Vice President's positions on issues and is friends with him. But even if he were to consider the role of the maverick challenger to the party establishment's candidate, analysts said, the position had already been staked out -- by Mr. Bradley.
"The question really was, 'Was there room on the playing field for two insurgent, long-shot candidacies?' " said Michael Goldman, a Democratic consultant.
Still, allies who had been gearing up to cross the border to work on Mr. Kerry's behalf in the New Hampshire primary said today that they were disappointed. Though Mr. Kerry's stands on the issues may be much the same as Mr. Gore's, they said, Mr. Kerry could have brought strong personal qualities to a candidacy -- and a nice clean distance from a Clinton Administration tarred by scandal and investigations.
"I don't know how much this Clinton thing is going to hurt Gore," said Michael Albano, Mayor of Springfield, Mass., and a strong Kerry supporter who had urged him to run. "How much is the country going to say, 'Maybe we should look elsewhere, maybe we should look to the Republican Party'?"
Whom Mr. Kerry's withdrawal would help more, Mr. Gore or Mr. Bradley, remained an open question. A senior Gore campaign adviser said today that it would be helpful to have one competitor fewer, particularly from a state right next to New Hampshire.
On the other hand, Mr. Kerry's absence, combined with recent decisions not to run by Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, among others, also meant that those who opposed Mr. Gore would now likely unite around Mr. Bradley, and their numbers might seem to swell.
"Bill Bradley in effect becomes the cynosure of all political eyes as a result of this," said Edward Jesser, a Democratic consultant. "I think that Bradley's ability to raise money will soar with no Kerry or Gephardt in the mix."
Mr. Kerry told reporters today that he planned to endorse another candidate but would not specify which. He said he planned to play an active role in the campaign.
Asked why he and his wife, Teresa Heinz, who inherited hundreds of millions of dollars of the Heinz food fortune, did not simply spend their own money on a campaign, Mr. Kerry said, "Both of us feel very strongly at this point in time that it's not appropriate."
He did not elaborate. Mr. Kerry also refuses to take money from political action committees.
The junior senator from Massachusetts, Mr. Kerry first gained national attention as an organizer of Vietnam Veterans Against the War in the 1970's. First elected in 1984, he will face his next election in 2002 and is considered a fittingly liberal senator for what is one of the more liberal states.
Describing what motivated him to consider running in the first place, Mr. Kerry listed the issues he had wanted to champion: improving America's schools; fighting poverty, especially among children; reconfiguring government; overhauling health care, and creating a new American foreign policy suited to a global economy.
"My heart loves these issues," he said. "My heart said, 'Go out and fight for these things.' My head said, 'The day after I make the announcement I've got to raise an exorbitant of money and do it all in 10 months.'
"And," he continued, "the difficulty this time is, you've got five -- or six, maybe, ultimately -- states in which you are spending simultaneously before even one vote is counted in Iowa. And that's different from the way it's been in any prior Presidential race, and that's what makes it very complicated."
Asked if he would consider running in 2004, Mr. Kerry said it was too early to discuss.
But Ms. Heinz, who accompanied her husband to his press conference, had a ready answer when a reporter asked whether he would run in the future.
"If he doesn't become a curmudgeon," she said, smiling.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry, with his wife, Teresa Heinz, at his side, announced yesterday in Boston that he would not seek the Democratic nomination. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); IMPEACHMENT (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: KERRY, JOHN F (SEN); GOLDBERG, CAREY JOHN KERRY (95%); AL GORE (79%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



594 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: Bias at the Bull;
Merrill Lynch's Class-Action Settlement Draws a Crowd

BYLINE: By ANN WOZENCRAFT

 BODY:
In October, Merrill Lynch & Company held an all-day marketing symposium at the Parker Meridien Hotel in Manhattan for more than 100 of its women brokers. At one session, panelists discussed an on-line forum, to begin the following week, in which investors could sign up to receive Merrill Lynch research if they agreed to be contacted by a broker. The program promised to generate thousands of solid client leads.
"How will these leads be distributed?" one woman asked. 
 The brokers "have already been chosen by their managers," a panelist said.
"Has anyone in this room been chosen?" another woman asked.
Not one woman raised her hand.
"There was almost an insurrection," said one woman who attended the meeting. "It was discrimination personified. We couldn't believe that all the leads were going to men."
Merrill says that women were in fact well represented among the brokers selected, but for many at the meeting, the lack of hands rankled deeply -- if only because of the timing. Merrill was already embroiled in a sexual-discrimination suit. On Sept. 2, a Federal judge in Chicago had given final approval to a class-action settlement of a case filed by one current and seven former Merrill brokers who contended that the firm had discriminated against women in wages, promotions, account distributions, maternity leaves and other areas.
If anything, that October meeting helped build the numbers of women seeking redress. For even as Merrill Lynch was holding its symposium at the Parker Meridien, plaintiffs' lawyers were holding their own meetings at the nearby Waldorf-Astoria.
"It was an awakening, and the beginning of a groundswell in the number of people deciding to file claims," said Linda Friedman of Stowell & Friedman, a Chicago law firm representing the plaintiffs. "We had expected a small turnout, but women kept coming over all day."
Tuesday is the last day women can file a claim, and at least 900 are doing so, or 31 percent of those eligible -- a turnout far higher than expected, according to Mary Stowell, another lawyer representing the plaintiffs. Indeed, a typical response to a class-action call is about 3 percent, legal experts said.
The response has been strong at least in part because women at Merrill heard of the suit from co-workers; a consumer class action often involves a more disjointed group. And unlike some settlements, there is no limit to the amount the women can receive.
John L. Steffens, vice chairman of Merrill and head of its retail brokerage division, denied any pattern of discrimination at Merrill and said the firm had long been committed to improving its workplace. Many initiatives have benefited women, he said, including a 13-week paid maternity leave and a flexible telecommuting program. Since the end of 1997, two women have been named to the 18-member executive management committee.
"We are absolutely serious about making this a terrific place to work for a variety of diverse groups," he said. "It's a little difficult for me to comment precisely since I haven't seen any of the claims. Am I going to do something when I get the facts? You can bet on it."
Some do not regard the industry as terrific. "It's the last bastion of testosterone gone wild," said Marybeth Cremin, the lawsuit's original plaintiff. "This industry has been allowed to discriminate for years."
Ms. Cremin, of Wilmette, Ill., said that after getting her master's degree in business administration, she was drawn to the brokerage business by the potential for a high salary and the flexible hours. Instead, she said, she was paid less than male colleagues, not given high-revenue accounts even after she felt she earned them, not sent to training seminars, and penalized when she was on maternity leave.
She said she was dismissed in 1995 after her fourth child, Maryclare, was born, though she had often brought in close to $500,000 in business annually. She filed her suit in 1996, then was joined by seven others the following year.
"I don't expect the cards to be stacked in my favor, I just want it to be an even playing field," she said. "I hope Merrill and other firms will wake up and realize the resources they have in women employees and invest in training them."
Some women in the Merrill case charge harassment, but most focus on what they see as a pattern of economic disparity. Among their chief concerns are how accounts from departing brokers, walk-ins, leads and referrals are distributed.
Janna Brattain spent 10 years as a broker for Merrill in Anchorage and has filed a claim. She said that after she complained that women did not have the same access to top accounts, she was later dismissed.
"The top men brokers were fed the pick of the business, while everyone else got the crumbs," she said.
The suit has Wall Street paying attention, especially since it follows the infamous "boom-boom room" case involving the brokerage firm then known as Smith Barney. In 1996, three women from its office in Garden City, N.Y., filed a class-action suit charging the firm with sexual discrimination; the office, they said, maintained a fraternity-house culture in a basement where a toilet seat hung from the ceiling and Bloody Marys were served. The suit, also handled by Stowell & Friedman, now includes 22,500 former and current employees. A settlement became final in July, and the claims process began on Feb. 1.
"It was a wake-up call to the industry," said Michael Schlein, director of corporate development at what is now Salomon Smith Barney, a unit of Citigroup. "Smith Barney saw this as an opportunity to increase the momentum for change."
In 1995, 11 percent of its brokers were women; that rose to 15 percent by last year. The firm also agreed to a number of changes. It set a goal of having women make up a third of broker trainees hired -- reaching 31 percent last year -- and of raising the number of women and minorities in branch-manager posts.
Both lawsuits underscore how entrenched the obstacles still are for women on Wall Street. Women now account for about half the industry's work force, but relatively few have risen to top management.
"It's an old boys' network," said Patricia Ireland, president of the National Organization for Women. "Changing the culture of the securities industry doesn't just happen because of the passage of time. It comes because of the women who are willing to push hard and the men who are willing to support them." The large number of women brokers at Merrill claiming bias, she said, "gives the pendulum a big push."
According to Catalyst, a group that monitors how women are treated in the workplace, stereotypes have held the brokers back. "There's a perception that women are not aggressive or tough enough, that they're not business-getters," said Sheila Wellington, Catalyst's president. "As firms determine that women constitute important new markets for them, they'll realize that there is a sound business reason for diversity."
Under the settlement, the 2,897 women employed in Merrill's domestic retail brokerage business between Jan. 1, 1994, and June 18, 1998, can seek compensation. The process requires an investigation by the firm within 60 days and then mediation. If no settlement is reached, the claim will go to binding arbitration before a panel agreed to by both sides.
Merrill has long dominated the brokerage business, with 715 offices nationwide. But even as it has grown, the presence of women brokers has essentially remained steady. Of Merrill's 13,410 brokers in 1998, 2,114, or 15.8 percent, were women. In 1990, it was 1,609 of 10,464, or 15.4 percent.
Merrill has several "clubs" that recognize brokers producing more than $1 million, $1.75 million, or $2.5 million in annual revenue. In 1991, the firm said, women constituted 8.1 percent of the clubs' members; last year, the representation was up to 9.5 percent. Merrill, however, did not break out figures for how many women were in each club.
As part of the settlement, Merrill became the first firm to end mandatory arbitration for sexual discrimination and other civil rights claims. Employees with claims after July 1, 1998, may go to court. Paine Webber Group has adopted a similar policy.
"The securities industry has made an end run around civil rights laws by keeping its complaints out of the court system, so it's a step in the right direction," Ms. Friedman said.
About half of those filing claims are current employees, and many of those said they hoped to stay with Merrill. "We wouldn't be taking this kind of risk if it was just about the money," said one woman broker with more than 10 years of experience. "We want respect. And we're tired of going to work every day 10 steps behind all the men."
Not all the eligible women plan to file claims. Subha Barry, who runs Merrill's Plainsboro, N.J., office, said she had had great success working from within. When her second child was born, Merrill set up a terminal in her home and added telephone and fax lines.
"Certainly, there were incidents of golf outings and baseball games where women weren't included," Ms. Barry said. "So I went to my manager and said, 'Don't count me out just because I don't golf.' He ended up organizing golf lessons for the women."
For his part, Mr. Steffens said that the firm was committed to diversity and two-way communication. "I want to see us promote the best and the brightest," he said. "It's the only way we're going to be able to compete."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marybeth Cremin, above with two of her children, William and Maryclare, first sued Merrill Lynch for bias in 1996; her suit attracted hundreds of brokers, including Janna Brattain, shown with her daughter, Olivia, and son, Preston. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Discrimination on Wall Street"
Merrill Lynch and Salomon Smith Barney have both settled class-action lawsuits brought by women brokers alleging sexual discrimination. Here are some steps each firm is taking as part of the settlements.
 
MERRILL LYNCH
Of Merrill's 13,400 brokers in 1998, 2,100 were women, or 15.6%.
 
EMPLOYMENT DISPUTES
Provides for a faster, easier system for resolving claims.
ASSIGNING ACCOUNTS
Establishes a more open and fairer method for sharing leads.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Does not penalize brokers for time off in determining bonuses and production quotas.
 
SALOMON SMITH BARNEY
Of Salomon's 9,900 brokers in 1998, 1,485 were women, or 15%.
 
HIRING GOAL
Aims to make women at least one-third of new trainees annually.
PROMOTION GOALS
Substantially increases number of women and minorities in managerial and headquarters positions.
EVALUATION
Has hired an independent monitor to evaluate programs and supervise increased spending on diversity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (96%); MER (NYSE) (96%); 8675 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO (MER) MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO (MER)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DISCRIMINATION; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); WOMEN (90%); LAWYERS (89%); MATERNITY LEAVE (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); APPROVALS (66%); JUDGES (66%); TELECOMMUTING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



595 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Bond Prices End Decline, But Stocks Continue to Fall
Bond prices rallied, ending a three-day slide that sent interest rates to their highest levels since August. But even with the rebound, interest rates remain high and continue to pose a threat to the outlook for the stock market. 
 The stock market reflected this view, as the major indexes all declined, ending a volatile week on a down note. A new round of worries about technology stocks also pulled equities lower. The Dow Jones industrial average finished off 59.76 points, or six-tenths of a percent, at 9,306.58. The Nasdaq composite index, which is heavily laden with technology stocks, fell 38.79 points, or 1.67 percent, to 2,288.03, and the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks dropped 6.69 points, to 1,238.33. Page C3.
 
Economic Growth Surged Last Year
The United States economy waltzed into 1999 even more merrily than previously thought. The nation's output of goods and services grew at a 6.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of 1998, considerably more rapidly than the 5.6 percent annual rate estimated last month by the Commerce Department. For the year, the economy grew 3.9 percent, after adjusting for inflation. The total output of goods and services in 1998, at current prices, exceeded $8.5 trillion. A1.
 
Ford Adds a Sport Utility Vehicle
Ford Motor introduced the Excursion, the world's largest sport utility vehicle. But the auto maker said the design addressed safety concerns raised by the number and size of large passenger vehicles on the roads. Hollow steel bars mounted below the Excursion's front and rear bumpers would prevent the vehicle from overriding cars in collisions. A8.
 
A Los Angeles Landmark Is Sold
The Century Plaza Hotel and Tower in Los Angeles has been sold by Nippon Life Insurance of Japan to a group of private investors for $260 million. C2.
 
Glucose Sensor Advances
A panel of advisers to the Food and Drug Administration recommended approval of the world's first continuous glucose sensor fordiabetics. The device holds promise of freeing diabetics from the need to measure their blood sugar levels by means of finger pricks. Additionally, the developer of the device, Minimed, asserts that continuous monitoring of blood sugar levels would provide more detailed information, allowing diabetics to better control their blood sugar levels. C3.
 
Intel's Pentium III on Store Shelves
Under a growing cloud of controversy about an embedded identification number -- and in the face of the most competitive market Intel has faced -- the company's powerful new microprocessor, the Pentium III, began appearing on store shelves in computers priced as low as $1,599. C2.
 
Regulators Postpone Olivetti Ruling
The regulatory agency for the Italian stock market postponed a decision on the validity of Olivetti's revised $60 billion takeover bid for Telecom Italia. The agency said a decision might be announced today. C3.
 
Philips Offers $17 a Share for VLSI
Royal Philips Electronics offered to buy VLSI Technology for $17 a share, or $776.9 million, in cash, as the Dutch industrial giant seeks to bolster its presence in the United States chip market. But analysts said rival bids might well emerge for the Silicon Valley semiconductor maker. C2.
 
Cash Infusion for Patriot American
After weeks of tense negotiations, Patriot American Hospitality agreed to accept a $1 billion equity infusion from investors led by Apollo Real Estate Advisors. The agreement is expected to help the real estate investment trust regain its financial footing and to torpedo a counterproposal from Hilton Hotels to buy several of its hotels. C3.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,306.58 down 59.76
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.57% down 0.06
The Dollar -- 119.17 yen down 0.46
 
Graph tracks the NASDAQ composite since January 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); INTEL CORP (84%); NIPPON LIFE INSURANCE FOUNDATION (53%); NIPPON LIFE INSURANCE CO (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (86%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); DIABETES (66%); DIABETES TESTING (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); APPROVALS (61%); MICROPROCESSORS (60%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



596 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2877 words

HEADLINE: As Need for Food Grows, Donations Steadily Drop

SERIES: EMPTY SHELVES: Second of two articles.

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Ron Taritas was sitting in his office on the lake front in Chicago, phone in hand, dialing for donations. He was not having a very good day.
As one of four full-time food brokers at Second Harvest, the country's largest nonprofit clearinghouse for donations to soup kitchens and food pantries, Mr. Taritas has the job of reeling in the grocery industry's castoffs -- the mislabeled cans, outdated cartons and unpopular brands that will never make it to supermarket shelves. 
 But eight hours into this day, his best catch was 4,000 cases of Puffed Wheat, Raisin Bran, Honey Smacks and other cereals. Beyond that, all he had to show for his work was 32 cases of chocolate-crunch energy bars from a warehouse in Honolulu, 500 cases of bottled spring water from Tucson, Ariz., and 5,000 cases of Cremora from Columbus, Ohio.
"Some days," Mr. Taritas said, "it's like catching smoke."
These are anxious times at Second Harvest, the hub of America's sprawling system of church-basement soup kitchens and food pantries. Over nearly two decades, that network has expanded to serve more than $1 billion worth of food each year to 20 million Americans. But now, as changes in welfare policy push many people away from the public dole, private charity is lagging ever further behind in its efforts to feed the lengthening lines.
Part of the problem, by the charities' account, is rising demand on a system that was never really able to keep up in the first place. Last year, Second Harvest calculated that it would have to double the flow of food to supply everyone seeking help.
But the supply side has begun to hit hard times, too. Most troubling to the charities is the cooling of their traditional symbiotic relationship with America's food-making giants, in which millions of tons of surplus food products has flowed to people in need.
From the first, the key to that relationship was the industry's propensity for waste -- and the charities' eagerness to make it go away, gracefully. But in the streamlining spirit of business in the late 1990's, the food makers are simply making fewer errors. And so there is less surplus food to pass along.
These days, a mantra of grocery manufacturers is "zero defects." Chicken not good enough for cutlets is pressed into nuggets; scraps not good enough for nuggets are pulverized into pet food. Sales figures from checkout scanners are fed daily to manufacturers, allowing factories to fine-tune their output to match demand.
And in the last few years, heaps of dented or out-of-date cans and cartons have become the basis for an estimated $2 billion-a-year market in "unsalable" food. Instead of being donated, damaged goods are exported to developing countries or resold at sharp discounts in suburban flea markets, unlicensed stores in rural areas or warehouse-style outlets.
Certainly, the grocery makers still turn out a lot of surplus food. But over the last three years, after rising steadily for more than 15 years, the donations that are the core of Second Harvest's business have fallen 10 percent. And while a glut of pork and the Asian economic crisis allowed the Federal Government to kick in an unexpected burst of unsold meat and produce last year, demand is increasingly outstripping supply.
Although the drop is not enormous, it has already begun to reverberate across the far-flung charity network. From Second Harvest to the regional food banks and then down to the local outlets, the charities have been forced to devise all manner of new strategies to keep the food coming. They are cutting new deals with the grocery makers. They are reaching out to farmers and fishermen. Mainly, they are spending more of their time and scant money chasing additional, but smaller, donations from local sources instead of big corporations.
Some food pantries and soup kitchens remain relatively flush. But across the country, thousands of others are cutting hours, limiting the size and frequency of handouts, rationing coveted items like hot dogs and peanut butter and seeking unorthodox supplements like road-killed deer, according to state and local surveys and Second Harvest reports. Some are even having to turn people away.
Last year, half the food charities in New York City cut the size of handouts at least part of the year, according to a survey by the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, a private group. Largely for lack of food, the coalition has begun counseling churches and synagogues against setting up new pantries and soup kitchens.
At the end of the emergency-food chain -- the men, women and children standing in line at the church-basement door -- that faltering flow of donations is calling into question the notion that private charity should, and can, soften the sting of losing public entitlements. These days, a lot of people in the food-banking business are worrying that a system created as a supplement to public aid is turning out to be an increasingly ineffective substitute for it.
 
The Charity Network
Source in a Crisis Is Now a Mainstay
Twenty-five years ago, the only food bank in New Jersey was Kathleen DiChiara, a homemaker from Summit who carted canned goods in her station wagon from food drives at churches to people in need. Around the country, food pantries and soup kitchens were almost unknown beyond Skid Row.
But as the deep recession of the early 1980's took hold, followed by the budget cuts of the Reagan era, growing numbers of people found themselves without adequate food. Dozens, and then hundreds, of soup kitchens and food pantries sprouted where none had been seen since the Depression.
Even so, Ms. DiChiara recalled, there was always a feeling that the crisis would pass: Congress would restore money for social programs; the economy would revive.
But while the economy rebounded and Congress provided relief for the poor, the demand for food handouts grew, along with the charity network. And by the late 1980's, people in the food-banking business had begun to realize that they were becoming a fixture on the American landscape -- more a secondary safety net than an emergency source of food.
Today, Ms. DiChiara runs one of the biggest food-banking operations in the country, the Community Food Bank of New Jersey, with a fleet of trucks that each month distributes a million pounds of food out of a 280,000-square-foot warehouse. New York City, which had only three dozen pantries and soup kitchens in 1980, had 600 in 1992 and now has about 1,100. Across the nation, the food network is more than 40,000 soup kitchens and food pantries strong, with more than 3,000 paid employees and 900,000 volunteers.
Almost from the beginning, the food network formed a tight alliance with grocery manufacturers. The charities offered a perfect outlet, allowing manufacturers and stores to dispose of damaged or unsold goods, cut dumping costs, gain tax breaks and get some good publicity along the way.
Soon, the relationship was institutionalized in formal agreements, and food company executives joined the boards of Second Harvest and its regional food banks. But all along, there was a queasy feeling that this cozy, co-dependent relationship could not last. Sooner or later, the food bankers knew, they would begin to pay for their reliance on the industry's prodigal past.
Soon after Thomas Debrowski became head of operations for the Pillsbury Company in 1991, the community relations people walked into his office in Minneapolis and presented him with records of the regular annual donation of several million pounds of flawed or unsold food to Second Harvest.
"They wanted to know if we wanted to increase it," Mr. Debrowski recalls. "I said, 'Increase? My objective is to give them nothing next year.' "
To an executive charged with burnishing the bottom line, in a business climate where everyone was on the prowl for greater efficiencies, the idea that millions of pounds of food was either failing inspection or going stale in warehouses was not acceptable. And before long, like most of the big food companies, Pillsbury instituted economies up and down the production line.
On the line for Green Giant Niblets brand corn, where workers once picked out discolored kernels by hand, electronic eyes now detect the rejects, and a puff of air blasts the offending kernel from the conveyer belt. Shipping containers that tended to be crushed have been redesigned. At a Minute Maid Hi-C fruit punch plant in Wharton, N.J., the process has been streamlined so that the raw ingredients arrive just 6 to 10 hours before a batch of juice is packaged, maintaining freshness and reducing the chance of a bad run. Where previously juice was not tested for quality until it had been canned, continual checks are now made for factors like sweetness, flavor, color and vitamin content right on the assembly line.
Improvements in marketing have paralleled those in manufacturing.
In the wasteful old days, new products were tested according to the Darwinian laws of the marketplace: A company would blanket the nation with various new snack foods, for example, knowing that some were sure to fail. Only the fittest survived. The rest ended up in somebody's food bank.
Now, instead of "pushing" products out into the market, as industry argot would have it, the focus is on having them "pulled" into stores. That means doing research to gauge consumer interests, testing products in carefully dissected markets before distributing them widely and tailoring production to sales. The result is far fewer stacks of failed experiments and formerly fashionable foods, like the oat bran cookies and muffins that became a staple at the nation's food banks after the fad faded in the early 90's.
Over all, what this means is that after rising steadily until 1995, when they reached 285 million pounds, annual donations from the big national food companies dropped to 259 million pounds in 1998.
To a certain extent, the food charities had become their own worst enemy by making waste so identifiable, said Janet E. Poppendieck, a Hunter College sociologist and author of a new book, "Sweet Charity: Emergency Food and the End of Entitlement" (Viking Press, 1998).
"No firm is going to continue to put labels on jars upside down so that there will be peanut butter at the food bank," she said.
 
'Banana Box Deals'
New Competition For Flawed Goods
At the supermarket, the can or carton of soup or cereal that still fails to sell, or is dented after falling off a truck or store shelf, remains the biggest single source of food for the charity pipeline.
Now, in a shift that has the companies and the charities alarmed, more and more of these products are finding their way back out to paying consumers.
Over the last decade, a host of "reclamation centers" have evolved as a way for supermarket chains to tally damage and charge manufacturers for losses. At the centers, leaky packages are thrown out, and any usable products are repacked in the rectangular cartons in which bananas are shipped. Some are donated to Second Harvest, particularly if the manufacturer requested that option. But, more and more, the cans and cartons are sold, at pennies on the dollar, to wholesalers who sell them yet again.
One recent posting on a Web site for salvaged goods, by a Massachusetts company called I-ADA Merchandise Marketing, made this offer: "Eight trailer loads of food from one of the leading department store chains in the U.S.A. All food is in date and has been gone through to discard any unmarketable merchandise. This is super clean merchandise. Packed in banana boxes. All boxes are full. You will not find a better banana box deal!!!!!"
In this trade, Second Harvest sees competition for a scarce resource. Companies like Lipton, Campbell Soup and Quaker Oats find themselves in a tug of war with their retailers over control of this damaged merchandise. With brand names they have nurtured for decades, the manufacturers fear liability and loss of consumer loyalty if a flea market shopper becomes ill after eating one of their products on this largely unregulated market. For their part, the retailers say the goods are their property to dispose of as they wish.
So far, this emerging market has not significantly slowed the flow of donated damaged goods to charities, but staff members at several large food charities project that it will. Indeed, clearly threatened by this booming trade, Second Harvest this year said it would enter the salvage business itself, offering to provide a secure final resting spot for damaged goods, distributing usable items only through its charity network and destroying anything that cannot be used.
 
Reinventing the Deal
Factory Runs For the Hungry
Second Harvest and smaller food charities are trying a host of other strategies as they scurry to keep goods on charity shelves.
"Everyone knew the charities were going to be expected to do more now," Ms. DiChiara said. "What I'm finding is that we're expected to do more with less."
Increasingly, they are being forced to reinvent their relationship with food makers.
Until two years ago, Golden Grain, a pasta maker, donated thousands of pounds of noodles each month to the Greater Chicago Food Depository, the second largest food bank in the Second Harvest network. But donations fell after the company figured out how to grind up substandard pasta and feed it back through its machines, said the food bank's executive director, Michael P. Mulqueen.
Ultimately, the food bank and the pasta maker came up with a way to compensate for lost donations by running the factory at times of low market demand to create noodles just for the food bank, Mr. Mulqueen said. Pillsbury's Thomas Debrowski instituted a similar practice several years ago, and Minute Maid has begun making juice for Second Harvest. Some other companies, like Kraft, have shifted to cash donations.
Charities are also approaching farmers to scavenge leftover crops, conducting the Biblical "second harvest" for which the national group is named. The Clinton Administration last year announced plans for an ambitious campaign to glean some of the mountains of imperfect produce that now go to waste each year.
And last year, Second Harvest began distributing tons of Pacific Northwest fish that is caught in nets but cannot be sold because of Federal regulations controlling some fish stocks. The program, created with Northwest Food Strategies, a nonprofit group in Seattle, now sends frozen salmon, halibut and other fish around the country.
As always, canned-food drives by scouting groups and religious congregations are being employed, but they provide a fraction of the total flow, and the assortment of goods often does not contain the foods that are most needed -- stew or cereal and the like. At the Neighbor to Neighbor food pantry in Greenwich, Conn., there is a "gourmet section," which recently contained goose liver pate, lemon curd and bamboo shoots.
Over all, experience has produced a discouraging sense at Second Harvest and other food banks that whenever they identify a new source of food, it seems to dry up.
"You peck away," said James Barone, who is in charge of procuring supplies for Food for Survival, the main New York city food bank. "And it's a constant battle."
For several years, trucks and crews from Food for Survival have toured the Hunt's Point produce market in the Bronx each morning after the supermarkets or other retailers have bought their supply for the day, seeking donations of overripe tomatoes or wilted lettuce or whatever else is left.
But the city's greengrocers appear to have noticed, and they often now wait until the end of the morning sales period, then offer cash, at a lower-than-usual price, for goods that might once have found their way into the charity system.
 
Limits on Charity
Bare Cupboards And Saying No
At the food pantry in the basement of St. Raymond's Roman Catholic Church in the Parkchester section of the Bronx, the impact of the irregular flow of goods is apparent as soon as you walk in the door.
There is the large sign on a bulletin board: "Alert. This food pantry is experiencing shortages. We reserve the right to limit quantities, limit the number of visits, extend the time between visits at any time and without prior notice."
And there are the plastic bags of canned goods, rice and cereal handed out to a steady stream of old people, young women and a few young men. These days, the volunteers making up the grocery bags have less to choose from, because of a backlog of orders at Food for Survival.
Even basics like bread and juice are lacking lately, said Priscilla DiNapoli, the program's paid coordinator. When the Kellogg's Corn Flakes run out, as they inevitably do, the workers hand out Department of Agriculture crisp rice cereal printed with a message encouraging users to extend their other meals with cereal.
The flow of food was not coming close to keeping pace with rising demand, as many as 1,500 clients a month, Ms. DiNapoli said. So last spring, instead of letting people return every two weeks, the agency began limiting them to one visit a month, she said. "We just don't have the food."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joan McKibben filling orders from nearly barren shelves at the East Bronx Hunger Program food pantry. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. A1); POTTSTOWN, PA. -- The D.R.S. Warehouse Outlet, where damaged food goods are sold at a discount. THE BRONX -- Harry Figueroa, gathering beans at Food for Survival for a church in Manhattan. MILTON, N.Y. -- Carlos Rivera of the Food Bank of the Hudson Valley loading food for Grace United Methodist Church in Newburgh. ENGLISHTOWN, N.J. -- Shoppers at a flea market perusing packages of food that are dented or out of date. (Photographs by SUZANNE DeCHILLO/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SECOND HARVEST SECOND HARVEST (91%); SECOND HARVEST (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECOND HARVEST SECOND HARVEST (91%); SECOND HARVEST (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SOUP KITCHENS; PHILANTHROPY; WELFARE (US) FOOD CHARITIES (91%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); FOOD MFG (85%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); ANIMAL FOODS (77%); BOTTLED WATER (76%); PET FOODS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); SALES FIGURES (71%); QUALITY CONTROL (65%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C RON TARITAS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



597 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC GROWTH IN LAST PART OF '98 WAS ROBUST 6.1%

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
Wearing the rest of the world's woes as lightly as a silk scarf, the United States economy waltzed merrily into 1999 even faster than previously thought.
The nation's output of goods and services grew at a 6.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of 1998, considerably more rapidly than the 5.6 percent annual rate estimated last month by the Commerce Department. Other than the spring quarter of 1996, when growth also reached 6.1 percent, late 1998 was the most robust three-month period of the 1990's. 
 For the year, the economy grew 3.9 percent, after adjusting for inflation. The total output of goods and services in 1998, at current prices, exceeded $8.5 trillion.
At the same time, inflation dipped to an annual rate of seven-tenths of a percent in the fourth quarter, the lowest since the Soviet Union launched Sputnik more than 40 years ago. For the year, the inflation rate was 1 percent.
All this added up to yet further evidence of the extraordinary turnaround this decade in the largest and what was once thought of as one of the most mature economies in the world. It was a particularly remarkable performance given that the economic expansion that began in early 1991 is completing its eighth year, with no end in sight. If growth continues for another year, the United States economy will achieve its longest uninterrupted advance on record, surpassing the expansion of the 1960's.
"After three years of underestimating the U.S. economy's ability to grow," said Robert Parry, president of the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank, "it wouldn't surprise me to see it exceed expectations for a fourth year."
Joel Naroff, an economist at First Union Bank in Charlotte, N.C., summed it up this way: "We're growing as fast as we can."
The extra year-end production reported by the Commerce Department wound up, not in warehouses, but in the hands of customers. Consumers bought cars and other big-ticket items; home buyers snapped up new construction, and there were signs that foreigners, despite their economic troubles, may have at least temporarily stepped up purchases of American products and services.
Even though the Government scaled back its estimate of business investment a bit, spending by business on new plants and equipment, after running out of steam at midyear, shot ahead at a 20 percent annual rate in the final three months of the year. All in all, final sales -- everything but purchases that were put into inventory -- soared at a 6.5 percent annual rate.
The greater strength in the economy was widely anticipated by investors and failed to spook bondholders, who often fear that a tight labor market and robust growth will lead to higher inflation.
Long-term interest rates had already risen sharply earlier this week on reports of strong housing activity and high consumer confidence. The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, and other members of the Fed's monetary policy committee had added to the anxiety about interest rates by hinting that they had some regrets about their rate cuts last fall.
But yesterday, with no signs of inflation in the report on gross domestic product, the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds fell eight-hundredths of a percentage point, to 5.57 percent. The stock market retreated, however, with the Dow Jones industrial average dropping 59 points, to 9,306.58, and the Nasdaq market index sliding 1.67 percent, to 2,288.03.
To be sure, some of last quarter's strength was exaggerated, which means that the current quarter should be considerably slower. A rash of year-end car buying, which followed the end of last summer's General Motors strike, will not be repeated. Also, the apparent improvement in the nation's trade balance may be an artifact of the imperfect art of seasonal adjustment. For the last half-dozen years, like clockwork, the trade figures have improved in the fourth quarter only to deteriorate in the first.
Lofty prices in the stock market continue to pose the biggest risk to the United States economy. A sustained drop in the market could easily crack confidence and encourage America's big spenders to go on a consumption diet.
Still, the economy's momentum continued to surprise -- and impress -- the experts. With the snapshots this week, many forecasters are once again lifting their estimates for the year. On average, they are now looking for growth of nearly 3 percent in 1999.
As always, though, growth is bound to be uneven. Trade will almost certainly resume its drag on the economy. "The improvement was temporary," said William Dudley, chief economist at Goldman, Sachs. Mexico is being kept aloft by the strong United States economy, but the rest of Latin America is sinking rapidly in the wake of Brazil's devaluation of its currency. South Korea is growing again, and Japan is showing a flicker of life, but the rest of Asia is apt to remain shaky for quite a while. And Europe seems to be slowing down faster than most people expected. The German economy actually shrank slightly in the fourth quarter of 1998.
All this clearly has policy makers in Washington worried. "The leading economies have got a lot of work to do," President Clinton told an audience of political and business leaders in San Francisco yesterday. "We have to do everything we can, not just the United States, but Europe and Japan, to spur economic growth."
Where the capital spending boom is heading is the biggest mystery. Cash flow is no longer what it used to be, and corporate profits have been roughly flat in the last year. All the spending on new plant and equipment means that many companies now have plenty of spare capacity and little need to build more.
Still, corporate America has not quenched its thirst for high-technology gear, and continued investment to overcome the Year 2000 computer bug may keep capital spending moving up this year. And with productivity jumping at a 3.7 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, the payoff seems obvious. "Companies keep spending money on technology because that's where they're getting the competitive edge," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at MerrillLynch.
Home buyers, who drove sales of both new and existing houses right through the roof all last year, may be starting to show a bit of fatigue. With the run-up in interest rates, mortgage applications have started to decline; last week they were at their lowest level in a year. If applications continue to shrink, housing starts could begin to dwindle as early as the spring.
But as long as jobs are plentiful, income gains are healthy and the stock market remains at high levels, American consumers are expected to keep spending. Judging from reports from retailers so far this year, there is no slowdown in sight.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Real Economic Growth" shows annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, from 1994 through 1998. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (66%); FIRST UNION BANK OF CONNECTICUT (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



598 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 
Clinton Condemns China On Human Rights Record
The Clinton Administration issued one of its harshest condemnations of Beijing to date and described some of the most serious human rights violations in a decade, one year after saying China had improved its human rights record. A1 

President Clinton, speaking in San Francisco, defended efforts to cooperate with Mexico to fight drugs, to engage China to promote political freedom, and to threaten force to bring peace to Kosovo. A1
 
Clinton Affirms Anti-Drug Effort
President Clinton certified Mexico and Colombia as fully cooperative allies in fighting illegal drugs, even though the bulk of hard drugs flooding the United States comes from both countries. A6
 
Monitors Detained in Kosovo
International monitors were detained by Serbian security forces at Serbia's southern border with Macedonia, while other monitors were barred from a village where Serbian troops were massing. A6
 
Hong Kong Defers to China
Hong Kong's highest court, giving in to intense political pressure, said it had not meant to challenge the authority of the Chinese Government in a recent ruling on immigration. The statement was criticized by lawyers and democracy advocates. A5
 
Nigeria Prepares for Election
Presidential candidates wound up a week of campaigning that offered the country no clearer picture of ideology or plans to tackle the deep-rooted economic, political and social problems. Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo, remembered for being the only military ruler to give up power voluntarily, showed at every stop that he was the front-runner. Voting is today. A3
 
U.N. Vote to Leave Angola
The Security Council voted to end the peacekeeping operation in Angola, after the renewed outbreak of civil war in December. But the Council left the door open for a new mission if the fighting died down. A3
 
Deadline for Libya on Suspects
The United States and Britain warned that they would seek additional sanctions against Libya unless it surrendered suspects in the 1988 Pan American jet bombing within 30 days, to be tried before a Scottish court in the Netherlands. A3
 
Lawyer for Jailed Rebel Quits
One of two principal lawyers for the imprisoned Kurdish guerrilla leader, Abdullah Ocalan, at left, quit, saying his life was in danger, and Turkish authorities arrested the other lawyer. A7
 
Swift Execution for Palestinian
A firing squad in Gaza executed a police colonel a few hours after he was convicted and sentenced to death for raping a 6-year-old boy, Palestinian officials said. The officer, who had denied the charges, was arrested on Wednesday and tried on Thursday, police officials said. A6
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A8-12, 16
 
At Marine Court-Martial, Pilot Defends His Actions
Capt. Richard J. Ashby, the pilot of the Marine jet that sliced through a ski lift cable in Italy last year, sending 20 people to their deaths, testified at his court-martial on involuntary manslaughter charges. He denied he had been reckless or negligent. A1
 
Safety Bars for New Ford
Ford's newest sport utility vehicle, the tallest and heaviest yet, will be equipped with hollow steel bars below the bumpers to prevent it from riding over cars during collisions. A8
 
Redwoods Plan Is Rejected
Pacific Lumber has rejected a $480 million deal to create a public preserve from ancient California redwood forests, including the Headwaters tract. The plan, the result of years of negotiations, was supported by state and Federal officials. A8
 
Kerry Decides Not to Run
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts said he would not seek the Democratic Presidential nomination. A9
 
Free Tickets Now Allowed
New House ethics rules let representatives accept free tickets to professional basketball and hockey games at the MCI Center in Washington under certain conditions. A9
 
 Public Affairs Program Is Roiled
The PBS program "Washington Week in Review" will temporarily bring back Paul Duke as moderator, to replace Ken Bode, left, who left amid conflict and upheaval over the program's structure and direction. A10
 
Cigar Warning Labels Are Urged
The Surgeon General and other Federal health officials recommended requiring a mandatory national warning label on cigars. A11
 
Criminal Charges for 6 Doctors
Two doctors were charged with involuntary manslaughter and four others were charged with assault and neglect after a two-year investigation into a state-run home for the retarded in Franklin, Pa. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Whitman Names an Ally To State Supreme Court
Governor Whitman nominated Attorney General Peter G. Verniero, 39, left, a longtime political ally, to the New Jersey Supreme Court, to succeed Justice Stewart G. Pollock, who will leave the bench in September. B1
 
Inmate Is Awarded $660,000
David McClary, an inmate convicted of slaying New York City police officer Eddie Byrne a decade ago, was awarded $660,000 for time he spent in solitary confinement. B1
 
Renewed Talk of Moving Yanks
The Yankees' principal owner, George M. Steinbrenner, said his interest in moving the team to New Jersey had been heightened by the merger of the Yankees and Nets. B3
 
Delay of Inquiry Is Sought
Lawyers for three of the four police officers in the shooting death of Amadou Diallo asked a Bronx judge to delay and possibly move the grand jury inquiry, citing an "inflammatory atmosphere." B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B5
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-20
 
SPORTS D1-7
 
OBITUARIES A12-13
Glenn T. Seaborg
The Nobel Prize-winning scientist who led the research that created plutonium was 86. A1
 
Jose Quintero
The director whose reverent stagings of "The Iceman Cometh" and "Long Day's Journey Into Night" led to a worldwide revival of interest in the Nobel Prize plays of Eugene O'Neill was 74. A12
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
U.S. Economy Barrels Along
The nation's output of goods and services grew at a 6.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of 1998, considerably more rapidly than the 5.6 percent annual rate estimated last month by the Commerce Department. For the year, the economy grew 3.9 percent, after adjusting for inflation, which was 1 percent for the year. A1
 
Seeking a Piece of Nasdaq Pie
The New York Stock Exchange said it was pursuing a strategy that would let it trade the stocks of the rival Nasdaq market, where many major technology issues are traded. C1
 
Microsoft's Defense Concludes
Microsoft rested its case in the Government's antitrust suit, but not before the judge shouted angrily at the company's final witness and ordered him to stop talking. C1
 
Pentium III Goes On Sale
Intel's new Pentium III chip began appearing on store shelves in computers priced as low as $1,599. But controversy persisted over its embedded serial numbers. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: The President's missing voice; unjust deportations; assisted suicide, in practice; a Neediest Cases record.
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B19
 
TV Listings B20
 
Crossword B16
 
Weather B18
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); HONG KONG (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ISRAEL (79%); TURKEY (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (61%); MARINE COURT (56%); SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (61%); MARINE COURT (56%); SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); HONG KONG (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ISRAEL (79%); TURKEY (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); LAWYERS (89%); MILITARY OFFENSES (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (88%); MILITARY COURTS (88%); ARRESTS (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); CIVIL WAR (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); SENTENCING (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); BOMBINGS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (60%); SKIING (60%); POLICE FORCES (52%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



599 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: The Rich Deserve Biggest Tax Cut

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Frank Levy and Iris J. Lav (Op-Ed, Feb. 24) correctly explain how tax cuts would go mostly to high-income households. The huge national debt increases this inequality by keeping interest rates higher. If we pay down the debt instead of cutting taxes, it holds interest rates down, reducing mortgage payments and bringing homeowners more disposable income than any tax cut would. 
 What is it about the Republicans and the debt? They created it, and now they are trying to avoid paying it off.
 
DAVE JOHNSON
Redwood City, Calif., Feb. 24, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); NATIONAL DEBT (87%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (85%); MORTGAGE RATES (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DAVE; LEVY, FRANK; LAV, IRIS J IRIS J LAV (70%); FRANK LEVY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999



600 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Signs Indicate the Yankees Will Stay Put in the Bronx

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Only a day after announcing a proposed merger between the Yankees and the Nets, the Yankees' principal owner, George M. Steinbrenner 3d, was once again dragging out a famously unfulfilled threat to move his baseball team to New Jersey.
"Now that we have our new partners from New Jersey," he said through a spokesman, "our interest in going to New Jersey is much stronger." 
 But Mr. Steinbrenner may no longer hold the high card in the 13-year-old poker game over a future home for the team, whether in Lyndhurst, N.J., Manhattan or the Bronx. All signs indicate that the team will remain at its historic home on 161st Street.
Politicians in New Jersey are increasingly growing cool to the idea of wooing the Yankees, and Mr. Steinbrenner's planned new partners, the Nets owners, hope to lure state financing for a new basketball arena in Newark and would not want the Yankees to be lobbying for state money for a new baseball stadium at the same time, politicians and business executives said.
"It essentially means that George will stay in the Bronx," said a New Jersey business executive who has been briefed on the Nets-Yankees alliance and on various plans for the Meadowlands sports complex, where the Nets now play, but intend to leave. "The entire universe has ruled out the West Side of Manhattan, and the Meadowlands doesn't work for the Nets group."
In New York, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has dropped the idea for a billion-dollar stadium on the West Side and, according to a top City Hall official, has begun exploring plans for a new stadium in the Bronx as part of an urban rehabilitation plan. The team's lease at Yankee Stadium, which is owned by the city, expires in 2002.
Gov. George E. Pataki has long favored keeping the Yankees in the Bronx. And for the past four months, Mr. Steinbrenner has held secret talks with Representative Charles B. Rangel and the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development about a new or renovated stadium in the Bronx.
In New Jersey, the Nets are pursuing state support for a new arena in Newark. The arena would be privately financed, but according to the executive who was briefed on the Yankees-Nets merger, the politically connected owners of the Nets would want millions of dollars in transportation improvements from the state. It is unlikely, said the executive, who spoke on condition of anonymity, that the state would also contribute toward a stadium in the Meadowlands or in nearby Lyndhurst.
That view was borne out by political analysts and New Jersey executives who said Gov. Christine Todd Whitman was no longer interested in chasing the Yankees or in building a stadium in the Meadowlands.
"Despite the impending marriage between the Nets and the Yankees," said Peter McDonough, a spokesman for Mrs. Whitman, "the Governor believes that unless and until the Yankees tell her they want to move to New Jersey the team ought to play in the House That Ruth Built, in the Bronx."
Back across the river, Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, said he believed that the pending partnership between the two teams bodes well for the Bronx.
"This merger tells me the Yankees are committed to staying in the Bronx," Mr. Gargano said. "Undoubtedly, they'll want improvements. The Governor and I have always said that we would look to be helpful."
But Howard J. Rubenstein, a spokesman for Mr. Steinbrenner, the Nets and the proposed group, YankeeNets, insisted that the proposed merger with the Nets "certainly makes New Jersey a potential location." He noted that "the Nets ownership has deep roots in that state." The West Side of Manhattan and the Bronx are also options, he said. Mr. Steinbrenner has repeatedly threatened to move out of the Bronx since 1986, citing problems with parking, traffic and crime.
"Steinbrenner has not made up his mind as to which location the Yankees will seek," Mr. Rubenstein said yesterday. "There have been discussions about rebuilding the entire area around the Bronx location and a new stadium. That will be considered by the Yankees as they make their decision."
The Yankees and the Nets recently signed a letter of intent to create YankeeNets, an equal partnership that would work on the sale of tickets, luxury boxes, advertising and cable television rights for both teams. As part of the deal, the Nets group, which is headed by Raymond Chambers and Lewis Katz, would contribute at least $350 million to YankeeNets from outside investors.
The talks between the owners of the two teams began in earnest shortly after Thanksgiving, when Mr. Steinbrenner's negotiations to sell a majority stake in the Yankees to Cablevision broke down. Cablevision's 12-year, $486 million contract to broadcast Yankee games was coming to an end and the company was eager to either buy control of the team or quickly renegotiate a contract. Cablevision has had little contact with Mr. Steinbrenner for about two months, although the company retains a strong interest in renewing the cable contract.
At the same time, Mr. Steinbrenner has had a series of meetings with Mr. Rangel and others concerning a new or rehabilitated stadium in the Bronx, as well as a plan for rehabilitating the neighborhood. Mr. Rangel, in turn, has talked with city and state officials as well as H.U.D.
"There is a unique opportunity to do something big and dramatic in the Bronx because of the desire by the city, the state and Federal representatives like Rangel to do something in the Bronx," said Vincent Tese, who negotiated a short-lived deal with the Yankees in 1987. "Whether it's rehabilitating the stadium or putting up a new one in the park next door, it could be the project of a decade. New Jersey at this point is dead and moving to New Jersey would hurt the value of the franchise." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW JERSEY NETS NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW JERSEY NETS NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FINANCES; BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (90%); BASEBALL (90%); MERGERS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); POLITICS (88%); CITIES (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POKER (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (63%); 

PERSON: STEINBRENNER, GEORGE M 3D; BAGLI, CHARLES V RUDY GIULIANI (54%); CHARLES B RANGEL (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999

 
