

601 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: After 77 Years, Cabaret Laws Face Rewrite 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration is poised to rewrite the city's nearly 80-year-old cabaret laws, which regulate all bars and restaurants where revelers dance. The laws, which were used by the Giuliani administration to punish nightclubs and bars where under-age drinking, drug dealing and other crimes were prevalent, have been a source of controversy for years.
 But there is dissent within the Bloomberg administration about how to change the law. Some in the administration favor a more broad-based license that would be required for all establishments that are open into the early morning hours. Other officials fear such a license would further alienate nightclub and restaurant owners, who have already been hit with an indoor smoking ban and sidewalk cafe legislation this year, a view that is shared by some club owners and nightlife enthusiasts. 
 "We have been told that they won't regulate dancing anymore," said Adam Shore, a co-founder of Legalize Dancing NYC, a group that has been lobbying to eliminate the cabaret laws. But he said he worries that the city will replace the laws with other regulations that also will hurt the nightlife industry.
A public hearing will be held today in Lower Manhattan, where elected officials, nightclub and restaurants owners, and other experts are expected to testify and offer proposed changes to the law. 
It is illegal under current law to operate a cabaret in New York City without a two-year license, which costs $600 to $1,000, based on capacity. Those places that hold a license are closely monitored by various city agencies. Only 332 establishments have the license. 
There seems to be a general agreement that the law, which was promulgated in 1926, needs to go.
"We don't think the city's existing cabaret laws adequately address the problems affecting communities and nightlife establishments," said Gretchen Dykstra, the commissioner of the Department of Consumer Affairs, "but we need to document the range of the problem."
Many bar and restaurants owners have argued that the law is archaic and too punitive, in part because it has resulted in the closing of neighborhood bars without cabaret licenses where patrons have been caught dancing around a jukebox.
Many nightclub owners, tourists and night life enthusiasts have wondered why New York City needs a law for dancing at all, and some have complained that the city uses the law as a tool to shut down clubs.
Community groups and others have argued that while the laws may need changing, the city must maintain some form of regulatory system. Some of those groups fear the proliferation of loud bars and restaurants that disturb neighboring residents. As it stands, one requirement for getting a cabaret license is that a bar or restaurant be in an area zoned for such establishments. 
Some community groups say that dancing is not the problem and that the state should get tougher with places that violate the law by removing their liquor licenses.
"Patrons dancing in and of itself is not what is bothering people," said Anthony Borrelli, the district manager of Community Board 4 in Manhattan. "We are primarily concerned with minimizing disturbances outside nightlife establishments. Enforcement is a big issue for us. If new laws are created that will make enforcement easier, that has potential." 
The laws have also pit establishments that go through the effort, expense and scrutiny that getting a license entails against those bars and restaurants that do not seek a license and permit dancing anyway.
So far this year, the city has padlocked 11 places that featured dancing without a license; between 1999 and 2003, the city closed 20. The Giuliani administration tended to remove or threaten places that held licenses as punishment for a range of violations, from inadequate exits to drug use by patrons. 
Ms. Dykstra has told colleagues she is most intrigued with the idea of a new license that would apply to a broad base of nightlife places -- such as those open after a certain hour.
But some officials say that even if such a law makes it easier for some businesses to offer dancing and live performances, a new regulation could also backfire against the administration, which has taken heat for its tough anti-smoking regulations and for raising a variety of fees around the city to help balance the budget. "I don't know in this economic environment that we need yet another regulation," one city official said. "I don't want to do anything that could be viewed as another impediment to business."
The New York Nightlife Association maintains that, even without the cabaret laws, dance clubs will still be regulated and limited by the zoning laws, building and fire codes, and the Health Department. "Our concern is not so much the eradication of a cabaret law as we are with a vast expansion of regulatory power by the Department of Consumer Affairs," said David Rabin, president of the association. "Nightlife as we see is suffering left and right."
Some club owners are concerned that restaurants that have not had dancing in the past might not have the type of safety systems that many night clubs have.
Ms. Dykstra, who said in an interview that regulating clubs by their hours of operation was "interesting," also insisted that the administration wanted to hear ideas from a plethora of parties before drawing any conclusions. "I am keenly aware that we don't want to over-regulate," she said. "We have to think of it as a matrix: where is the overlap between hours and location and is there anyway we can draw conclusion?"
The Bloomberg administration could put together a bill sometime this year, and submit it to the City Council, which will inevitably hold its own series of hearings before settling on any changes to the law. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (93%); DRINKING PLACES (91%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); SMOKING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); SMOKING BANS (69%); UNDERAGE DRINKING (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



602 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: New Medicare Plan: Who Gains? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The Medicare reform plan that Congress seems poised to enact is not only "bewildering," as noted in "Criticism of Drug Benefit Is Simple: It's Bewildering" (news article, June 22), but also ill structured to improve the health of the elderly and help those in greatest need. 
The "on again, off again" new drug benefit will lead many elderly people to go off chronic medications in the middle of the year when the coverage cuts out. 
 By offering skimpy insurance to everyone, including retirees with good drug benefits from former employers, the proposed drug bills will displace comprehensive employer coverage.
A better alternative for spending $400 billion is to earmark half the money for truly comprehensive prescription coverage to lower-income elderly people. Use the other half to make a down payment on covering working-age people with no health insurance. We could start by providing a subsidy to low-income uninsured workers and those who have lost their jobs.

JACK A. MEYER
President, Economic and
Social Research Institute
Washington, June 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AGING (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); ELDER HEALTH (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); DISMISSALS (68%); LAYOFFS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



603 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Where Blue Collars Grow Endangered; 
Factory Jobs Decline in Sunset Park

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
About 13 years ago, Eligio Abreu was living in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, where he grew up, and attending college in Manhattan. But after his girlfriend got pregnant, he stopped going to school and started working at a cosmetics factory a friend told him about near his home. He has been there ever since.
 "One thing that was good about this company is that you never had to go to the unemployment office," Mr. Abreu said yesterday standing outside the factory. "They were good secure jobs." 
 But all that is about to change. Mr. Abreu, 37, has been making lipstick, eye shadow and mascara for Markwins International, which has already laid off about 200 workers, and plans to let the remaining 200 or so go by the end of the summer when it shuts down in Brooklyn for good. And those workers are far from alone. In March, a candy factory that employed about 150 workers, many of them from the neighborhood, shut down its operations as well, several business officials said.
Sunset Park was one of the last remaining neighborhoods in the city where people could live and have a factory job, but now all of that is threatened, according to business leaders who are trying to keep manufacturing jobs there.
Like other industrial areas throughout the city, Sunset Park had gone into a steep decline when the city hemorrhaged manufacturing jobs -- down from about 1 million in 1960 to a little over 200,000 today, according to experts. But in the 1980's and 90's, the neighborhood came back from the brink, creating a thriving industrial hub, now with a vacancy rate hovering around 5 percent, officials say, by attracting those kinds of small manufacturers who needed and wanted to stay in the city.
"The smokestack industries are gone and what's left are the companies that can survive in New York's high-cost environment," said Adam Friedman, executive director of the New York Industrial Retention Network.
Those are generally companies, like garment and jewelry makers or food processors, he said, that want to be in the city because they need skilled workers to create goods with specialized designs or because their customers are nearby.
But now, because of what labor advocates say is both the shaky economy and the city's emphasis on attracting white-collar jobs and housing development to the waterfront, those jobs are beginning to disappear. The City Council plans to hold an oversight hearing today about how to retain manufacturing companies even as the city moves to reclaim much of its waterfront for residential and other uses.
"The city doesn't do enough for the blue-collar jobs to stay here," said David Yassky, chairman of the Council's Select Committee on Waterfronts. 
One proposal Mr. Yassky is considering, modeled on an approach he said was used in Chelsea, is to impose a fee on those owners converting their properties from manufacturing to residential uses that would help displaced industrial companies relocate. But these days, it is unclear just where those businesses will go. Some of the most densely populated manufacturing areas, like Williamsburg and Greenpoint in Brooklyn, are slated to be rezoned to encourage residential, office, recreational or retail development.
City officials say they are working to keep what industry they can. This summer, the city plans to complete a $30 million renovation of the Brooklyn Army Terminal in Sunset Park, said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation. 
And some say that the issue is not particular plant closings but broadening the idea of what a new business can be. "In that industrial park area you have businesses opening and closing and I think you're always going to have all of that," said William Grinker, president of Seedco, a nonprofit organization, "but the question is, can we get new businesses to come in? It doesn't have to all be high-tech."
For his part, Mr. Grinker has started a program to shuttle workers from the subway to various factories so that they can get to late and overnight shifts. 
In the meantime, many in Sunset Park worry about the effect of the loss of jobs, many of them unionized, on a hard-won local economy. "This is just the first layer of peeling the onion," said Leah Archibald, executive director of the Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation. "If they replace these jobs with jobs that don't have health coverage, then their health needs become a burden on the neighborhood."
Some business owners in Brooklyn suspect that the Bloomberg administration's vision for the future has no place for them. "It's going to be a picture-perfect city that doesn't have people with dirty hands, that doesn't have smelly little factories," said Donald Schoenholt, president of Gillies Coffee Company in Sunset Park. 
"It's a wonderful vision," he said, but added that in order to accomplish that, "they're going to have to take all the last industrial neighborhoods along the waterfront in Brooklyn and they're going to have to dismantle them and put them back together."
Mr. Schoenholt, who said he moved his company to Brooklyn in the early 1990's at the suggestion of city officials, is appealing a fine by the Department of Environmental Protection, which said he created a hazard by running a business that smells like, well, coffee.
Mr. Schoenholt said he had already been asked by officials in New Jersey to relocate there. "The problem for me is that there is no practical way to prevent the coffee business from smelling like coffee," he said.
For many workers, the concerns are more immediate.
Mr. Abreu, who has three daughters to support, plans to avail himself of unemployment benefits while he tries to get his commercial drivers license. Agueda Arias, a union representative at Local 888, said that they had applied to a government program for the workers at Markwins for training and education tohelp them find new jobs. Still, she said, "some of the people are 55 or over and they know that it will be difficult, especially for women."
Like Ana Gutierrez, 65, who expects to be laid off from her job in the lipstick department in about a month. "I thought I was going to end my old age here," she said in a telephone interview last weekend.
She does not expect to receive a pension from the place she has worked for 19 years, and she said she had not saved money, instead spending what she earned to put her son through college. She has heard about another cosmetics company in Long Island City, Queens, that she hopes will take her on, but she has few illusions about her ability to find a new job at her age. "I'll just have to make do with what I have," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Donald Schoenholt, president of Gillies Coffee Company in Sunset Park.; Eligio Abreu, 37, is about to be laid off when Markwins International closes its cosmetics factory in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. (Photographs by Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times) Map of Brooklyn highlights Sunset Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY WORKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COSMETICS (77%); TOILETRIES MFG (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (76%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (72%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (72%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



604 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Calls U.S. Cleaner and Greener Than 30 Years Ago 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JENNIFER 8. LEE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23 

 BODY:
In its first comprehensive analysis of the quality of the environment in the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency said today that the nation's air, water and land were cleaner and better protected than they were 30 years ago but that problems remained with impure waterways, polluted air and the acceleration of suburban sprawl. 
 The report, a draft of which was released for public comment through December, comes in a colorful reader-friendly version in addition to a longer, more technical version. It is a two-year synthesis of information available from some 30 federal agencies, states, tribes and nonprofit organizations that took part. 
 E.P.A. officials emphasized a number of environmental improvements in the report. Air pollution has declined 25 percent over the last three decades even as the nation's population, economy and number of vehicles have grown, the report says. The volume of toxic chemicals released, mostly from industry, appears to have declined 48 percent since 1988. 
But the report also noted that 14 percent of river miles, 28 percent of lake area and 100 percent of the Great Lakes waters are currently under fish consumption advisories because of contaminants like mercury, dioxins and PCB's.
The report said that the pace of land development accelerated in the 1990's even as land conservation efforts increased. The rate of development in the 1990's was approximately 1.5 times the rate in the 1980's, according to the report. As of 1997, 4.3 percent of total land was development, up from 3.2 in 1982.
While the report's discussions of issues involving land use and air and water polution are extensive, the references to the politically charged matter of climate change -- called "global issues" in the draft -- are relatively cursory. This section was heavily edited by the White House, according to documents obtained last week by The New York Times. The edited version released today eliminates references to many studies that conclude that global warming is at least partly caused by human activity, like the rising concentrations of emissions from smokestacks and tailpipes, and that global warming could threaten health and ecosystems.
Agency officials said last week that they had decided to delete the entire discussion on global warming to avoid criticism that they were selectively filtering science to suit administration policy. 
Today, Christie Whitman, the agency's administrator, said at a news conference: "This is not a selective document to make a case for any one particular policy mindset or another. This is, What do we know today about where we are and what should that tell us about going forward?" 
Paul Gilman, the agency's science adviser and head of its office of research and development, said the report tried to focus on national rather than global issues: "We did include some of the global issues and ultimately decided in the case of climate that the debate on climate and the status of climate was something better kept to the Climate Change Research Initiative that is ongoing, that E.P.A. is participating in." The report refers readers to most of the studies. 
The climate change section is now limited to one paragraph, though Dr. Gilman said that in the original version it ran two pages. 
Mrs. Whitman said that the purpose of the report was to set up a baseline for future comparisons. "This is about the state of the environment today, what we know today, in order to inform our decision-making for the future, where to put our resources, where to put our scientific eye," she said. "This isn't about comparing one administration to another." 
Since this report is a draft, it is unclear whether a more complete section on global warming will be included in the final version. By then, the agency should have a new administrator, since Mrs. Whitman is stepping down at the end of this week. But that decision will probably be made by the White House.
Officials in President Bush's Council on Environmental Quality and in the Office of Management and Budget oversaw the draft and made extensive changes. For example, they deleted a reference to a 1999 study showing that global temperatures had risen sharply in the previous decade compared with the last 1,000 years. In its place, administration officials added a reference to a new study, partly financed by the American Petroleum Institute, questioning that conclusion. 
The administration's interference with the draft provided ample fodder for critics today. Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat and presidential contender, issued a statement saying: "If the Bush administration wouldn't even allow the draft report to be released without first omitting important, science-based findings on climate change, I'm at a loss to understand how any of the findings in this report will ever be translated into meaningful action."
But the report also generated its share of praise. 
"This report belies the scare tactics of environmental groups, who sing the constant refrain that, for a variety of reasons, things are getting worse, threatening the nation's health and well-being," read a statement from Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, who has been skeptical of government regulation as the Republican chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. But the report attributes many of the continuing improvements in cleaning air and water to proactive measures taken by the E.P.A. over the decades, like the tightening of regulations on hazardous waste disposal and the banning of lead in gasoline.
A significant part of the report is devoted to examining the links between the environment and health, a major theme that Mrs. Whitman has pushed in her two years in office. It paints a generally positive picture, saying that over the last century, the life span for women has increased to 79.4 years from 51 years and for men to 73.9 from 48.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christie Whitman, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, released her agency's comprehensive report yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (86%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); RIVERS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); SCIENCE POLICY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); SUBURBS (71%); SEAFOOD (66%); POPULATION SIZE (54%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) ENVIRONMENT; WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; AIR POLLUTION; WATER POLLUTION 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WHITMAN, CHRISTIE (ADMR); GILMAN, PAUL; SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



605 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1636 words

PERSON: Maynard Holbrook Jackson Jr. 

HEADLINE: Maynard H. Jackson Jr., First Black Mayor of Atlanta and a Political Force, Dies at 65 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, June 23 

 BODY:
Maynard H. Jackson Jr., who as this city's first black mayor embodied the seismic shift in political power from Atlanta's white establishment to its growing black middle class, died this morning after collapsing at an airport in Washington. He was 65.
 He was resuscitated at Reagan National Airport but suffered a heart attack en route to Virginia Hospital Center in Arlington, where he died about 9 a.m., his physician, Dr. Winston Gandy, said at a news conference here. 
 Mr. Jackson, the great-grandson of slaves who won the first of his three terms as mayor in 1973, oversaw the construction of what would become the nation's busiest international airport, endured a horrifying two-year spree by a serial killer and rising homelessness, and helped win the designation of Atlanta as the host city for the 1996 Olympic Games. 
But it was his fiery advocacy for the new black majority that had elected him -- in particular, by setting up affirmative-action programs for hiring city workers and contractors, and by giving neighborhoods a voice in city planning -- that constituted a political revolution in the heart of the South. Seemingly overnight, it transformed Atlanta into a mecca for talented, aspiring blacks from across the country.
After leaving office for the last time in 1994, he remained influential in Atlanta, where he is said to have handpicked each of his successors, and in the national Democratic Party, where he challenged Terry McAuliffe for the chairman's post in 2001.
Mr. Jackson was a 30-year-old lawyer representing indigent defendants when his first child was born on April 8, 1968, the day that the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was buried. He said the coincidence moved him to think about the "life-death cycle" and enter politics. Two months later he filed to challenge the legendary senator and Georgia kingmaker, Herman Talmadge, in the Democratic Party.
He said later that he had had little hope of winning but thought Mr. Talmadge, a diehard segregationist, ought not to run unopposed. Mr. Jackson ran a grass-roots campaign across the state, attracting support from poor white farmers, and won more than 200,000 votes, carrying the city of Atlanta. The next year, he ran for vice mayor, a largely ceremonial post, and won in a landslide with a third of the white vote and 99 percent of the black vote.
Four years later, he challenged the incumbent mayor, Sam Massell, a progressive who was the city's first Jewish mayor, and won a 47 percent plurality in a field of 11 candidates. Their two-week runoff campaign degenerated into bitter racial acrimony when Mr. Massell adopted as his campaign slogan, "Atlanta's Too Young to Die," playing to white voters' fears.
On Oct. 16, 1973, Mr. Jackson handily won the runoff with 59 percent of the vote, becoming the first black mayor of a major city in the South, the same year that Tom Bradley and Coleman Young won the mayoralties of Los Angeles and Detroit respectively.
Mr. Jackson had campaigned against police brutality and for equity in hiring practices, and his first two terms revolved around themes of crime and racial preferences. He fired the police chief, John Inman, who was seen as racist and ineffective at reducing crime, but the chief fought his dismissal all the way to the state's highest court before settling for a demotion.
Despite statistics showing a falling crime rate, though, the city was terrorized from 1979 to 1981 by the murders of 24 children and 6 adults. Wayne Williams, implicated in 24 of the slayings, was tried and convicted of two of them in 1982.
Mr. Jackson's greatest legacy was in affirmative action programs that set the standard for American cities, especially those with black majorities, though his advocacy for those programs also helped set a tone of confrontationalism with the white business establishment that left scars on both sides.
"Maynard Jackson was not a gradualist," said Gary Pomerantz, author of "Where Peachtree Meets Sweet Auburn" (Scribner, 1996), a history of white and black Atlanta told largely through the story of Mr. Jackson's family. "He believed in change coming right now, if not sooner."
As he took office, the old railroad town was becoming the air-travel crossroads of the South, Atlanta's airport was expanding to meet the needs of a major hub, and Mr. Jackson demanded that black workers and contractors receive their fair share of the business building and operating its new terminals at Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport.
"That was just the red flag for so many of the business leaders who were barely able to come to terms with fact of African-Americans having political power, and now having the prospect of intruding on the economic area was enough to drive them ballistic," said Michael L. Lomax, who was a speechwriter for Mr. Jackson in the 1970's and is now president of Dillard University in New Orleans.
Mr. Lomax said white Atlanta fought tooth-and-nail before ceding power to the upstart new mayor. "The reality was, Maynard made it more confrontational because of his own approach: he was not a diplomat, not a mediator, he was a lawyer, and he was either the advocate for something or the adversary."
Mr. Jackson often boasted that the airport was built ahead of time and under budget, even as the city contracts granted to minorities duly soared from less than 1 percent in 1973 to nearly 39 percent within five years. He also boasted that Atlanta gained dozens of new black millionaires, many thanks to joint ventures of minority-owned and white-owned companies at the airport.
"In many ways, Maynard's the architect of modern Atlanta," Mr. Lomax said. "The city just opened up in ways that were unimaginable. 
"When Maynard got elected," Mr. Lomax added, "and started a revolution at City Hall, that's what gave black people a piece of the pie and put that city on the map for every young black person in America who had ambitions of doing something spectacular with his or her life."
Mr. Jackson's required exit from office after his second term underscored his contentious relationship with Atlanta's business community: no local law firm offered him a job. Instead, he set up a local office as a bond lawyer for a Chicago firm, gaining experience in municipal finance that would later help make him a millionaire. In 1989, after Andrew Young's second term as mayor, Mr. Jackson reclaimed City Hall with 79 percent of the vote.
Invariably described as larger-than-life, Mr. Jackson stood nearly six feet three inches and weighed as much as 300 pounds. He easily filled a room, even before he let loose his booming, deep voice and soaring oratory. But he was plagued by health problems related to his obesity, including diabetes. He was a fixture eating fried chicken at Paschal's, the landmark soul-food restaurant here and was known to devour a half-gallon of ice cream in a single sitting, said Bob Holmes, a friend and director of the Southern Center for Studies in Public Policy at Clark Atlanta University.
In 1992 he underwent bypass surgery to clear six arterial blockages. The following year, after an administration marred by contracting and bribery scandals at the airport, he said he would not seek a fourth term.
Maynard Holbrook Jackson Jr. was born March 23, 1938, in Dallas, the third of six children of Maynard Sr., a prominent local minister, and Irene Dobbs Jackson. The family moved seven years later to Atlanta, where his paternal great-great-grandfather had bought his own freedom and founded the Wheat Street Baptist Church, and where his maternal grandfather, John Wesley Dobbs, himself the son of slaves, became Atlanta's leading black power broker and earned the unofficial title of mayor of Sweet Auburn, the street at the center of black business and cultural life.
Mr. Jackson graduated from Morehouse College in 1956, but flunked out of Boston University's law school before graduating from that of North Carolina Central University in Durham in 1964. He returned to Atlanta, worked for the National Labor Relations Board and later headed the Emory Community Legal Services Center.
Mr. Jackson divorced his first wife, Bunnie Jackson-Ransom, in 1976, and a year later married Valerie Jackson, who is the host of "Between the Lines," a local public radio show, and with whom he lived in the Buckhead section of Atlanta. Besides them, he is survived by a daughter with Ms. Jackson-Ransom, Brooke Edmond, 35, and Ms. Jackson's daughter from a previous marriage, Beth Hodges, 43, whom he adopted, both of Washington; their son Maynard Holbrook Jackson III, 31, of Atlanta; two children with Valerie Jackson, Valerie-Amanda, 23, and Alexandra, 18; and three grandchildren.
After leaving office in 1994, Mr. Jackson formed a municipal underwriting firm, which has earned millions of dollars in fees from Atlanta and Georgia state government entities and has participated in bond issues in Chicago, Los Angeles, Memphis, New York, Oakland and Philadelphia. 
He stayed active in the Democratic party as an endorser and advocate for grass-roots politicking. After losing the chairmanship to Mr. McAuliffe in 2001, he was named the party's national development chairman.
Mr. Pomerantz, the author, said Mr. Jackson had a keen sense of his own history, and recalled taking Mr. Jackson to see the slave graveyard where his great-great-grandparents were buried.
"When he saw those two graves, and he'd never seen them before, he just sort of gasped, held his hand over his mouth, then he reached over to touch the tombstone," Mr. Pomerantz said. "But he pulled his hand back before he touched it as if it were aflame. Then he reached out and touched it with one hand. And then he held it firmly with both hands, almost merging with it -- standing there, in the shade of these dogwood trees that had literally grown from his slave ancestors."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maynard Jackson, above being sworn in as Atlanta mayor in 1973 and at right winning the bid in 1990 for Atlanta to be host of the Olympics. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); POLITICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CITIES (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); OLYMPICS (73%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); MURDER (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (69%); HOMICIDE (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); LAWYERS (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BLACKS 

JACKSON, MAYNARD H JR; HALBFINGER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) ATLANTA (GA)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



606 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Wimbledon Boycott? It Can't Happen Here

BYLINE:  By GEORGE VECSEY

DATELINE: WIMBLEDON, England 

 BODY:
IF Ivo Karlovic had beaten Lleyton Hewitt somewhere out in the ozone during the endless, borderless tennis season, it might have merited a grunt of interest from the casual fan catching the score in the sports briefs.
 Because it happened yesterday amid the grass and concrete and $3.32 containers of strawberries and cream at London SW19, it became one of the greatest upsets in Wimbledon history -- a defending men's champion whacked in the first round. 
 It had not happened since 1967, when tennis was not yet truly professional. 
 Location, location, location. Wimbledon is the center of the tennis universe, bolstered by its three Grand Slam companions, in Australia, France and the United States. Everything else is a road game. 
 Now there is talk -- preliminary, logical, nonthreatening talk -- of the men's stars' withholding their services from Wimbledon because they want a bigger share of the profits. 
 It happened 30 years ago, when, because of tennis politics, most of the men took a holiday in late June. Jan Kodes beat Alex Metreveli in the final. Attendance did not suffer.
 Could there be another boycott? "I'd find it very hard to believe," Hewitt said during his news conference after his crushing defeat, 1-6, 7-6 (5), 6-3, 6-4, to Karlovic, a tall and relatively unknown Croatian. 
 Hewitt was being bluntly realistic. 
 The dark-green-and-purple aura of Wimbledon spreads outward, imparting glamour to the bleary-eyed vagabonds who stumble onto the court in Stuttgart or Kuala Lumpur, sometimes not sure whether they are in one or the other.
 The players know exactly where they are when they arrive at this leafy London suburb. So do the fans, 38,500 of them yesterday, some who camped out along Church Road the evening before. 
 They jammed into the narrow walkways to watch matches on the side courts, while 13,800 with tickets to Center Court waited to see what would transpire during the show matches. 
 Yesterday they savored the upset by the 6-foot-10 Karlovic over Hewitt, the spindly Australian champion, mostly because it happened at Wimbledon. Tennis is different from other sports, which hold floating championships. The N.B.A.'s recent finals were in San Antonio and New Jersey. The Super Bowl moves around every year. 
 But the four Grand Slam tennis championships return to the same surfaces each season. 
 Now the men's tennis players say -- and the women agree with them, in principle -- that not enough money from the four Grand Slam tournaments goes to the players. 
 Around 10 percent of the money generated at the French Open, Wimbledon and the United States Open goes to the players, while the Australian Open, with different economic circumstances, gives 25 percent to the purses.
 The four major team sports in the United States pay about 50 percent or more of their revenue to the players.
 The men's players "believe that the Grand Slams' support for professional tennis is not equitable given their enormous commercial success," Mark Miles, the chief executive of the ATP, said in a statement. 
 Miles said the men had "decided to move along two parallel tracks," one of which was a "dialogue" with the Grand Slams. But they were also "prepared for all contingencies and are proceeding to develop alternatives," he said.
 The men did not mention Wimbledon specifically during a mass meeting on Saturday, but they have suggested that they could hold a charity tournament at some other site during a Grand Slam event. 
 This is sound union posturing -- but lots of luck. As long as the All England Club keeps its prices and its collective nose high in the air, Wimbledon will endure. 
 In fact, Wimbledon could probably match up Gianni Clerici, the impish tennis correspondent for the Italian daily La Repubblica, who actually played singles here in 1953 and 1954, against Bud Collins, the gaudily attired icon of American tennis journalism, on Center Court, and the fans might show up, providing the top women were competing in the same tournament.
 The women are not sending out the same message. Not right now. 
 Instead, they have come up with a new slogan, "Get in Touch With Your Feminine Side," featuring ferocious images of Serena Williams and Jennifer Capriati, among others. 
 "Collective bargaining is important in sports," said Larry Scott, the new head of the WTA, who previously worked for the men's tour. 
 Scott agrees with the numbers being put out by the men, but he says it is important for the women to capitalize on interest in Serena and Venus Williams and other stars.
 In his first 60 days on the job, Scott has urged his players to hark back to the pioneer days of Billie Jean King. 
 Not only have Capriati and Serena Williams made an appearance together, but Lindsay Davenport and Venus Williams are also conferring about assuming bigger leadership roles. 
 Meanwhile, Wimbledon rolls on. Serena plays today. So does Andre Agassi. So does Tim Henman. So does Capriati. 
 Something will happen, and it will seem important, mainly because it is happening at Wimbledon.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Venus Williams serving in her first-round victory yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); BOYCOTTS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: VENUS WILLIAMS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (90%); ENGLAND (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



607 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: After a Year Campaigning, Dean Officially Enters Race 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt., June 23 

 BODY:
Howard Dean offered a new reason for his presidential campaign today, declaring that a year of campaigning had convinced him "our nation is in crisis" because of a White House that he said was in the grip of big-money contributors and conservative ideologues.
 In a rally billed as the official announcement speech for a campaign that has been going full-blast for nearly 12 months, Dr. Dean moved sharply away from the issues that had catapulted him to early prominence: his opposition to the Iraq war and, to a lesser extent, his advocacy for universal health care. 
 Instead, he presented himself as an advocate for people alienated from government and politics, whose well-being was jeopardized by President Bush's domestic and international policies. 
Although Dr. Dean criticized what he described as the Bush administration's unilateral foreign policy, he did not mention Iraq once in the course of his 26-minute speech.
"Today, our nation is in crisis," Dr. Dean said. "The crisis manifests itself in the president's destruction of the ideal of community. The president pushes forward an agenda and policies which divide us. He advocates economic policies which beggar the middle class and raise property taxes so that income taxes may be cut for those who ran Enron."
"How is it that our leaders have forgotten and abandoned our communities and repudiated our idealism and principles?' " said Dr. Dean, a former governor of Vermont. "When confronted with the president's ideologues, too many Americans have stopped participating, stopped voting and stopped believing that they can change America."
With his speech today, Dr. Dean became the fourth Democrat to engage in what has become a formalized if unsurprising ritual of announcing for president. Another five have said they are running but have yet to make an official speech. 
Dr. Dean, 54, set out to make the most of this opportunity, with an elaborately choreographed rally and speech that was designed to address what has become one of his most pressing problems: how to retool his candidacy now that the war in Iraq has concluded with, in the view of most Americans, success.
Dr. Dean drew repeated cheers as he outlined why and how he had changed the reasons why he was running for president. He said the evolution was not a result of any external factors -- like the successful resolution of a war he had opposed -- but to what he had heard during a year of almost nonstop campaigning that has been far more intense than any of his rivals. 
Dr. Dean said he had entered the campaign intending to run on issues like universal health care, repairing the economy and chastising fellow-Democrats for, he said, abandoning Democratic principles in their chase for the White House.
But, he said, "something changed along the way as I listened to Americans around the country."
"From New Hampshire to Texas, I met Americans doubting the words our leaders and our government in Washington," he said. "Everywhere I go, people are asking fundamental questions: Who can we trust? Is the media reporting the truth? What happened to our country."
"The long journey of a presidential campaign has begun with the people I have met affecting me far more than any effect I might have had on them," Dr.Dean said to the notably young crowd that overflowed a downtown intersection here that provided a quaint New England backdrop, complete with a church steeple over his left shoulder. "And because of that, the reasons why I seek the presidency have changed."
By any measure, Dr. Dean became the latest in a long line of candidates, including the current and previous residents of the White House, to run as an anti-Washington candidate. At times today, he sounded almost like Ross Perot, who ran for president as an independent in 1992. Dr. Dean, who served 11 years as governor of Vermont, said the political system had systematically alienated people from participating in their government.
"We in politics have not given our people a reason to vote or a reason to participate," he said. "We have slavishly spewed sound bites, copying each other while saying very little. We raise millions of dollars and each year make lofty promises, while every year the struggle of ordinary Americans increases and fewer Americans vote."
Beyond offering a new rationale for his candidacy, the speech today seemed intended to lift Dr. Dean into a new phase of his campaign: from the scrappy maverick into a serious, if not quite establishment, candidate who is viewed in the top tier of this crowded field. For all his previous efforts to present himself as a renegade candidate running against the system, Dr. Dean's speech had the trappings of a mainstream announcement -- from the laminated credentials describing today's event as "the great American restoration" to the use of a song by the band U2 to pump up the crowd.
And Dr. Dean's aides suggested that the candidate would be in the upper tier of candidates when it comes to fund-raising when the next round of reports are released in July.
Until now, Dr. Dean has enjoyed the benefits that come with being a guerrilla candidate: earning much attention with what he has described as his straight-talking ways, without the critical attention that has been focused on some of the other candidates. There have been indications, as Dr. Dean has sought to push his candidacy forward, that his transformation into a more mainstream candidate may not be that easy.
An appearance on "Meet the Press" by Dr. Dean on Sunday, arranged by his aides as part of this announcement swing, turned into what even some Dean supporters described today as something of a debacle, highlighting many areas of attacks Dr. Dean would be subject to in a general election or a primary.
In the course of the interview with the host, Tim Russert, Dr. Dean called for raising the Social Security retirement age and cutting the increase in spending on Medicare, two positions that Democrats in rival camps said today that they would surely use against him, particularly with the elderly. Dr. Dean also acknowledged that he had changed his position on the death penalty -- he now supports it in some cases, after once having been a strong opponent -- and was an opponent of many forms of federal gun control.
Dr. Dean did not mention any of those subjects in his speech today. For the most part, he also did not mention other Democrats, even though he has shown no reluctance to attack his opponents. Instead, he focused his attention on Mr. Bush.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, pointed to supporters in a crowd yesterday in Burlington, Vt., as he formally announced his candidacy for president. Americans no longer trust their leaders, he said. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); TERRORISM (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); PROPERTY TAX (65%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; UNITEDSTATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; DEAN, HOWARD (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (91%) VERMONT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ; BURLINGTON (VT)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



608 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: The Fed's Next Move 

 BODY:
Depending on when investors anted up, the recent rally on Wall Street could look like a bull market or the proverbial dead-cat bounce -- the rule that anything will find a market if the price drops low enough. Timing really is everything.
 And yet, with the stock market up more than 20 percent since March, there does appear to be something different about this rebound. For once, Wall Street's optimism seems rooted in economic fundamentals. Consumer confidence, the housing sector and corporate profits are healthy, and demand for manufactured goods is picking up. 
 Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, argued earlier this year that uncertainty over Iraq was the one obstacle standing in the way of recovery. Now, although the unemployment rate continues to hover around 6 percent, making this so far a "jobless recovery," Mr. Greenspan is looking more and more prescient. 
Certainly the Fed's aggressive interest-rate slashing in the last three years -- its federal funds rate stands at 1.25 percent, down from 6.5 percent -- has provided a great deal of stimulus to the economy, as waves of mortgage refinancings have shown. The dilemma this week for Mr. Greenspan and the other members of the Fed's Open Market Committee is whether to cut interest rates further. Because it had warned that a Japanese-style deflationary spiral -- in which falling prices trigger paralysis -- is a bigger threat than a spike in inflation, the Fed led markets to believe that it would again cut rates when it ends its meeting tomorrow.
Deflation would be lethal, but it is a remote threat. Cutting rates again as a form of immunization is risky, given that short-term rates are already perilously close to zero. Getting much closer could wreak havoc on money market accounts and other financial instruments, and leave the Fed with little gunpowder in its arsenal.
The most recent economic data argue against a deflationary scenario. The Fed deliberations this week will likely focus on whether to heed these latest signals, or deliver on market expectations for a cut. This might be a time for Mr. Greenspan to stand pat, even if it means disappointing stock traders for a day or two. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFLATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (56%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (51%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



609 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Apple Announces Chip Deal and Other Moves to Lift PC's

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 23 

 BODY:
Steven Jobs, chief executive of Apple Computer, unveiled a new alliance with I.B.M. today that will install a powerful I.B.M.-designed 64-bit microprocessor chip on Apple computers. The move is a bid to stay innovative and independent in a computing world dominated by Microsoft and Intel.
 The introduction of the new G5 chip, industry analysts said, is crucial to keeping Apple competitive with the ubiquitous Intel Pentium-based personal computers and to jump-start sales of Apple's Macintosh personal computers, which have been relatively flat the last two years. 
 The processor, Mr. Jobs noted today, is also the foundation for the company's software developments that will be based on a new version of its OS X operating system -- called Panther -- that Apple plans to begin selling for $129 before the end of the year. 
The announcements were made at the opening day of Apple's annual software developer conference. Mr. Jobs, who makes his presentations seated on stage in front of a computer keyboard, which he plays like a concert pianist, received repeated ovations and on one occasion a gasp from his audience of 3,800 Macintosh software developers when he showed a clever way to find documents on a cluttered computer screen. 
The presentation included a video instant-messaging conversation by Mr. Jobs and one of his executives based in Paris, who was seated with a clear view of the Eiffel Tower. His presentation also included a cameo video appearance by one Apple board member, former Vice President Al Gore.
Throughout his demonstrations of hardware and software products, Mr. Jobs did not stray from the theme that Apple remained an innovator and was moving forward faster than its PC industry competitors were.
"What does the competitive landscape look like out there?" he asked. "Our competition was going to be out there in 2004, they've slipped until 2005, and some people tell us it will actually be in 2006," he said, referring to a new version of Microsoft's Windows operating system, code-named Longhorn, that has been delayed.
At a variety of recent public forums, Mr. Jobs has been making the case that Apple is leading the PC industry in innovation. That appears to be justified, analysts said, both in new markets like the recent iTunes music service, which permits consumers to buy songs for 99 cents and in more basic technology areas like the Macintosh imaging technology Quartz. Microsoft is now planning a similar technology for the Longhorn version of its operating system.
"They can charge a premium for really great stuff," said Roger Kay, director of client computing at the International Data Corporation. "Everyone admits that, even the Windows people."
The challenge for Mr. Jobs, he said, is that even while Apple has had success in some areas, overall worldwide market share for Apple computers has continued to "flutter down."
Even Apple's strongest businesses, like the home computer market in the United States, where it now has a 3.4 percent market share down from more than twice that percentage in the mid-1990's, are weak, Mr. Kay said.
"Given everything they've done, he still hasn't expanded his installed base," said Andrew J. Neff, a financial analyst at Bear, Stearns in New York, referring to Mr. Jobs and the percentage of Apple users. "He's done very well, and he will probably create a strong wave of replacement purchases, but the realities of the industry raise questions about whether he can spur a permanent shift in market share."
Mr. Jobs insists that Apple has been able roughly to double its consumer market share the last year and argues that it has in part been held back by economic downturns in the publishing and advertising markets, where it has traditionally been strong, as well as by missteps it made in the education market.
He said that with just a little bit of help from the economy, as well as increased demand for desktop replacement machines, Apple will perform well when the new computers based on the G5 chip begin selling. 
Today, Apple said that it would begin shipping its first three new models in August, with processors ranging from a single 1.6-gigahertz priced at $1,999 to a 2-gigahertz dual processor system priced at $2,999.
Apple is betting that it will be able to outflank Intel and Microsoft-based PC's by moving quickly to 64-bit processing for mainstream personal computer users. Mr. Jobs said that the new processor would allow personal computer users to have access to more than four gigabytes of memory -- which is the limit for today's 32-bit processors. That expansion, he said, will make the personal computer market grow again.
"You can write new kinds of applications you couldn't write before," he said. In his presentation Mr. Jobs showed demonstrations, including Adobe's Photoshop and Mathematica, a sophisticated mathematics equation solver from Wolfram Research that greatly benefited from the 64-bit processing power of the new G5.
Mr. Jobs acknowledged that the new chip still trailed Intel's Pentium in certain processing tasks, but he said that it had surpassed the Pentium for math-intensive operations. In dual-processor applications the new Apple systems are more than twice as fast as a comparable system from Dell Computer.
Mr. Jobs refused to comment on Apple's relationship with Motorola, which has made Apple's microprocessors until now. He acknowledged that the I.B.M. announcement should end speculation about whether Apple would adopt the Pentium chip. Apple said today that a three-gigahertz version of the G5 chip would be available within 12 months.
Mr. Jobs said, meanwhile, that Apple had sold more than a million iPod portable music players and more than five million songs through its iTunes music store.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven Jobs's presentation on new products was seen via satellite at a store on Prince Street in Manhattan. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); Apple Computer showed its new Power Mac G5 PC in San Francisco yesterday. The computer uses a 64-bit I.B.M. microprocessor chip. (Reuters) Chart: "Polishing Its System"Apple announced yesterday that its OS X operating system had over seven million users and previewed the newest version of the software. But Apple's share of the operating-system market is still overshadowed by Microsoft's. EVENT: JANUARY 2000 -- OS X unveiled.SOME FEATURES of OS X:UNIX-based foundation called Darwin.Aqua interface featuring desktop organization system called Dock.Quartz graphics system for image and text display. MARCH 01 -- Shipments of OS X begin. EVENT: SEPTEMBER 2001 -- The first major update, version 10.1, is offered.SOME FEATURES of OS X version 10.1:System is faster in many ways, including starting up applications, retrieving menus, resizing windows and copying files.Dock can be moved around screen. EVENT: AUGUST 2002 -- The next update, called Jaguar or 10.2, is sold.SOME FEATURES of OS X version 10.2 Jaguar:"Smart" junk e-mail filter that studies contents of messages as it is used.iChat, an instant-messaging application.Systemwide address book. EVENT: YESTERDAY -- 10.3 version, called Panther, is previewed.SOME FEATURES of OS X version 10.3 Panther:Redesigned Finder.Window-viewing system called Expose.iChat AV, an audio/video-conferencing application. WORLDWIDE PC OPERATING SYSTEM SHIPMENTS, 2002*Microsoft 94.6%Apple 2.6%Linux 2.3%Other: 0.4% *Does not add to 100 because of rounding. (Sources: Apple Computer; Guernsey Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (88%); MUSIC (87%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (74%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); INSTANT MESSAGING (65%); MARKET SHARE (63%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; SALES 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); INTEL CORP (91%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (60%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: APPLE COMPUTER INC; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; INTEL CORP 

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); INTC (NASDAQ) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (91%); AL GORE (50%) MARKOFF, JOHN; JOBS, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



610 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Meeting Bush May Lift Pakistani Leader's Prestige 

BYLINE:  By CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, June 23 

 BODY:
Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, is to receive a rare honor on Tuesday, meeting President Bush at Camp David, a first for any leader from South Asia.
 The meeting will serve as welcome support to General Musharraf, who seized power in a military coup in 1999 and is under growing attack from his political opposition. 
 Government officials and political analysts said the gesture would deliver a strong message to Pakistanis back home and to other countries in the region. "It is in recognition of our close alliance post-9/11 and because we have been allies for a very long time," said Muhammad Masood Khan, the chief spokesman for the Foreign Ministry. 
The Pakistani president, embattled in Parliament and uncertain how to detail with Islamic radicalism in the northwest of the country, seems to need whatever political support he can find.
"While the U.S.A. is fighting a supposed war against terror, Musharraf is fighting a war to stay in power," a columnist, A. H. Amin, wrote today in the daily newspaper The Nation.
As a nuclear power locked in a tense confrontation with India over the disputed territory of Kashmir and home to a population of 140 million Muslims, Pakistan demands close American attention.
The country has arrested and handed over to America nearly 500 terrorism suspects since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, but as a flurry of arrests ahead of the president's visit to the United States shows, many more militants remain at large. 
In the last week, the police arrested two men in Peshawar and five more today in the central town of Multan, all of them suspected of being members of Islamic militant groups.
In recent interviews General Musharraf has said that Osama bin Laden is probably still alive and hiding either in Pakistan's tribal areas close to the Afghan border or inside Afghanistan.
Taliban leaders and the renegade Afghan guerrilla leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, who have declared a holy war against American troops in Afghanistan, are widely rumored to be living in Pakistan's tribal areas.
At Camp David, General Musharraf will certainly be pressed to stop incursions from Pakistan into Afghanistan and to move against the resurgent Taliban and other opponents of the American presence in Afghanistan who are operating from this country, said Samina Ahmed, director of the International Crisis Group in Pakistan.
But domestic politics may make any tough move against militants on the border difficult. In North-West Frontier Province on the Afghan border, the national alliance of six Islamist parties, the Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal, runs the local government. It has alarmed and embarrassed Islamabad by introducing measures including a bill to enact the Islamic legal code.
General Musharraf has made a point of rejecting any drift toward Taliban-like rulers. 
"Do we need a Talibanized Pakistan?" he asked a gathering at the Lahore Bar Association this month. "Do we need the Taliban's Islam? We need a progressive and dynamic Pakistan."
But he has hesitated to strike at the roots of the mullahs' power and may have opened the way to their electoral success last fall, an editorial in The Friday Times, a liberal weekly, suggested last week.
"The longer General Musharraf prevaricates, the greater his personal and the country's problems," the paper said. "It is time for him to resolve the contradictions in his approach and steer the country unequivocally in the direction of the progressive Pakistan he constantly talks about."
But real change is difficult, because the general's domestic position is fragile. He rules Pakistan both as president and as chief of staff of the powerful military establishment, and he orchestrated a referendum in April of last year to give himself a new five-year term.
Under pressure to start a transition to democracy, he allowed parliamentary elections last November and now is locked in argument with opposition parties over his own legitimacy, his dual role and constitutional amendments that he has tried to push through.
The ruling party, the Pakistan Muslim League-Quaid, which is loyal to General Musharraf, canbarely hold its coalition government together. It has failed in the last seven months to negotiate support in Parliament for the proposed amendments.
A vote on a no-confidence motion has been scheduled for Saturday after the speaker of Parliament, a Musharraf loyalist, declared his support for the amendments, compounding the sense of constitutional crisis.
General Musharraf came close to dissolving Parliament, diplomats and analysts said, and rumors are circulating that he may still do so on his return from Washington.
The Bush administration appears likely to push only gently in the direction of greater democracy. American policy has been to encourage more democratization without laying down the law or, as one American diplomat put it, "without getting into the weeds."
The Pakistani president is expected to receive strong economic support, including agreements on tariffs and investment and cooperation in science and technology.
The United States wrote off $1 billion of Pakistani debt a few months ago and is expected to approve a package of cash, loans and grants to reduce the burden of the remaining debt of $1.8 billion.
The Bush administration is expected to warn General Musharraf against further exchanges of nuclear technology with North Korea, said Ms. Ahmed, of the International Crisis Group. Pakistan's relations with India will also be a major topic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gen. Pervez Musharraf is to visit President Bush at Camp David. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); TALIBAN (89%); ARRESTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); WAR ON TERROR (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); COUPS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); AL-QAEDA (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); WRITERS (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%) MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GALL, CARLOTTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%) PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



611 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

U.S. Fought Syrians In Strike on Iraqi Convoy
During an American attack on Wednesday on a convoy suspected of carrying fugitive Iraqi officials near the Syrian border, United States Special Operations forces engaged in a firefight with several Syrian guards, wounding five of them, Defense Department officials said. A1

The American and British occupation authority said that within three years it would create a new Iraqi army that would be one-tenth the size of Saddam Hussein's armed forces at their peak. It also agreed to indefinitely pay the salaries of idled Iraqi soldiers. A13

India and China Improve Ties
India and China signed a series of agreements that could warm the often chilly relations between the world's two most populous countries, and India's prime minister proclaimed that a long era of mutual suspicion was ending. Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee of India and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China signed a joint statement they described as a road map to improving relations. A3

Hamas Cease-Fire Predicted
Palestinian officials predicted that the militant group Hamas would soon agree to halt violence against Israel temporarily, acceding to a request from the Palestinian prime minister and to international pressure. A12

Peru's Cabinet to Resign
The prime minister of Peru, Luis Solari, said that he and the rest of the cabinet would resign, a shake-up intended to shore up a government buffeted by protests and widespread discontent. A3

Charges Planned in Kenya Blast
Four people will be charged with murder this week in the terrorist attacks last November at a resort in Kenya, which killed three Israeli tourists and 11 Kenyans, governmentofficials said. A15

NATIONAL A16-27

Supreme Court Endorses Campus Affirmative Action
The Supreme Court preserved affirmative action in university admissions by a one-vote margin but with a forceful endorsement of the role of racial diversity on campus in achieving a more equal society. A1

Several officials from conservative groups said they would demand that President Bush choose someone whose opposition to affirmative action is crystal clear when there is a vacancy on the court. A1

As university presidents and administrators studied the decisions, many said the rulings afforded them more discretion than expected, though somewhat less than they had hoped for. A26

Justices Uphold Library Rules
The Supreme Court upheld a federal law that requires public libraries to install antipornography filters on all computers providing Internet access as a condition of continuing to receive federal subsidies. A1

Millions Raised for Re-election
President Bush collected $4 million at a fund-raiser in midtown Manhattan and Vice President Dick Cheney raised more than $1.6 million at events in two states. A18

Dean Justifies Election Bid
Howard Dean declared that a year of campaigning had convinced him "our nation is in crisis" because of a White House that he said was in the grip of big-money contributors and conservative ideologues. A22

E.P.A. Finds Improvement
The Environmental Protection Agency said the nation's air, water and land were cleaner and better protected than they were 30 years ago but that problems associated with suburban sprawl remained. A28

NASA Says Fleet Will Be Ready
NASA has apparently concluded that no enormously time-consuming changes will be required before the shuttle fleet returns to space. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Foster Care Review Accepted by New Jersey
New Jersey has agreed to a sweeping settlement of a lawsuit that challenged the quality of its foster care system, people involved in the settlement discussions said. A1

Shelter Lawsuit Dismissed
A New York State judge has dismissed the main part of a lawsuit filed by the state attorney general that had sought $12 million from the former operators of a Brooklyn adult home to compensate hundreds of mentally ill residents who had long endured filthy conditions and little if any supervision. B1

Cabaret Laws Face Rewrite
The Bloomberg administration is poised to rewrite the city's nearly 80-year-old cabaret laws, which regulate all bars and restaurants. The laws, which were used by the Giuliani administration to punish nightclubs and bars where underage drinking and other crimes were prevalent, have been a source of controversy for years. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B7

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES A28-29

SPORTS D1-7

Hewitt Ousted by Qualifier
Lleyton Hewitt, the defending Champion and No. 1 seed, was defeated by qualifier Ivo Karlovic, 1-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3, 6-4, in the first round at Wimbledon. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Fed Poised for Rate Cut
The Federal Reserve seems ready to cut interest rates tomorrow. Economists are divided over whether the cut will be one-half or one-quarter of a percentage point. C1

Biotech Companies to Merge
Biogen and Idec Pharmaceuticals announced a merger that appears to be an effort to cut costs and broaden product pipelines. C1

New Standards for Tires
The government laid out a major overhaul of tire performance rules. C1

Drop in Profits at Tenet
Tenet Healthcare, the hospital chain under scrutiny for its Medicare billing practices, told investors to expect significantly lower profits this year. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL 30-31

Editorials: A win for affirmative action; the Fed's next move; time to re-engineer the corps; checkmating Alzheimer's.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E6
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E7
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HAMAS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); APPEALS (68%); FUNDRAISING (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (67%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (64%); CONSERVATISM (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (62%); LIBRARIES (60%); PORNOGRAPHY (60%); MURDER (58%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); WEN JIABAO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); SYRIA (95%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); KENYA (93%); PERU (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



612 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: THE SUPREME COURT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; 
JUSTICES BACK AFFIRMATIVE ACTION BY 5 TO 4, BUT WIDER VOTE BANS A RACIAL POINT SYSTEM

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court preserved affirmative action in university admissions today by a one-vote margin but with a forceful endorsement of the role of racial diversity on campus in achieving a more equal society.
 "In order to cultivate a set of leaders with legitimacy in the eyes of the citizenry, it is necessary that the path to leadership be visibly open to talented and qualified individuals of every race and ethnicity," Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote in her 5-to-4 majority opinion upholding the University of Michigan's consideration of race for admission to its law school. Excerpts, Page A24. 
 At the same time, by a vote of 6 to 3, and with Justice O'Connor in the majority as well, the court invalidated the same university's affirmative action program for admission to its undergraduate college. The difference was in the details: the undergraduate school uses a point system based in part on race. 
As a result, the pair of decisions -- the court's first in a generation to address race in university admissions -- provided a blueprint for taking race into account without running afoul of the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection.
The law school engages in a "highly individualized, holistic review of each applicant's file" in which race counts as a factor but is not used in a "mechanical way," Justice O'Connor said. For that reason, she said, it was consistent with Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.'s controlling opinion in the Bakke case in 1978, which permitted the use of race as one "plus factor." 
The result of today's rulings was that Justice Powell's solitary view that there was a "compelling state interest" in racial diversity, a position that had appeared undermined by the court's subsequent equal protection rulings in other contexts and that some lower federal courts had boldly repudiated, has now been endorsed by five justices and placed on a stronger footing than ever before.
President Bush had asked the court to declare the universities' policies unconstitutional. 
Although the four dissenters in the law school case did not directly confront the continued validity of the Bakke precedent, it was clear that both Justices Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia would have overturned it if they could. "Every time the government places citizens on racial registers and makes race relevant to the provision of burdens or benefits, it demeans us all," Justice Thomas said in a dissenting opinion that Justice Scalia also signed.
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote the principal dissenting opinion that spoke for all four, including Justice Anthony M. Kennedy. He took a more oblique approach that attacked the law school program not so much for its premise as for how it works in practice, dismissing it as "a carefully managed program designed to ensure proportionate representation of applicants from selected minority groups." 
Justice Kennedy, writing separately, said that Justice Powell's opinion in the Bakke case "states the correct rule for resolving this case," but that the court had not applied the "meaningful strict scrutiny" under which the program should have been found unconstitutional.
Joining Justice O'Connor's majority opinion in Grutter v. Bollinger, No. 02-241, were Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who wrote a brief concurring opinion, and Justices John Paul Stevens, David H. Souter and Stephen G. Breyer. 
By contrast with the law school, the admissions program for Michigan's College of Literature, Science, and the Arts awards 20 points on a scale of 150 for membership in an underrepresented minority group -- blacks, Hispanics, and American Indians -- with 100 points guaranteeing admission to the university's main undergraduate school. Fixed numbers of points are also awarded for other factors, including alumni connections, geography and athletics.
The inclusion of race on the scale, with the result that nearly all qualified minority applicants are admitted to the competitive program while many qualified white students are turned away, demonstrates the absence of the "individualized consideration" that the Bakke decision required, Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote. Justice O'Connor echoed that conclusion, describing the undergraduate program as a "nonindividualized, mechanical one."
Justice Breyer, concurring separately, did not sign the Rehnquist opinion. The dissenters were Justices Ginsburg and Souter, who said the majority opinion was incorrect on the merits, and Justice Stevens. He said the case should have been dismissed because the plaintiffs, two white students who had failed to win admission under an earlier version of the undergraduate admissions policy, lacked standing to challenge the current policy that the university adopted in 1998.
The rulings today came as an enormous relief to the civil rights community, as well as to public and private colleges and universities around the country, dozens of which had joined briefs supporting Michigan. Although the constitutional issue applied directly only to public institutions, federal law has given private colleges an equal stake in the outcome by forbidding racial discrimination by educational institutions that receive federal money.
President Bush issued a statement praising the court "for recognizing the value of diversity on our nation's campuses." He added, "Like the court, I look forward to the day when America will truly be a color-blind society." 
The statement made no reference to the fact that the administration had asked the court to invalidate both Michigan programs as thinly disguised quota systems that violated the holding of the Bakke decision. Mr. Bush had personally announced in a televised address in January that his administration was siding against the university. 
"A reader would never know that the administration's brief derided the law school's goal of having a critical mass of underrepresented students in each class," the liberal advocacy group People for the American Way said in a statement.
The administration's brief faulted the university for having failed to consider "race-neutral alternatives" before adopting its affirmative action plans. The only example the brief offered as an acceptable alternative was the plan now used in Texas, California and Florida, where admission is offered automatically to high school graduates above a particular class rank.
In her majority opinion today, Justice O'Connor was close to dismissive of the administration's analysis. She said the brief did not explain "how such plans could work for graduate and professional schools." She added: "Moreover, even assuming such plans are race-neutral, they may preclude the university from conducting the individualized assessments necessary to assemble a student body that is not just racially diverse, but diverse along all the qualities valued by the university."
The court's precedents, including the Bakke decision, made clear that any official consideration of race must survive a standard of judicial review known as strict scrutiny, meaning that the policy must serve a compelling state interest and be narrowly tailored to achieve that interest. Consequently, Michigan faced two analytical hurdles in defending its programs in lawsuits brought by three disappointed white applicants, Barbara Grutter in the law school case and Jennifer Gratz and Patrick Hamacher in the undergraduate case, Gratz v. Bollinger, No. 02-516. The university had to persuade the court that racial diversity was a compelling interest that was appropriately served by the challenged programs.
Justice O'Connor's opinion in the law school case embraced the diversity rationale. "Effective participation by members of all racial and ethnic groups in the civil life of our nation is essential if the dream of one nation, indivisible, is to be realized," she said. She added that law schools, in particular, served as gateways to economic and political leadership.
"Access to legal education (and thus the legal profession) must be inclusive of talented and qualified individuals of every race and ethnicity," she said, "so that all members of our heterogeneous society may participate in the educational institutions that provide the training and education necessary to succeed in America."
Her opinion cited a number of briefs from businesses, colleges and, with particular emphasis, two dozen retired senior military officers and former commandants of the service academies, who told the court that affirmative action was essential to maintaining an integrated officer corps.
The real debate came down to whether either program was narrowly tailored enough. With its 20-point formula, the undergraduate program had always appeared more vulnerable. The Federal District Court in Detroit had invalidated both programs. On appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, upheld the law school program but never issued an opinion after hearing arguments on the undergraduate program.
In concluding her opinion, Justice O'Connor noted that 25 years had passed since Bakke and said affirmative action should "no longer be necessary" 25 years from now. That led Curt A. Levey, director of legal and public affairs at the Center for Individual Rights, the law firm representing the plaintiffs, to observe that universities would start facing new lawsuits 20 years from now if they did not heed the court's advice.
"The court says affirmative action is not timeless, and it had better not be," Mr. Levey said in an interview.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary Sue Coleman, president of the University of Michigan, outside the Supreme Court yesterday. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Mary Sue Coleman, president of the University of Michigan, and Marvin Krislov, the general counsel. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A23) Chart/Photos:VOTING WITH MAJORITY GinsburgSouterStevensBreyerO'Connor DISSENTERS KennedyRehnquistThomasScalia Preserving the Race Factor "It is necessary that the path to leadership be visibly open to talented and qualified individuals of every race and ethnicity." FROM THE MAJORITY OPINION, WRITTEN BY JUSTICE SANDRA DAY O'CONNOR DISSENTERS GinsburgSoutertevens VOTING WITH MAJORITY KennedyRehnquistThomasScaliaBreyerO'Connor Ruling Out a Formula "Nothing . . . in Bakke signaled that a university may employ whatever means it desires to achieve the stated goal of diversity." FROM THE MAJORITY OPINION, WRITTEN BY CHIEF JUSTICE WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (95%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); ETHNICITY (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (78%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



613 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 8919 words

HEADLINE: THE SUPREME COURT; 
Excerpts From Justices' Opinions on Michigan Affirmative Action Cases

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from the Supreme Court rulings yesterday on two cases involving affirmative action policies at the University of Michigan. The vote in the law school case, Grutter v. Bollinger, was 5 to 4. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote the opinion, and dissents were filed by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas. The vote in the case on undergraduate admissions, Gratz v. Bollinger, was 6 to 3. Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote for the court, while Justice O'Connor wrote a concurring opinion and Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissented. The full decisions are on line at nytimes.com/national

LAW SCHOOL

FROM THE DECISION
By Justice O'Connor
 Petitioner Barbara Grutter is a white Michigan resident who applied to the law school in 1996 with a 3.8 grade point average and 161 L.S.A.T. score. The law school initially placed petitioner on a waiting list, but subsequently rejected her application. In December 1997, petitioner filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan against the law school, the Regents of the University of Michigan, Lee Bollinger (dean of the law school from 1987 to 1994, and president of the University of Michigan from 1996 to 2002), Jeffrey Lehman (dean of the law school), and Dennis Shields (director of admissions at the law school from 1991 until 1998). Petitioner alleged that respondents discriminated against her on the basis of race in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 78 Stat. 252, 42 U. S. C. S$2000d; and Rev. Stat. S$1977, as amended, 42 U. S. C. S$1981. 
Petitioner further alleged that her application was rejected because the law school uses race as a "predominant" factor, giving applicants who belong to certain minority groups "a significantly greater chance of admission than students with similar credentials from disfavored racial groups." Petitioner also alleged that respondents "had no compelling interest to justify their use of race in the admissions process." Petitioner requested compensatory and punitive damages, an order requiring the law school to offer her admission, and an injunction prohibiting the law school from continuing to discriminate on the basis of race. 
In an attempt to quantify the extent to which the law school actually considers race in making admissions decisions, the parties introduced voluminous evidence at trial. Relying on data obtained from the law school, petitioner's expert, Dr. Kinley Larntz, generated and analyzed "admissions grids" for the years in question (1995-2000). These grids show the number of applicants and the number of admittees for all combinations of G.P.A.s and L.S.A.T. scores. Dr. Larntz made "cell-by-cell" comparisons between applicants of different races to determine whether a statistically significant relationship existed between race and admission rates. He concluded that membership in certain minority groups "is an extremely strong factor in the decision for acceptance," and that applicants from these minority groups "are given an extremely large allowance for admission" as compared to applicants who are members of nonfavored groups. Dr. Larntz conceded, however, that race is not the predominant factor in the law school's admissions calculus. 
Dr. Stephen Raudenbush, the law school's expert, focused on the predicted effect of eliminating race as a factor in the law school's admission process. In Dr. Raudenbush's view, a race-blind admissions system would have a "very dramatic," negative effect on underrepresented minority admissions. He testified that in 2000, 35 percent of underrepresented minority applicants were admitted. Dr. Raudenbush predicted that if race were not considered, only 10 percent of those applicants would have been admitted. Under this scenario, underrepresented minority students would have comprised 4 percent of the entering class in 2000 instead of the actual figure of 14.5 percent. 
In the end, the district court concluded that the law school's use of race as a factor in admissions decisions was unlawful. Applying strict scrutiny, the district court determined that the law school's asserted interest in assembling a diverse student body was not compelling because "the attainment of a racially diverse class . . . was not recognized as such by Bakke and is not a remedy for past discrimination." The district court went on to hold that even if diversity were compelling, the law school had not narrowly tailored its use of race to further that interest. . . . 
We last addressed the use of race in public higher education over 25 years ago. In the landmark Bakke case, we reviewed a racial set-aside program that reserved 16 out of 100 seats in a medical school class for members of certain minority groups. The decision produced six separate opinions, none of which commanded a majority of the Court. Four justices would have upheld the program against all attack on the ground that the government can use race to "remedy disadvantages cast on minorities by past racial prejudice." Four other justices avoided the constitutional question altogether and struck down the program on statutory grounds. Justice Powell provided a fifth vote not only for invalidating the set-aside program, but also for reversing the state court's injunction against any use of race whatsoever. The only holding for the Court in Bakke was that a "state has a substantial interest that legitimately may be served by a properly devised admissions program involving the competitive consideration of race and ethnic origin.". . . For the reasons set out below, today we endorse Justice Powell's view that student body diversity is a compelling state interest that can justify the use of race in university admissions. 
We turn to the question whether the law school's use of race is justified by a compelling state interest. Before this Court, as they have throughout this litigation, respondents assert only one justification for their use of race in the admissions process: obtaining "the educational benefits that flow from a diverse student body." In other words, the law school asks us to recognize, in the context of higher education, a compelling state interest in student body diversity. 
We first wish to dispel the notion that the law school's argument has been foreclosed, either expressly or implicitly, by our affirmative-action cases decided since Bakke. It is true that some language in those opinions might be read to suggest that remedying past discrimination is the only permissible justification for race-based governmental action. But we have never held that the only governmental use of race that can survive strict scrutiny is remedying past discrimination. Nor, since Bakke, have we directly addressed the use of race in the context of public higher education. Today, we hold that the law school has a compelling interest in attaining a diverse student body. 
The law school's educational judgment that such diversity is essential to its educational mission is one to which we defer. The law school's assessment that diversity will, in fact, yield educational benefits is substantiated by respondents and their amici. Our scrutiny of the interest asserted by the law school is no less strict for taking into account complex educational judgments in an area that lies primarily within the expertise of the university. Our holding today is in keeping with our tradition of giving a degree of deference to a university's academic decisions, within constitutionally prescribed limits. 
We have long recognized that, given the important purpose of public education and the expansive freedoms of speech and thought associated with the university environment, universities occupy a special niche in our constitutional tradition. In announcing the principle of student body diversity as a compelling state interest, Justice Powell invoked our cases recognizing a constitutional dimension, grounded in the First Amendment, of educational autonomy: "The freedom of a university to make its own judgments as to education includes the selection of its student body." From this premise, Justice Powell reasoned that by claiming "the right to select those students who will contribute the most to the 'robust exchange of ideas,' " a university "seek s to achieve a goal that is of paramount importance in the fulfillment of its mission." Our conclusion that the law school has a compelling interest in a diverse student body is informed by our view that attaining a diverse student body is at the heart of the law school's proper institutional mission, and that "good faith" on the part of a university is "presumed" absent "a showing to the contrary." 
As part of its goal of "assembling a class that is both exceptionally academically qualified and broadly diverse," the law school seeks to "enroll a 'critical mass' of minority students." The law school's interest is not simply "to assure within its student body some specified percentage of a particular group merely because of its race or ethnic origin." That would amount to outright racial balancing, which is patently unconstitutional. Rather, the law school's concept of critical mass is defined by reference to the educational benefits that diversity is designed to produce. 
These benefits are substantial. As the district court emphasized, the law school's admissions policy promotes "cross-racial understanding," helps to break down racial stereotypes, and "enables students to better understand persons of different races." These benefits are "important and laudable," because "classroom discussion is livelier, more spirited, and simply more enlightening and interesting" when the students have "the greatest possible variety of backgrounds." 
The law school's claim of a compelling interest is further bolstered by its amici, who point to the educational benefits that flow from student body diversity. In addition to the expert studies and reports entered into evidence at trial, numerous studies show that student body diversity promotes learning outcomes, and "better prepares students for an increasingly diverse workforce and society, and better prepares them as professionals." 
These benefits are not theoretical but real, as major American businesses have made clear that the skills needed in today's increasingly global marketplace can only be developed through exposure to widely diverse people, cultures, ideas, and viewpoints. What is more, high-ranking retired officers and civilian leaders of the United States military assert that, " b ased on their decades of experience," a "highly qualified, racially diverse officer corps . . . is essential to the military's ability to fulfill its principle mission to provide national security." The primary sources for the nation's officer corps are the service academies and the Reserve Officers Training Corps (R.O.T.C.), the latter comprising students already admitted to participating colleges and universities. At present, "the military cannot achieve an officer corps that is both highly qualified and racially diverse unless the service academies and the R.O.T.C. used limited race-conscious recruiting and admissions policies." To fulfill its mission, the military "must be selective in admissions for training and education for the officer corps, and it must train and educate a highly qualified, racially diverse officer corps in a racially diverse setting." We agree that " i t requires only a small step from this analysis to conclude that our country's other most selective institutions must remain both diverse and selective." . . .
Individuals with law degrees occupy roughly half the state governorships, more than half the seats in the United States Senate, and more than a third of the seats in the United States House of Representatives. The pattern is even more striking when it comes to highly selective law schools. A handful of these schools accounts for 25 of the 100 United States Senators, 74 United States Courts of Appeals judges, and nearly 200 of the more than 600 United States District Court judges. 
In order to cultivate a set of leaders with legitimacy in the eyes of the citizenry, it is necessary that the path to leadership be visibly open to talented and qualified individuals of every race and ethnicity. All members of our heterogeneous society must have confidence in the openness and integrity of the educational institutions that provide this training. As we have recognized, law schools "cannot be effective in isolation from the individuals and institutions with which the law interacts." Access to legal education (and thus the legal profession) must be inclusive of talented and qualified individuals of every race and ethnicity, so that all members of our heterogeneous society may participate in the educational institutions that provide the training and education necessary to succeed in America. 
The law school does not premise its need for critical mass on "any belief that minority students always (or even consistently) express some characteristic minority viewpoint on any issue." To the contrary, diminishing the force of such stereotypes is both a crucial part of the law school's mission, and one that it cannot accomplish with only token numbers of minority students. Just as growing up in a particular region or having particular professional experiences is likely to affect an individual's views, so too is one's own, unique experience of being a racial minority in a society, like our own, in which race unfortunately still matters. The law school has determined, based on its experience and expertise, that a "critical mass" of underrepresented minorities is necessary to further its compelling interest in securing the educational benefits of a diverse student body. 
Even in the limited circumstance when drawing racial distinctions is permissible to further a compelling state interest, government is still "constrained in how it may pursue that end: T he means chosen to accomplish the government's asserted purpose must be specifically and narrowly framed to accomplish that purpose." The purpose of the narrow tailoring requirement is to ensure that "the means chosen 'fit' . . . th e compelling goal so closely that there is little or no possibility that the motive for the classification was illegitimate racial prejudice or stereotype." 
Since Bakke, we have had no occasion to define the contours of the narrow-tailoring inquiry with respect to race-conscious university admissions programs. That inquiry must be calibrated to fit the distinct issues raised by the use of race to achieve student body diversity in public higher education. Contrary to Justice Kennedy's assertions, we do not "abandon strict scrutiny." Rather, as we have already explained, we adhere to Adarand's teaching that the very purpose of strict scrutiny is to take such "relevant differences into account." 
To be narrowly tailored, a race-conscious admissions program cannot use a quota system -- it cannot "insulat e each category of applicants with certain desired qualifications from competition with all other applicants." Instead, a university may consider race or ethnicity only as a " 'plus' in a particular applicant's file," without "insulat ing the individual from comparison with all other candidates for the available seats." In other words, an admissions program must be "flexible enough to consider all pertinent elements of diversity in light of the particular qualifications of each applicant, and to place them on the same footing for consideration, although not necessarily according them the same weight." 
We find that the law school's admissions program bears the hallmarks of a narrowly tailored plan. As Justice Powell made clear in Bakke, truly individualized consideration demands that race be used in a flexible, nonmechanical way. It follows from this mandate that universities cannot establish quotas for members of certain racial groups or put members of those groups on separate admissions tracks. Nor can universities insulate applicants who belong to certain racial or ethnic groups from the competition for admission. Universities can, however, consider race or ethnicity more flexibly as a "plus" factor in the context of individualized consideration of each and every applicant. 
We are satisfied that the law school's admissions program, like the Harvard plan described by Justice Powell, does not operate as a quota. Properly understood, a "quota" is a program in which a certain fixed number or proportion of opportunities are "reserved exclusively for certain minority groups." Quotas " 'impose a fixed number or percentage which must be attained, or which cannot be exceeded,' " and "insulate the individual from comparison with all other candidates for the available seats." In contrast, "a permissible goal . . . require s only a good-faith effort . . . to come within a range demarcated by the goal itself," Sheet Metal Workers v. EEOC, supra, at 495, and permits consideration of race as a "plus" factor in any given case while still ensuring that each candidate "compete s with all other qualified applicants." 
Justice Powell's distinction between the medical school's rigid 16-seat quota and Harvard's flexible use of race as a "plus" factor is instructive. Harvard certainly had minimum goals for minority enrollment, even if it had no specific number firmly in mind. What is more, Justice Powell flatly rejected the argument that Harvard's program was "the functional equivalent of a quota" merely because it had some " 'plus' " for race, or gave greater "weight" to race than to some other factors, in order to achieve student body diversity. 
The law school's goal of attaining a critical mass of underrepresented minority students does not transform its program into a quota. As the Harvard plan described by Justice Powell recognized, there is of course "some relationship between numbers and achieving the benefits to be derived from a diverse student body, and between numbers and providing a reasonable environment for those students admitted." " S ome attention to numbers," without more, does not transform a flexible admissions system into a rigid quota. Nor, as Justice Kennedy posits, does the law school's consultation of the "daily reports," which keep track of the racial and ethnic composition of the class (as well as of residency and gender), "suggest there was no further attempt at individual review save for race itself" during the final stages of the admissions process. To the contrary, the law school's admissions officers testified without contradiction that they never gave race any more or less weight based on the information contained in these reports. Moreover, as Justice Kennedy concedes, the number of African-American, Latino, and Native-American students in each class at the law school varied from 13.5 to 20.1 percent, a range inconsistent with a quota. 
The Chief Justice believes that the law school's policy conceals an attempt to achieve racial balancing, and cites admissions data to contend that the law school discriminates among different groups within the critical mass. But, as the Chief Justice concedes, the number of underrepresented minority students who ultimately enroll in the law school differs substantially from their representation in the applicant pool and varies considerably for each group from year to year. 
That a race-conscious admissions program does not operate as a quota does not, by itself, satisfy the requirement of individualized consideration. When using race as a "plus" factor in university admissions, a university's admissions program must remain flexible enough to ensure that each applicant is evaluated as an individual and not in a way that makes an applicant's race or ethnicity the defining feature of his or her application. The importance of this individualized consideration in the context of a race-conscious admissions program is paramount. 
Here, the law school engages in a highly individualized, holistic review of each applicant's file, giving serious consideration to all the ways an applicant might contribute to a diverse educational environment. The law school affords this individualized consideration to applicants of all races. There is no policy, either de jure or de facto, of automatic acceptance or rejection based on any single "soft" variable. Unlike the program at issue in Gratz v. Bollinger, ante, the law school awards no mechanical, predetermined diversity "bonuses" based on race or ethnicity. Like the Harvard plan, the law school's admissions policy "is flexible enough to consider all pertinent elements of diversity in light of the particular qualifications of each applicant, and to place them on the same footing for consideration, although not necessarily according them the same weight." 
We also find that, like the Harvard plan Justice Powell referenced in Bakke, the law school's race-conscious admissions program adequately ensures that all factors that may contribute to student body diversity are meaningfully considered alongside race in admissions decisions. With respect to the use of race itself, all underrepresented minority students admitted by the law school have been deemed qualified. By virtue of our nation's struggle with racial inequality, such students are both likely to have experiences of particular importance to the law school's mission, and less likely to be admitted in meaningful numbers on criteria that ignore those experiences. . . .
The law school does not, however, limit in any way the broad range of qualities and experiences that may be considered valuable contributions to student body diversity. To the contrary, the 1992 policy makes clear " t here are many possible bases for diversity admissions," and provides examples of admittees who have lived or traveled widely abroad, are fluent in several languages, have overcome personal adversity and family hardship, have exceptional records of extensive community service, and have had successful careers in other fields. The law school seriously considers each "applicant's promise of making a notable contribution to the class by way of a particular strength, attainment, or characteristic -- e.g., an unusual intellectual achievement, employment experience, nonacademic performance, or personal background." All applicants have the opportunity to highlight their own potential diversity contributions through the submission of a personal statement, letters of recommendation, and an essay describing the ways in which the applicant will contribute to the life and diversity of the law school. 
What is more, the law school actually gives substantial weight to diversity factors besides race. The law school frequently accepts nonminority applicants with grades and test scores lower than underrepresented minority applicants (and other nonminority applicants) who are rejected. This shows that the law school seriously weighs many other diversity factors besides race that can make a real and dispositive difference for nonminority applicants as well. By this flexible approach, the law school sufficiently takes into account, in practice as well as in theory, a wide variety of characteristics besides race and ethnicity that contribute to a diverse student body. Justice Kennedy speculates that "race is likely outcome determinative for many members of minority groups" who do not fall within the upper range of L.S.A.T. scores and grades. But the same could be said of the Harvard plan discussed approvingly by Justice Powell in Bakke, and indeed of any plan that uses race as one of many factors. 
Petitioner and the United States argue that the law school's plan is not narrowly tailored because race-neutral means exist to obtain the educational benefits of student body diversity that the law school seeks. We disagree. Narrow tailoring does not require exhaustion of every conceivable race-neutral alternative. Nor does it require a university to choose between maintaining a reputation for excellence or fulfilling a commitment to provide educational opportunities to members of all racial groups. Narrow tailoring does, however, require serious, good faith consideration of workable race-neutral alternatives that will achieve the diversity the university seeks. 
We agree with the Court of Appeals that the law school sufficiently considered workable race-neutral alternatives. The district court took the law school to task for failing to consider race-neutral alternatives such as "using a lottery system" or "decreasing the emphasis for all applicants on undergraduate G.P.A. and L.S.A.T. scores." But these alternatives would require a dramatic sacrifice of diversity, the academic quality of all admitted students, or both. 
The law school's current admissions program considers race as one factor among many, in an effort to assemble a student body that is diverse in ways broader than race. Because a lottery would make that kind of nuanced judgment impossible, it would effectively sacrifice all other educational values, not to mention every other kind of diversity. So too with the suggestion that the law school simply lower admissions standards for all students, a drastic remedy that would require the law school to become a much different institution and sacrifice a vital component of its educational mission. The United States advocates "percentage plans," recently adopted by public undergraduate institutions in Texas, Florida, and California to guarantee admission to all students above a certain class-rank threshold in every high school in the state. The United States does not, however, explain how such plans could work for graduate and professional schools. Moreover, even assuming such plans are race-neutral, they may preclude the university from conducting the individualized assessments necessary to assemble a student body that is not just racially diverse, but diverse along all the qualities valued by the university. We are satisfied that the law school adequately considered race-neutral alternatives currently capable of producing a critical mass without forcing the law school to abandon the academic selectivity that is the cornerstone of its educational mission. 
We acknowledge that "there are serious problems of justice connected with the idea of preference itself." Narrow tailoring, therefore, requires that a race-conscious admissions program not unduly harm members of any racial group. Even remedial race-based governmental action generally "remains subject to continuing oversight to assure that it will work the least harm possible to other innocent persons competing for the benefit." To be narrowly tailored, a race-conscious admissions program must not "unduly burden individuals who are not members of the favored racial and ethnic groups."
We are satisfied that the law school's admissions program does not. Because the law school considers "all pertinent elements of diversity," it can (and does) select nonminority applicants who have greater potential to enhance student body diversity over underrepresented minority applicants. As Justice Powell recognized in Bakke, so long as a race-conscious admissions program uses race as a "plus" factor in the context of individualized consideration, a rejected applicant "will not have been foreclosed from all consideration for that seat simply because he was not the right color or had the wrong surname. . . His qualifications would have been weighed fairly and competitively, and he would have no basis to complain of unequal treatment under the Fourteenth Amendment."

FROM THE DISSENT
By Chief Justice Rehnquist
I agree with the Court that, "in the limited circumstance when drawing racial distinctions is permissible," the government must ensure that its means are narrowly tailored to achieve a compelling state interest. I do not believe, however, that the University of Michigan Law School's (law school) means are narrowly tailored to the interest it asserts. The law school claims it must take the steps it does to achieve a "critical mass" of underrepresented minority students. But its actual program bears no relation to this asserted goal. Stripped of its "critical mass" veil, the law school's program is revealed as a naked effort to achieve racial balancing. 
As we have explained many times, " a ny preference based on racial or ethnic criteria must necessarily receive a most searching examination." Our cases establish that, in order to withstand this demanding inquiry, respondents must demonstrate that their methods of using race "fit" a compelling state interest "with greater precision than any alternative means." Before the Court's decision today, we consistently applied the same strict scrutiny analysis regardless of the government's purported reason for using race and regardless of the setting in which race was being used. We rejected calls to use more lenient review in the face of claims that race was being used in "good faith" because " m ore than good motives should be required when government seeks to allocate its resources by way of an explicit racial classification system." We likewise rejected calls to apply more lenient review based on the particular setting in which race is being used. Indeed, even in the specific context of higher education, we emphasized that "constitutional limitations protecting individual rights may not be disregarded." 
Although the Court recites the language of our strict scrutiny analysis, its application of that review is unprecedented in its deference. Respondents' asserted justification for the law school's use of race in the admissions process is "obtaining the educational benefits that flow from a diverse student body." They contend that a "critical mass" of underrepresented minorities is necessary to further that interest. Respondents and school administrators explain generally that "critical mass" means a sufficient number of underrepresented minority students to achieve several objectives: To ensure that these minority students do not feel isolated or like spokespersons for their race; to provide adequate opportunities for the type of interaction upon which the educational benefits of diversity depend; and to challenge all students to think critically and re-examine stereotypes. These objectives indicate that "critical mass" relates to the size of the student body. Respondents further claim that the law school is achieving "critical mass." 
In practice, the law school's program bears little or no relation to its asserted goal of achieving "critical mass." Respondents explain that the law school seeks to accumulate a "critical mass" of each underrepresented minority group. But the record demonstrates that the law school's admissions practices with respect to these groups differ dramatically and cannot be defended under any consistent use of the term "critical mass." 
From 1995 through 2000, the law school admitted between 1,130 and 1,310 students. Of those, between 13 and 19 were Native American, between 91 and 108 were African-Americans, and between 47 and 56 were Hispanic. If the law school is admitting between 91 and 108 African-Americans in order to achieve "critical mass," thereby preventing African-American students from feeling "isolated or like spokespersons for their race," one would think that a number of the same order of magnitude would be necessary to accomplish the same purpose for Hispanics and Native Americans. Similarly, even if all of the Native American applicants admitted in a given year matriculate, which the record demonstrates is not at all the case, how can this possibly constitute a "critical mass" of Native Americans in a class of over 350 students? In order for this pattern of admission to be consistent with the law school's explanation of "critical mass," one would have to believe that the objectives of "critical mass" offered by respondents are achieved with only half the number of Hispanics and one-sixth the number of Native Americans as compared to African-Americans. But respondents offer no race-specific reasons for such disparities. Instead, they simply emphasize the importance of achieving "critical mass," without any explanation of why that concept is applied differently among the three underrepresented minority groups. 
These different numbers, moreover, come only as a result of substantially different treatment among the three underrepresented minority groups, as is apparent in an example offered by the law school and highlighted by the Court: The school asserts that it "frequently accepts nonminority applicants with grades and test scores lower than underrepresented minority applicants (and other nonminority applicants) who are rejected." Specifically, the law school states that "69 minority applicants were rejected between 1995 and 2000 with at least a 3.5 Grade Point Average (G.P.A.) and a score of 159 or higher on the Law School Admissions Test (L.S.A.T.)" while a number of Caucasian and Asian-American applicants with similar or lower scores were admitted. 
Review of the record reveals only 67 such individuals. Of these 67 individuals, 56 were Hispanic, while only 6 were African-American, and only 5 were Native American. This discrepancy reflects a consistent practice. For example, in 2000, 12 Hispanics who scored between a 159-160 on the L.S.A.T. and earned a G.P.A. of 3.00 or higher applied for admission and only 2 were admitted. Meanwhile, 12 African-Americans in the same range of qualifications applied for admission and all 12 were admitted. Likewise, that same year, 16 Hispanics who scored between a 151-153 on the L.S.A.T. and earned a 3.00 or higher applied for admission and only 1 of those applicants was admitted. Twenty-three similarly qualified African-Americans applied for admission and 14 were admitted. 
These statistics have a significant bearing on petitioner's case. Respondents have never offered any race-specific arguments explaining why significantly more individuals from one underrepresented minority group are needed in order to achieve "critical mass" or further student body diversity. They certainly have not explained why Hispanics, who they have said are among "the groups most isolated by racial barriers in our country," should have their admission capped out in this manner. True, petitioner is neither Hispanic nor Native American. But the law school's disparate admissions practices with respect to these minority groups demonstrate that its alleged goal of "critical mass" is simply a sham. Petitioner may use these statistics to expose this sham, which is the basis for the law school's admission of less qualified underrepresented minorities in preference to her. Surely strict scrutiny cannot permit these sort of disparities without at least some explanation. 
Only when the "critical mass" label is discarded does a likely explanation for these numbers emerge. The Court states that the law school's goal of attaining a "critical mass" of underrepresented minority students is not an interest in merely "assur ing within its student body some specified percentage of a particular group merely because of its race or ethnic origin." The Court recognizes that such an interest "would amount to outright racial balancing, which is patently unconstitutional." The Court concludes, however, that the law school's use of race in admissions, consistent with Justice Powell's opinion in Bakke, only pays " s ome attention to numbers." 
But the correlation between the percentage of the law school's pool of applicants who are members of the three minority groups and the percentage of the admitted applicants who are members of these same groups is far too precise to be dismissed as merely the result of the school paying "some attention to the numbers." . . . I do not believe that the Constitution gives the law school such free rein in the use of race. The law school has offered no explanation for its actual admissions practices and, unexplained, we are bound to conclude that the law school has managed its admissions program, not to achieve a "critical mass," but to extend offers of admission to members of selected minority groups in proportion to their statistical representation in the applicant pool. But this is precisely the type of racial balancing that the Court itself calls "patently unconstitutional." 
Finally, I believe that the law school's program fails strict scrutiny because it is devoid of any reasonably precise time limit on the law school's use of race in admissions. We have emphasized that we will consider "the planned duration of the remedy" in determining whether a race-conscious program is constitutional. Our previous cases have required some limit on the duration of programs such as this because discrimination on the basis of race is invidious.

FROM THE DISSENT
By Justice Thomas
Frederick Douglass, speaking to a group of abolitionists almost 140 years ago, delivered a message lost on today's majority: 
" I n regard to the colored people, there is always more that is benevolent, I perceive, than just, manifested towards us. What I ask for the negro is not benevolence, not pity, not sympathy, but simply justice. The American people have always been anxious to know what they shall do with us. . . . I have had but one answer from the beginning. Do nothing with us! Y our doing with us has already played the mischief with us. Do nothing with us! If the apples will not remain on the tree of their own strength, if they are worm-eaten at the core, if they are early ripe and disposed to fall, let them fall! . . . And if the negro cannot stand on his own legs, let him fall also. All I ask is, give him a chance to stand on his own legs! Let him alone! . . . Your interference is doing him positive injury." 
Like Douglass, I believe blacks can achieve in every avenue of American life without the meddling of university administrators. Because I wish to see all students succeed whatever their color, I share, in some respect, the sympathies of those who sponsor the type of discrimination advanced by the University of Michigan Law School. The Constitution does not, however, tolerate institutional devotion to the status quo in admissions policies when such devotion ripens into racial discrimination. Nor does the Constitution countenance the unprecedented deference the Court gives to the law school, an approach inconsistent with the very concept of "strict scrutiny." 
No one would argue that a university could set up a lower general admission standard and then impose heightened requirements only on black applicants. Similarly, a university may not maintain a high admission standard and grant exemptions to favored races. The law school, of its own choosing, and for its own purposes, maintains an exclusionary admissions system that it knows produces racially disproportionate results. Racial discrimination is not a permissible solution to the self-inflicted wounds of this elitist admissions policy. 
The majority upholds the law school's racial discrimination not by interpreting the people's Constitution, but by responding to a faddish slogan of the cognoscenti. Nevertheless, I concur in part in the Court's opinion. First, I agree with the Court insofar as its decision, which approves of only one racial classification, confirms that further use of race in admissions remains unlawful. Second, I agree with the Court's holding that racial discrimination in higher education admissions will be illegal in 25 years. I respectfully dissent from the remainder of the Court's opinion and the judgment, however, because I believe that the law school's current use of race violates the Equal Protection Clause and that the Constitution means the same thing today as it will in 300 months

UNDERGRADUATES

FROM THE DECISION
By Chief Justice Rehnquist
During 1995 and 1996, O.U.A. Office of Undergraduate Admissions counselors evaluated applications according to grade point average combined with what were referred to as the "Scuga" factors. These factors included the quality of an applicant's high school (S), the strength of an applicant's high school curriculum (C), an applicant's unusual circumstances (U), an applicant's geographical residence (G) and an applicant's alumni relationships (A). After these scores were combined to produce an applicant's "G.P.A. 2" score, the reviewing admissions counselors referenced a set of "Guidelines" tables, which listed G.P.A. 2 ranges on the vertical axis, and American College Test/Scholastic Aptitude Test (ACT/SAT) scores on the horizontal axis. Each table was divided into cells that included one or more courses of action to be taken, including admit, reject, delay for additional information, or postpone for reconsideration.
In both years, applicants with the same G.P.A. 2 score and ACT/SAT score were subject to different admissions outcomes based upon their racial or ethnic status. For example, as a Caucasian in-state applicant, Gratz's G.P.A. 2 score and ACT score placed her within a cell calling for a postponed decision on her application. An in-state or out-of-state minority applicant with Gratz's scores would have fallen within a cell calling for admission.
In 1997, the university modified its admissions procedure. Specifically, the formula for calculating an applicant's G.P.A. 2 score was restructured to include additional point values under the "U" category in the Scuga factors. Under this new system, applicants could receive points for underrepresented minority status, socioeconomic disadvantage, or attendance at a high school with a predominantly underrepresented minority population, or underrepresentation in the unit to which the student was applying (for example, men who sought to pursue a career in nursing). Under the 1997 procedures, Hamacher's G.P.A. 2 score and ACT score placed him in a cell on the in-state applicant table calling for postponement of a final admissions decision. An underrepresented minority applicant placed in the same cell would generally have been admitted.
Beginning with the 1998 academic year, the O.U.A. dispensed with the guidelines tables and the Scuga point system in favor of a "selection index," on which an applicant could score a maximum of 150 points. This index was divided linearly into ranges generally calling for admissions dispositions as follows: 100-150 (admit); 95-99 (admit or postpone); 90-94 (postpone or admit); 75-89 (delay or postpone); 74 and below (delay or reject).
Each application received points based on high school grade point average, standardized test scores, academic quality of an applicant's high school, strength or weakness of high school curriculum, in-state residency, alumni relationship, personal essay, and personal achievement or leadership. Of particular significance here, under a "miscellaneous" category, an applicant was entitled to 20 points based upon his or her membership in an underrepresented racial or ethnic minority group. . . .
Justice Powell, in Bakke, expressed the view that the consideration of race as a factor in admissions might in some cases serve a compelling government interest. Respondents contended that the L.S.A. College of Literature, Science and the Arts has just such an interest in the educational benefits that result from having a racially and ethnically diverse student body and that its program is narrowly tailored to serve that interest. . . .
The district court began its analysis by reviewing this court's decision in Bakke. Although the court acknowledged that no decision from this court since Bakke has explicitly accepted the diversity rationale discussed by Justice Powell, it also concluded that this court had not, in the years since Bakke, ruled out such a justification for the use of race. The district court concluded that respondents and their amici curiae had presented "solid evidence" that a racially and ethnically diverse student body produces significant educational benefits such that achieving such a student body constitutes a compelling governmental interest. . . . The court granted petitioners' motion for summary judgment with respect to the L.S.A.'s admissions programs in existence from 1995 through 1998, and respondents' motion with respect to the L.S.A.'s admissions programs for 1999 and 2000. Accordingly, the district court denied petitioners' request for injunctive relief. . . . 
Petitioners argue, first and foremost, that the university's use of race in undergraduate admissions violates the 14th Amendment. Specifically, they contend that this court has only sanctioned the use of racial classifications to remedy identified discrimination, a justification on which respondents have never relied. Petitioners further argue that "diversity as a basis for employing racial preferences is simply too open-ended, ill-defined and indefinite to constitute a compelling interest capable of supporting narrowly-tailored means." But for the reasons set forth today in Grutter v. Bollinger, the court has rejected these arguments of petitioners.
Petitioners alternatively argue that even if the university's interest in diversity can constitute a compelling state interest, the district court erroneously concluded that the university's use of race in its current freshman admissions policy is narrowly tailored to achieve such an interest. Petitioners argue that the guidelines the university began using in 1999 do not "remotely resemble the kind of consideration of race and ethnicity that Justice Powell endorsed in Bakke." Respondents reply that the university's current admissions program is narrowly tailored and avoids the problems of the medical school of the University of California at Davis program (U.C. Davis) rejected by Justice Powell. They claim that their program "hews closely" to both the admissions program described by Justice Powell as well as the Harvard College admissions program that he endorsed. Specifically, respondents contend that the L.S.A.'s policy provides the individualized consideration that "Justice Powell considered a hallmark of a constitutionally appropriate admissions program." For the reasons set out below, we do not agree. . . . 
It is by now well established that "all racial classifications reviewable under the Equal Protection Clause must be strictly scrutinized." This "standard of review is not dependent on the race of those burdened or benefited by a particular classification." Thus, "any person, of whatever race, has the right to demand that any governmental actor subject to the Constitution justify any racial classification subjecting that person to unequal treatment under the strictest of judicial scrutiny." To withstand our strict scrutiny analysis, respondents must demonstrate that the university's use of race in its current admission program employs "narrowly tailored measures that further compelling governmental interests." Because "racial classifications are simply too pernicious to permit any but the most exact connection between justification and classification," our review of whether such requirements have been met must entail "a most searching examination." We find that the university's policy, which automatically distributes 20 points, or one-fifth of the points needed to guarantee admission, to every single "underrepresented minority" applicant solely because of race, is not narrowly tailored to achieve the interest in educational diversity that respondents claim justifies their program. . . .
Justice Powell's opinion in Bakke emphasized the importance of considering each particular applicant as an individual, assessing all of the qualities that individual possesses and, in turn, evaluating that individual's ability to contribute to the unique setting of higher education. . . . 
The current L.S.A. policy does not provide such individualized consideration. The L.S.A.'s policy automatically distributes 20 points to every single applicant from an "underrepresented minority" group, as defined by the university. The only consideration that accompanies this distribution of points is a factual review of an application to determine whether an individual is a member of one of these minority groups. Moreover, unlike Justice Powell's example, where the race of a "particular black applicant" could be considered without being decisive, the L.S.A.'s automatic distribution of 20 points has the effect of making "the factor of race . . . decisive" for virtually every minimally qualified underrepresented minority applicant. . . .
Respondents contend that "the volume of applications and the presentation of applicant information make it impractical for L.S.A. to use the admissions system" upheld by the court today in Grutter. But the fact that the implementation of a program capable of providing individualized consideration might present administrative challenges does not render constitutional an otherwise problematic system.

FROM THE DISSENT
By Justice Ginsburg
We are not far distant from an overtly discriminatory past, and the effects of centuries of law-sanctioned inequality remain painfully evident in our communities and schools. 
In the wake "of a system of racial caste only recently ended," large disparities endure. Unemployment, poverty and access to health care vary disproportionately byrace. Neighborhoods and schools remain racially divided. African-American and Hispanic children are all too often educated in poverty-stricken and underperforming institutions. Adult African-Americans and Hispanics generally earn less than whites with equivalent levels of education. Equally credentialed job applicants receive different receptions depending on their race. Irrational prejudice is still encountered in real estate markets and consumer transactions. "Bias both conscious and unconscious, reflecting traditional and unexamined habits of thought, keeps up barriers that must come down if equal opportunity and nondiscrimination are ever genuinely to become this country's law and practice." . . .
Our jurisprudence ranks race a "suspect" category, "not because race is inevitably an impermissible classification, but because it is one which usually, to our national shame, has been drawn for the purpose of maintaining racial inequality." But where race is considered "for the purpose of achieving equality," no automatic proscription is in order. For, as insightfully explained, "the Constitution is both colorblind and color conscious. To avoid conflict with the equal protection clause, a classification that denies a benefit, causes harm or imposes a burden must not be based on race. In that sense, the Constitution is colorblind. But the Constitution is color conscious to prevent discrimination being perpetuated and to undo the effects of past discrimination." Contemporary human rights documents draw just this line; they distinguish between policies of oppression and measures designed to accelerate de facto equality. 
The mere assertion of a laudable governmental purpose, of course, should not immunize a race-conscious measure from careful judicial inspection. Close review is needed "to ferret out classifications in reality malign, but masquerading as benign," and to "ensure that preferences are not so large as to trammel unduly upon the opportunities of others or interfere too harshly with legitimate expectations of persons in once-preferred groups." 
Examining in this light the admissions policy employed by the University of Michigan's College of Literature, Science and the Arts (College), and for the reasons well stated by Justice Souter, I see no constitutional infirmity. Like other top-ranking institutions, the college has many more applicants for admission than it can accommodate in an entering class. Every applicant admitted under the current plan, petitioners do not here dispute, is qualified to attend the college. The racial and ethnic groups to which the college accords special consideration (African-Americans, Hispanics and Native Americans) historically have been relegated to inferior status by law and social practice; their members continue to experience class-based discrimination to this day. There is no suggestion that the college adopted its current policy in order to limit or decrease enrollment by any particular racial or ethnic group, and no seats are reserved on the basis of race. Nor has there been any demonstration that the college's program unduly constricts admissions opportunities for students who do not receive special consideration based on race. The stain of generations of racial oppression is still visible in our society, and the determination to hasten its removal remains vital. One can reasonably anticipate, therefore, that colleges and universities will seek to maintain their minority enrollment -- and the networks and opportunities thereby opened to minority graduates -- whether or not they can do soin full candor through adoption of affirmative action plans of the kind here at issue. Without recourse to such plans, institutions of higher education may resort to camouflage. For example, schools may encourage applicants to write of their cultural traditions in the essays they submit, or to indicate whether English is their second language. . . . If honesty is the best policy, surely Michigan's accurately described, fully disclosed college affirmative action program is preferable to achieving similar numbers through winks, nods and disguises. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (92%); PETITIONS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); GRADES & GRADING (76%); STATISTICS (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); DAMAGES (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LAW SCHOOLS; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; MINORITIES (US); BLACKS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (94%) SUPREME COURT (US); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (73%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (73%) O'CONNOR, SANDRA DAY (ASSOC JUSTICE); REHNQUIST, WILLIAM H (CHIEF JUSTICE); THOMAS, CLARENCE (ASSOC JUSTICE); GINSBURG, RUTH BADER (ASSOC JUSTICE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



614 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Fed, Impatient on Recovery, Seems Readyto Cut Again 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
For most of the last two years, if not the last decade, Alan Greenspan has given the American economy the benefit of the doubt.
 The hangover from the 1990's boom has helped create the longest hiring slump in more than 60 years, yet Mr. Greenspan has used almost every public appearance to describe the economy as fundamentally sound. While some other Federal Reserve officials have argued in their closed-door meetings for a more aggressive campaign of interest rate cuts, Mr. Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, has counseled caution. 
 His patience -- and that of almost every other top Fed official -- now appears to have run out. 
The Federal Reserve seems ready to cut interest rates once again when it concludes a two-day meeting that begins today. Economists and investors are divided over whether the cut will be one-half of a percentage point or a quarter-point, but they are nearly unanimous in thinking that the Fed will reduce borrowing costs to encourage business and consumer spending.
A rate cut would come despite a 20 percent jump in the stock market since mid-March and early signs that retail sales are rising, manufacturing is recovering and inflation is picking up slightly. Even a quarter-point reduction would lower rates to their lowest level since the 1950's. 
"The Fed is saying, 'Until we see the whites of the eyes of a strong economy, we're going to continue to ease,' " said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist of ITG/Hoenig, an investment firm. "They don't want ephemeral signs. They want the original article."
As recently as September, the Fed brushed aside requests by two members for a rate cut. Early this year, Mr. Greenspan sounded another confident note by suggesting that the economy would revive once the main fighting in Iraq, and the uncertainty it created, was over.
But after two years of unfulfilled hints of a true recovery, the late 90's bubble in stock prices and technology spending now appears to have had more lasting effects than many policy makers expected.
"We've gotten a lot of these imbalances out" of the economy, but the process is "not finished," a Fed official who insisted on anonymity said. 
Officials now say that the risks of not acting appear to outweigh the risks of setting off inflation by flooding the economy with money. They have specifically spoken of the potential -- which they call unlikely but dangerous -- for deflation, a sustained decline in prices that can cripple an economy by causing wages to fall and debts to become unmanageable.
"There's still a pattern of weakness and sluggishness that argues that policy makers ought to be very, very vigilant," said R. Glenn Hubbard, a former top economic adviser to President Bush who is now an economics professor at Columbia University. "That weakness could actually spiral."
However encouraging the most recent data, almost no one considers the economy healthy. 
Wal-Mart managers have recently seen some customers carrying calculators through their stores, apparently adding up their bills before they go to the register, a company spokeswoman, Mona Williams, said. More merchandise is being scattered around the stores, suggesting that people are changing their minds about what they can afford in the middle of a shopping trip. And packs containing more than one shirt have not been selling well.
"The country at large might be more optimistic about the economy," Ms. Williams said, "but the people we see in our stores are still very cautious about how they spend their money."
Still, the economy does seem as if it may be near a turning point, regardless of whether the Fed again cuts its benchmark rate. The rate -- which directly affects the cost of automobile, credit card and many other loans -- is now 1.25 percent, after 12 reductions since the beginning of 2001.
The rise in prices on items other than food and energy -- known as core inflation -- reached an annual rate of 3.2 percent last month, more than in any other month since last August, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Manufacturing activity has increased to the highest level in months, two Fed surveys reported last week. The number of people filing new claims for jobless benefits has fallen for two weeks. 
These whiffs of a recovery helped send the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index briefly above 1,000 last week for the first time since the summer of 2002. The rally swelled consumer savings and made it easier for businesses to finance projects by issuing new shares.
Just as important, Fed officials' recent statements of concern over deflation have convinced bond investors that the Fed will keep short-term interest rates low for some time. Long-term rates, which are set by the market, have fallen further as a result, making mortgages and other loans less expensive.
Speaking to a bankers' conference early this month, Mr. Greenspan said that the changes in the credit markets suggested "a fairly marked turnaround" for the economy.
The markets have not offered so much reason for hope at any point in the last three years. But other suggestions of a broad economic recovery have emerged at various times, only to prove fleeting -- and to undermine predictions by Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues of turnarounds in 2001 and again in 2002. Either a new shock has occurred -- like the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, or the corporate governance scandals -- or the brief spurts of optimism have wilted under the bubble's weight. 
The stop-and-start growth seems to have chastened the Fed a bit, economists say, leaving policy makers to consider whether the economy is perhaps facing less positive prospects. The scariest comparison involves Japan, which is suffering from deflation after a bubble of its own helped create a decade of weak growth.
"The striking thing about Japan is that in the post-bubble environment, growth consistently disappointed forecasters," said Dean Maki, a vice president at J. P. Morgan Chase and a former Fed staff member. He added that in its study of Japan, the Fed "concluded that the Bank of Japan had the right policy for the forecasts" but did not cut interest rates quickly enough to halt the economy's decline.
Because deflation appears harder to reverse than it is to prevent, Fed officials seem willing to take out insurance -- a word Mr. Greenspan has used -- against it, even if they regard it as unlikely. Recently, they have also become concerned about the effectiveness of measures they might take if they still needed to stimulate the economy after their benchmark interest rate reached zero -- for instance, buying long-term bonds.
Roger W. Ferguson Jr., the Fed's vice chairman, said in a recent speech that the measures "are not simple to execute or without downside risks."
The only uncertainty, analysts say, is how aggressively the Fed acts this week to ensure that the economy recovers. Investors rate the chances of a half-point cut and a quarter-point cut as roughly even, according to the price of a futures contract based on the Fed's actions. And of the 16 Fed experts polled on Friday by Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm, 10 predicted a quarter-point cut and 6 a half-point reduction.
But nearly all economists agree that the Fed is bound to release a statement tomorrow that tries to keep long-term rates low by suggesting that officials have no plans to raise the benchmark rate anytime soon. An increase will come only when the long slump is clearly over.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and his colleagues have reduced the benchmark interest rate 12 times in a less-than-effective effort to stimulate a weak economy. There have been spurts of optimism, which only dissipated. A 13th cut this week now seems likely. (Getty Images) Chart: "Feeling a Need to Act"The Federal Reserve is expected to cut interest rates on Wednesday because it is worried about the slow pace of the current economic expansion. Graph tracks interest rates from 1999-2003. (Fed funds target rate: 1.25%) (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); RETAIL SALES (51%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) LEONHARDT, DAVID; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



615 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Staten Island: Recycling Plant To Expand 

BYLINE:  By Michael Cooper (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 The owners of a paper recycling plant in Travis said yesterday that they would build a new plant to make corrugated cardboard out of the paper they recycle. 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the owners of Visy Paper announced that the company would build a 100,000-square-foot plant employing 125 people next to their existing plant. In exchange, the city's Economic Development Corporation has agreed to help build railroad tracks to the plant; the state is to provide it with inexpensive electricity; and the city is to provide what one official described as "a small amount of tax benefits." Michael Cooper (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (91%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (85%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003 



616 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2505 words

HEADLINE: Scotland's New Chefs Take Its Riches to Heart 

BYLINE:  By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: BALLATER, Scotland 

 BODY:
THE titles on a shelf of cookbooks at the store on George Street in Edinburgh prepared me for the meals to come. "Good Food," "Simple Food," "Classic Cooking," they read, which is precisely what many of Scotland's best restaurants are delivering.
 For years on end, this country has produced many of Europe's prime raw materials -- Aberdeen Angus beef, known around the world; game like pheasant, grouse and venison, which grace menus on the Continent and in America; salmon and turbot, scallops and langoustines from the frigid waters of the Atlantic and the North Sea; and delicate strawberries, raspberries and black currants, which have slowly ripened by mild sunshine. 
 But the best went to Madrid and Paris, if not to London, sometimes identified as Scottish, more often not. Now much more of it stays at home, and Scottish chefs (as well as a few English colleagues who have recently settled north of the border) have the opportunity to show it off as never before. 
"A new generation is taking over," said Douglas Jack, the highly respected general manager of Kinnaird, an Edwardian country house hotel near Dunkeld, just off the main road leading north into the Highlands. "They're young, talented and straightforward. There's no airs and graces about them or their cooking."
At Anstruther, a little fishing port in Fife, northeast of Edinburgh, Peter Jukes, the chef and owner of the Cellar, intently monitors the quality of the products he buys, mostly straight from the boats, for his cozy, stone-walled, candlelit bistro. He orders crabs, for example, only during the four and a half months when they are at their very best, and he makes his brick-red bisque in the time-consuming, traditional way, loading it with crayfish tails and enriching it with the shells.
"Down in London," Mr. Jukes told me, "they have plenty of creativity and imagination. But we have the ingredients and the flavors. All we do is serve people a delicious plate of food. There's no need to genuflect."
And in Scotland, delicious food comes with several bonuses.
One is the heart-stirring landscape, whether the serene valley of the Tay at Kinnaird, with cows grazing languidly beneath hillsides carpeted with golden gorse, or the panorama of islands and islets floating dreamily in the Sound of Jura opposite the Crinan Hotel on the west coast, or the vast moors and majestic pines surrounding Darroch Learg at Ballater on Deeside, near the royal family's much-loved Balmoral Castle.
I've always thought good food was good food, no matter where you ate it, but maybe I've been wrong. Things seem to taste better amid Scotland's stark beauty, especially in high summer, when you can bask in it through dessert because the sun sets so late.
A second bonus is an ample supply of excellent, reasonably priced wine, much of it French. The Auld Alliance between Scotland and France, sealed in 1295, took strapping Scots soldiers across the Channel to fight against the common enemy, England, and to form a Scots Guard for Joan of Arc. In return, Scotland got first crack at the best wines of Bordeaux. They still had it until the 1670's, and they have never lost the taste for things French.
The Scots have their troubles these days. As Matthew Parris wrote recently in The Times of London, their economy is flat-lining, their major industries are shrinking, their "self-confidence is thin," and their new Parliament Building looks likely to cost 10 times the original estimate of $65 million. But there is certainly nothing anemic about the restaurant scene.
Edinburgh sets Scotland's gastronomic as well as its political pace, and Restaurant Martin Wishart has the city's most accomplished kitchen. Housed in waterfront buildings in Leith, the port neighborhood, it has a cool, airy look despite low ceilings, with bright modern paintings on the walls.
The food looks beautiful on the plate and tastes just as good. A heap of silky scallop tartare nestled inside the hole in a foie gras "doughnut," providing an intriguing if unexpected contrast. A bowl of crab soup, better than any I have ever eaten in Baltimore or Charleston, came with a series of adornments -- a disk of sauteed crab and scallop, chopped chives, powdered trumpet mushrooms and rouille given a sumptuous smoothness by adding potato puree.
A skillfully roasted fillet of pearly halibut arrived atop a bed of rosti, surrounded by three thin slices of meltingly rich stuffed pigs' trotter. A gribiche sauce, less acid than usual because the pickles used in it had been blanched beforehand, bound the surf and turf together. Not exactly simple food, that I grant, but not the kind of silly invention that leaves you asking, "So?"
The service was uneven. Inattentive if sweet early in the evening, it picked up smartly when the time came to study the appetizing cheese chariot. A young Scottish waiter knowledgeably described its contents and recommended several winners, including a pressed goat cheese from Ayrshire called Bonnet and a delectably runny square from Sussex called Flower-Marie.
EDINBURGH is, of course, a very old city, whose heyday was the late 18th century, when great Scots like Robert Adam, the architect; Adam Smith, the economist; and David Hume, the philosopher, all lived there. It retains its graceful Georgian squares and crescents. But modern buildings have been fitted into the cityscape with style and discretion, and at Oloroso, a new downtown restaurant, you can eat atop a sleek office block, gazing out across rooftops that are 200-odd years old, to the waters of the Firth of Forth.
Black chairs, white tablecloths, two plate-glass walls and one of mustard yellow give the place a cheerful look, and a young, animated clientele makes it buzz, day and night.
As for its cuisine, the chef, Tony Singh, lets the clear flavors of high-quality ingredients speak for themselves, in a veal T-bone or swordfish from the grill or a plate of fresh, well iced, deeply cupped Galway oysters. Nor does Mr. Singh, a Scots-born Sikh with a burr as vivid as Billy Connolly's, shy from cosmopolitan notes. He deftly pairs each of three blue cheeses with a different fruit-based chutney, and I particularly relished his plaice roulade, spiked with mint and coriander, perched on a hill of coconut rice, surrounded with diced mango and tamarind syrup -- genuine tastes of the subcontinent.
Other restaurateurs also reflect their families' origins.
Not too far away, a clan of third-generation Scots with roots in Abruzzo, headed by Philip and Mary Contini, run Britain's best delicatessen, Valvona & Crolla. It has been in business since 1934. But now, beyond the shelves of olive oil and pasta and cases of cheeses and salamis, an award-winning wine department stands ready to sell you a bottle or a case, and beyond that, the Continis have tucked a cafe where Mrs. Contini is a constant presence, radiating warmth and good cheer.
Pick whatever bottle you like, pay retail plus $6.50, and you can drink it with your lunch. You won't find brunellos or Super Tuscans with markups that small on many restaurant wine lists. With our bottle, a fruity Barbaresco, my wife, Betsey, and I ate a plate of ham and salami with chewy house-made bread; a fine veal cutlet alla Milanese (with the bone in, as in Milan); a pizza with real character, made with San Marzano tomatoes trucked from Italy, and a tart with a light, lustrous, fluffy filling, made with unwaxed Amalfi lemons.
"They're just family things, traditional things," Mrs. Contini said. "I think we've had enough faffing about."
Clive Davidson, a bluff, gregarious South African, has never faffed about, whatever that might mean. I wrote 18 years ago that his Champany Inn near Linlithgow, west of Edinburgh, served the best steaks in Europe, and it still does -- thick, Texas-size, char-grilled and juice-glazed, cut from sides of Angus beef hung on the bone for three weeks in ionized chilling rooms.
Anne Davidson, the big man's wife, who is Dundee charm personified, will tell you which cuts are in season. Yes, Virginia, steaks have seasons; some are better when the steers are eating grass, others when they are eating grain. Then Mr. Davidson or one of his knowledgeable staff members will recommend something from the 35,000-bottle cellar, which includes South African rarities as well as big names from France, Italy, Australia and California.
If you're an oenophile and carnivore, Champany is your meat.
Mr. Wishart's main rival for culinary honors in Scotland -- both have a Michelin star -- is Andrew Fairlie. He, too, presides in a restaurant named for himself, but his is located within a mega-hotel, Gleneagles, a Caledonian version of the Greenbrier, north of the capital. Before his arrival, it had been as renowned for its indifferent food as for its championship golf courses.
"The guy can cook," Betsey said as she tucked into a packet of crab wrapped in a Savoy cabbage leaf that had been poached in a nage of carefully turned vegetables, mussels and other shellfish. My scallops, from the Isle of Skye, were remarkably sweet, sauced sparingly with coriander oil.
Then there was the roast Bresse chicken that we shared -- a robustly flavored strip of breast for each of us, with cracklingly crisp skin, and a rich, rectangular packet that turned out to be confit made from the leg. Magnificent. The wild mushrooms strewn liberally on the plate and a voluptuous potato puree didn't hurt much, either. Not even Georges Blanc, the master chef whose restaurant is a Bresse landmark, could do it any better.
Yes, the chicken comes from France, and so do many of the cheeses. But Mr. Fairlie, 40, gets his lamb from Glenearn Estate, where his brother, Jim, is a shepherd; herbs from Arran; and fish from Finlay Finlayson in Fort William. He's still a lad from Perth at heart, despite years of French training.
In a country where waiters and waitresses sometimes perform as if they had been plying their trade for all of 35 minutes, the staff put together by Dale Dewbury, the restaurant manager, is informed, attentive and personable, and they found me a bottle of one of my favorite wines, Charles Melton's Nine Popes, a Rhone-style blend from South Australia.
UNFORTUNATELY, that wasn't the case at Crinan, a charming lochside town with a miniature red-and-white lighthouse. As the menu proudly announced, the Crinan Hotel's langoustines were landed only three hours before we ate them; they were unforgettably tender and succulent, the equal of any Maine lobster. The beef came from the Duke of Buccleuch's estates, which house not only prize steers but Leonardo's "Madonna With the Yarnwinder," an astonishing painting to discover in a remote castle.
But no mayonnaise came with the langoustines. One waitress showered cork into my wine, announced that she had done so and took no steps to rectify the situation. Another, asked what kind of oysters were being served, answered opaquely, "cold." 
Too bad.
In a rural setting near Dalry, in a little-known corner of Scotland (at least to foreigners) wedged between Glasgow and the sea, Keith Braidwood has turned the heads of all who have eaten at Braidwoods, his simple, whitewashed restaurant, a converted "but and ben," or two-roomed cottage. That includes the Michelin inspectors, who bestowed a star. And why not? His unctuous foie gras comes with a relish of gooseberries, made by "two little old ladies in that farmhouse over there," as his wife, Nicola, said.
A chunk of firm, fresh local turbot was enhanced not by a butter or cream sauce but by a lobster reduction. Other dishes sang, too, notably a gamy loin of Ayrshire lamb with a filmy mushroom "essence" and a custardlike Parmesan tart. On the wine list I found a fabulous pinot noir from the minuscule Mount Edward estate in Central Otago in New Zealand. Great stuff in what The Scotsman newspaper once described as "the backyard of the back of beyond."
Still undiscovered, undeservedly so, is Monachyle Mhor, a secluded hotel down a one-track road along Loch Voil from Balquhidder, where the brigand Rob Roy is buried. The view from the chic, cozy hillside dining room could hardly be more romantic: a picturesque glen with mountains at one end, receding like waves. Angela Lewis, wry and Australian-born, presides there, while her husband, Tom, a Highlands native, toils in the kitchen.
They served us Scottish salmon two ways -- cold-smoked and silky, hot-smoked over peat and flaky -- followed by a lush, juicy, pan-fried loin of pork with a sharp anchovy dressing. The pork came from the Lewises' own hogs. "There were five little pigs," Mrs. Lewis told us, "and now there are none." No fewer than 48 wines on their excellent list are offered at $35 or less.
Wilderness on a heroic scale envelops Darroch Learg, and David Mutter's food is appropriately hearty, exemplified by a burly, fibrous fillet of beef in a clear, stock-based sauce flavored with tarragon, with a heap of oxtail and another of notably spicy and nutty celeriac puree riding shotgun.
Of Kinnaird, which is owned by an American, Constance Ward, much has been written, including this in the 2003 Good Food Guide: "As somewhere to relax and get away from it all, Kinnaird takes some beating." One reason is its 9,000 acres; another is the cooking of Trevor Brooks, an Englishman. He shows his versatility in a plate of Skye oysters served in several guises -- Thai style, in Sauternes jelly, and so on.
Kinnaird will also help to remind you that this country is the world capital of fish-for-breakfast. I draw the line at kedgeree, a loaf made from flaked fish and rice, but during 10 days in Scotland early this month I ate smoked haddock topped with an orange-yolked poached egg; scrambled eggs and smoked salmon; proper Scottish kippers on the bone, with plenty of melted butter; and a fat pink fillet of trout, masterly cooked by Elaine Murdoch, 36, mother of five and hostess at the farmhouse bed-and-breakfast where we stayed one night.
Once upon a time, they served fish like that on the luxury transcontinental trains in the United States. No kidding.

Addresses to Keep in Mind
SOME restaurants where diners can try Scotland's new -- and old -- tastes are listed below. All dialing codes are 011-44.

THE CELLAR -- 24 East Green, Anstruther; 1333-310378.
ANDREW FAIRLIE AT GLENEAGLES -- Auchterarder; 1764-694267, andrew.fairlie@gleneagles.com.
DARROCH LEARG -- Braemar Road, Ballater; 13397-55443, info@darrochlearg.co.uk.
MONACHYLE MHOR -- Balquhidder; 1877-384622, info@monachylemhor.com.
CRINAN HOTEL -- Crinan; 1546-830261, nryan@crinanhotel.com.
BRAIDWOODS -- Drumastle Mill Cottage, Dalry; 1294-833544, keithbraidwood@btconnect.com.
KINNAIRD ESTATE -- Dunkeld; 1796-482440, enquiry@kinnairdestate.com.
OLOROSO -- 33 Castle Street, Edinburgh; 131-226-7614, www.oloroso.co.uk.
RESTAURANT MARTIN WISHART -- 54 The Shore, Leith, Edinburgh; 131-553-3557, www.martin-wishart.co.uk.
VALVONA & CROLLA -- 19 Elm Row, Edinburgh; 131-556-6066, www.valvonacrolla.co.uk.
CHAMPANY INN -- Champany Corner, Linlithgow; 1506-834532, reception@champany.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FROM ANGUS BEEF -- Clive Davidson, right, holds a generous sample of the steak he serves at the Champany Inn, west of Edinburgh.; PRIDE OF THE REGION -- At the Monachyle Mhor Hotel near Balquhidder, below, the choices for diners include two local products: salmon or pork.; NEW GENERATION -- Andrew Fairlie, above, cooks at the Gleneagles hotel in Scotland. Right, his crab wrapped in cabbage.; COULD NOT BE FRESHER -- The local langoustines served at the Crinan Hotel. (Photographs by Murdo Macleod for The New York Times)(pg. F6); FRESH FROM THE SOUND -- Ben Tish, above left, buys langoustines from the fishermen who pull their boats up outside the Crinan Hotel on the west coast of Scotland.; INTO THE HIGHLANDS -- Saddle of lamb with sweetbreads and morels, above, at Kinnaird Estate, near Dunkeld. Tom Lewis, left, the chef at Monachyle Mhor in Balquhidder, shows off local fare. (Photographs by Murdo Macleod for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BEEF (71%); HARBORS & PORTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (71%) NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) SCOTLAND (97%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



617 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
A Superpower Goes Its Own Way, at Its Peril

BYLINE:  By GEOFFREY WHEATCROFT; Geoffrey Wheatcroft's most recent book is "The Controversy of Zion."

 BODY:
ROGUE NATION
American Unilateralism and the Failure of Good Intentions
By Clyde Prestowitz
328 pages. Basic Books. $26.
 Nothing is harder for Americans to understand than the extraordinary complex of responses that the United States evokes today throughout the rest of the world: incomprehension, resentment, admiration, fear, envy and, as one might say, shock and awe. The incomprehension is mutual. Few nations have ever needed more "to see ourselves as others see us," in the phrase, than Americans today. 
 At this astonishing juncture in history, when the United States has demonstrated overwhelming military might and the ability to act as it pleases, Clyde Prestowitz steps back to try to view his country in perspective. Now president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a research group in Washington, he has had a long and varied career, partly spent outside America, which gives him an advantage most of his compatriots lack. His theme in "Rogue Nation" is American unilateralism, not only in the mainstream of foreign policy but also in various tributuaries. Mr. Prestowitz recites a familar and gloomy litany -- small-arms control, global warming and Kyoto, the International Criminal Court and plenty of other areas where Washington has thwarted international consensus.
There is nothing new about national egoism, after all; great powers have always pursued their own interests. Yet even when they didn't do so in a decorous way, or with what high-minded earlier Americans called a decent respect for the opinions of mankind, older powers necessarily had some regard for the views and interests of other countries. Even at the apogee of British might 100 years ago, when their neighbors often saw the English as perfidious and hypocritical, Britain pretended to pay some attention to those neighbors and tried to retain some of their good will.
The United States, under the Bush administration, Mr. Prestowitz suggests, is quite different, with a disrespect for the opinion of mankind that verges on the indecent. If its attitude toward its foes is Accius' "Oderint dum metuant" -- "Let them hate us so long as they fear us" -- the administration's attitude toward its friends is borrowed from the 19th-century statesman Prince Schwarzenberg: They will be astonished by the magnitude of our ingratitude.
As Mr. Prestowitz perceives, the real trouble with current American policy is not so much that it is unilateral and highhanded as that it doesn't even understand the cynical, older notion of enlightened self-interest. Washington acts on the principle that "they need us more than we need them," a belief that has been encouraged by some of the more simple-minded exponents of globalization as the latest version of the American way. Quite apart from being a little ill mannered, this isn't even true.
That applies in the Middle East, above all in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Although it's often said that only the United States can untie that knot, one could also put it the other way around: unilateral and unaided American power cannot effect a political solution in the Holy Land in the same way that it can achieve an effortless military victory in Mesopotamia.
At the same time, nearly the most significant thing about the Israeli-Palestinian issue is the wedge it is driving between the United States and Europe. Once again there is a great gulf of perception, not least because of the way this story is covered in the news media. If you knew about it only from television in the United States and in Europe, Mr. Prestowitz observes, it might be two completely different stories.
For numerous Americans, Indonesia, Taiwan and Latin America -- all of which Mr. Prestowitz touches on -- are little more than names, though also markets and sources of cheap labor. Mr. Prestowitz is depressed, as he might be, by the ignorance of the outside world found among his countrymen, some of whom seem to echo the English insularity parodied by Nancy Mitford: "Abroad is unutterably bloody and foreigners are fiends."
In reality, as Mr. Prestowitz recognizes, relations between the United States and Europe are now crucially important. Even if Europe doesn't exist as a military factor, it is a fully fledged superpower in global economics. When Europe acts as one body and speaks with one voice -- as it increasingly does in economic matters -- the United States needs to recognize it as an equal, which can't be given orders. The European Union's gross domestic product will soon be more than $9 trillion, twice Japan's. Although the United States is at present still ahead with $10 trillion, it would only take a shift in exchange rates to reverse that.
It is at least possible that the real threat to American dominance may come not from violent Islamism or from the "Japanese challenge" (the subject of Mr. Prestowitz's last book, "Trading Places"), but from an old Europe that has its own economic weapons to hand. No more than a European demand for oil sales to be billed in euros rather than dollars would be needed to put serious pressure on the American currency. 
Writing in a virtuous strain just this side of self-righteousness (itself a venerable American tradition), Mr. Prestowitz says that "we need to rethink American exceptionalism," recognizing that other people's problems "are our problems too and that we don't have all the answers." This is not a popular message in Washington today, but that's where it needs to be heard.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clyde Prestowitz (Jerry Bauer/Basic Books) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LITERATURE (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (52%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (55%)

PERSON: WHEATCROFT, GEOFFREY; PRESTOWITZ, CLYDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

TITLE: ROGUE NATION (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



618 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Newcomer Charges Bosnia Business Barricades 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina 

 BODY:
When Benjamin Herzberg concluded in 2001 that the air had gone out of the Internet bubble, he decided to quit his job at a software company in New York City and follow his wife to another high-wire destination: Bosnia.
 To say that Mr. Herzberg traded Silicon Alley for Sniper Alley does not quite capture his journey: Serbian gunmen no longer menace the main street in Sarajevo, the Bosnian capital. 
 These days, the risk for an ambitious new arrival here is to fail quietly -- to sink without a trace into the quicksand of a country that has soaked up billions of dollars in aid and frustrated foreigners since 1996. 
That almost was his fate. After moving here with his wife, Deborah Isser, the chief of staff for the international community's high representative, he tried his luck at comic book publishing, something he had done earlier in his career. Mr. Herzberg, 33, who grew up in Paris and holds French and Israeli passports, encountered so much red tape that he ended up publishing his comic in France.
As frustrating as it was, that experience has served him well. A few months later, Paddy Ashdown, the high representative, hired him to tackle Bosnia's encrusted rules as an agent of the international community, with the goal of reforming its economy.
Mr. Ashdown, a British politician with an ear for a catchy phrase, had declared in a speech that the only way to sweep away the barriers to business in Bosnia would be to bulldoze them. It fell to Mr. Herzberg to turn Mr. Ashdown's oratorical flourish into a workable program.
Since November 2002, he has devised and led the Bulldozer Initiative, a program of 50 economic reforms to make Bosnia more business-friendly. His goal was to get the changes passed in 150 days, a tight timetable chosen to inject a sense of urgency. 
The last of the reforms was adopted by Bosnia's three Parliaments on May 29, a month later than Mr. Herzberg had hoped, but months -- potentially years -- earlier than otherwise.
"This man has made an idea into a fantastic reality, arguably the biggest success we have achieved in this country," said Mr. Ashdown, who speaks of Mr. Herzberg with the pride of a favored son.
"The beauty of what Benj has done is that he has, for the first time, created the voice of a civil society here," he added. "Businessmen now interface directly with the government."
A scholarly looking fellow, Mr. Herzberg was not the most obvious person to drive Mr. Ashdown's bulldozer. The son of a garment dealer and a social worker, Mr. Herzberg views himself as a businessman.
"I'm not a diplomat," he said. Indeed, he complains that in Bosnia "the regulations are piled on top of each other like some kind of disgusting layer cake."
While he may need to polish his skills as a statesman, Mr. Herzberg has sold the reform agenda to Bosnians by using his considerable skills as a showman -- skills he developed during the hyper-oxygenated days of the Internet, when he was peddling e-commerce solutions.
The Bulldozer Initiative has won praise from local and foreign executives, even those who despair that the country will ever shake off the twin legacies of a civil war and a centrally planned economy.
"It's very important, particularly because it happened so quickly," said Wolfgang Wenzel, director of Volkswagen's assembly plant on the outskirts of Sarajevo. "You've got an old elite here, which is struggling to transform itself from a socialist to a market-oriented economy."
By mobilizing the support of businesses and promoting the campaign relentlessly in the news media, Mr. Herzberg was able to overcome the vested interests and inertia that usually doom such efforts.
The reforms, he noted, were all proposed by local businesspeople, based on the bureaucratic hurdles their companies faced. That made them harder for politicians to resist or to water down.
"Benjamin Herzberg was the first person from the international community to ask us what our problems were," said Tomislav Grizelj, the head of a wastewater treatment company in Sarajevo.
As an exercise in law writing, it was not Jeffersonian. The reforms include such humdrum items as easing a regulation requiring publishers to put bar codes on magazines and newspapers.
To obtain a bar code, publishers had to supply 12 free copies to various national libraries. Under the new rule, they still have to get the code, but no longer have to give away as many copies.
Mr. Herzberg said he avoided more sweeping reforms -- like an overhaul of the tax system -- because they could not be achieved on an accelerated timetable, and because some would conflict with the work of other organizations, like the European Union or the World Bank.
"Some of the businessmen said, 'I pay too many taxes,' " Mr. Herzberg recalled. "We had to be realistic."
Some critics said that by setting its sights low, the Bulldozer Initiative devalued the concept of economic reform.
"Changing a few articles in a commercial regulation is not a reform," said Senad Pecanin, the editor of the weekly magazine Dani. "A reform is changing the constitutional structure."
Others, however, say Bosnia has to start somewhere. And some of the regulations are less trivial than they sound. For half a century, for example, companies that build factories and office buildings have been required to pay a percentage of the construction cost to the city to maintain atomic bomb shelters. Never mind that these shelters were rarely used -- even during the civil war of 1992 to 1995. The money is often diverted to political parties.
"It is completely meaningless," said Stojan Presic, a businessman in the town of Doboj, who proposed eliminating the fee.
Mr. Presic, who built an office for his new trading company, said he would have saved only about $600 if he did not have to pay the tax. But he would not have felt cheated. "Whenever people talk to me about taxes, I feel like my ears are growing, and I'm turning into a donkey," he said.
Now, Mr. Herzberg is preparing for the next set of reforms, which he says must be pushed by the local people themselves. Given Bosnia's dismal record, he concedes that they could easily stall.
"That's a risk," he said. "But we have to allow people to build their own state. We can't just say, 'it will never work.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Benjamin Herzberg devised the Bulldozer Initiative, a program of 50 economic changes in Bosnia. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRENDS (70%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (68%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC NOVEL PUBLISHING (68%); LEGISLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: HERZBERG, BENJAMIN; LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (87%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%) BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



619 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Wall at Ground Zero 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "A Wall Once Unseen, Now Revered" (news article, June 23): 
 I disagree with your characterization of the memorialization of the World Trade Center bathtub wall as an act of reverence. 
 By turning the wall into a museum piece, Daniel Libeskind's design for ground zero robs the wall of its ability to perform the very function for which it was built: providing a stable foundation for uniquely giant office towers. Moreover, by refusing to rebuild on the footprints of the twin towers, Mr. Libeskind's design actually weakens the ability of the bathtub wall to hold back the river. 
A truly dignified memorial would focus on the human victims of 9/11 and would be surrounded by a revitalized downtown, not a hole in the ground.

RICHARD JOFFE
New York, June 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



620 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Was Higher Than Expected This Month 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Consumer confidence was higher than expected in June, driven by optimism about the economy's prospects six months from now, the Conference Board said yesterday. 
 The Conference Board's consumer confidence index was little changed at 83.5 this month, compared with 83.6 in May. The reading was forecast to fall to 82. 
 A separate gauge in the report measuring the attitudes of consumers about conditions in six months rose to 95.9, the highest since September, from 94.5.
The lowest interest rates in four decades, three months of rising stock prices and $330 billion in tax cuts are reinforcing expectations for faster growth in the second half, economists said. Federal Reserve policy makers are expected to lower their benchmark rate at the conclusion of their two-day meeting today to guarantee the economy strengthens enough to create jobs.
The economy has lost 342,000 jobs over the last six months, and the unemployment rate has risen to 6.1 percent, the highest in more than eight years. The number of people who said jobs are plentiful now fell to 11.4 percent from 12.3 percent in May. That may explain the decline in the index measuring attitudes about the current economy, which fell to 64.9 from 67.3 for the second consecutive monthly drop.
The divergence in the current conditions and expectations index is similar to that after the Persian Gulf war in 1991. In December 1991, the current conditions index fell to 22.5, the lowest since February 1983.
By March 1993, the current conditions index had risen to 42.1. In contrast, the expectations index rose to 100.7 in March 1991 from 55.3 two months earlier.
The Conference Board's report showed the number of people expecting more jobs to become available six months from now rose to 19 percent in June, the highest in a year, from 17.9 percent, while the number of people expecting business conditions to improve rose to 23.9 percent from 22.8 percent a month earlier.
"While postwar euphoria has dissipated, falling gasoline prices, low mortgage rates, impending tax cuts and rising equity markets have buoyed consumers' spirits despite sluggish labor markets," said Steven Wood, principal economist at Insight Economics in Walnut Creek, Calif.
So far, consumers are in no rush to spend. In the next six months, 5.9 percent of Americans surveyed for the Conference Board's report said they planned to buy new cars, down from 7.7 percent last month, and 3 percent said they planned to buy a new home, down from 3.8 percent. 
One reason is that the number of people expecting incomes to rise over the next six months fell to 16.9 percent in June from 17.1 percent in May. 

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumer Confidence"Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100. June: 83.5May: 83.6April: 81.0 (Source: Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); PSYCHOGRAPHICS (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); DESERT STORM (65%); GASOLINE MARKETS (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; HIRING AND PROMOTION; HOUSING; SALES; AUTOMOBILES; INCOME; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



621 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Other Countries Outline Program to Curb Carbon Emissions 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24 

 BODY:
An array of industrialized and developing countries agreed today on the outline of a cooperative research program aimed at capturing and storing carbon dioxide, the main smokestack emission linked to global warming.
 The agreement came halfway through a three-day conference in McLean, Va., organized by the Bush administration, which has argued for more than a year that a technological breakthrough will be needed to stabilize levels of so-called greenhouse gases that trap heat in the atmosphere. 
 A buildup of those gases has been blamed by many scientists for most of a 50-year warming trend that could raise sea levels and disrupt climate patterns if emissions are not reduced. Most industrialized countries have ratified the Kyoto Protocol, a binding treaty that would require reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. It awaits ratification by Russia to take effect. 
The Bush administration has rejected that approach, saying climate science remains too uncertain to justify mandatory measures. It favors voluntary programs for curbing growth in the gases and long-term research on new nonpolluting energy sources or ways to sop up emissions from the burning of fossil fuels like oil, natural gas and coal.
"Regardless of what target you choose," Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said, "no goal is going to be achieved unless we develop the new technologies to get there."
One justification for pursuing that approach, administration officials and independent experts at the meeting said, is a projection that 90 percent of the increased demand for electricity worldwide in the next half-century will be met by burning fossil fuels. The administration wants to find ways to continue using coal, which remains plentiful and cheap, without adding to the atmosphere's burden of greenhouse gases.
At the meeting, officials from the United States, the European Union, Canada, Australia, Russia, Japan, China, India and several other countries said they planned to sign a charter on Thursday under which they would coordinate research projects on the process, called carbon sequestration.
Energy experts from private environmental groups who attended the conference said that devising such techniques was important, but added that without binding limits on emissions, there would be no impetus for power generators to use modernized equipment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (87%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); WEATHER (77%); TRENDS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (67%); ENERGY DEMAND (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (56%) WEATHER; CARBON DIOXIDE; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; GLOBAL WARMING; RESEARCH 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REVKIN, ANDREW C 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); CANADA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



622 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Stocks Little Changed as Investors Await Fed Rate Action

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Investors made few moves yesterday ahead of a decision on interest rates, leaving blue chips moderately higher and technology stocks narrowly lower in a light trading session. 
 A mixed batch of corporate and economic news, including a sales warning from Advanced Micro Devices and a better-than-expected reading on consumer confidence, gave investors added reason to take a wait-and-see approach. 
 Investors were anticipating that the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee would announce today that it is once again lowering rates to stimulate the economy. Analysts say that expectation has already been factored into the market's rallies over the last few weeks and that investors at this point are more concerned with what the Fed has to say about the economy's health. 
"What are significant are the Fed's comments about what they say they see as far as economic growth and the risk of deflation," said Brian Bush, director of equity research at Stephens Inc. in Little Rock, Ark. "Since the Fed brought up the risk of deflation in their last meeting, I think investors will want to see their assessment as to how real that perceived risk is." 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 36.90 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 9,109.85. The market's broader gauges were mixed. The Nasdaq composite index fell 5.14 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,605.61. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.81 points, or 0.2 percent, to 983.45. 
Wall Street's primary focus was the Fed, which began a two-day meeting yesterday and will deliver a decision on interest rates today. 
The Fed said last month that the economy was poised to recover in the second half of the year, but also that another cut could be in the offing because of the threat of deflation. In deflationary economies, unemployment worsens and the demand for products slackens. 
"What we are looking for tomorrow is confirmation of what the Fed has already told us," said John Caldwell, chief equity strategist for the McDonald Financial Group, a unit of Cleveland-based KeyCorp. 
If the Fed does reduce borrowing costs, it would be the 13th time it has done so since the beginning of 2001, and it would bring interest rates to their lowest level since the 1950's. 
The Conference Board said yesterday that its consumer confidence index was stable in June, reflecting a more upbeat mood about the economy and the stock market's longer-term prospects even in the face of a still difficult business climate. 
The board, a private research group, reported that the index crept back to 83.5 from a revised 83.6 in May, better than the reading of 82 that analysts had forecast. 
Kroger rose 93 cents, to $16.83, on quarterly profits that were a penny a share higher than Wall Street had predicted. 
BellSouth climbed 47 cents, to $27.49, after announcing it was increasing its quarterly dividend to 23 cents from 21 cents. 
Merrill Lynch advanced 92 cents, to $46.64, after Prudential Securities raised its recommendation on the stock to buy from hold. 
But Advanced Micro Devices fell 28 cents, to $6.31, after cutting its second-quarter sales estimate to $615 million from $715 million. It cited deterioration in the personal computer and handset markets in Asia.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Soar
(By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury bond prices rose yesterday amid divisions among economists about whether the Federal Reserve would cut its target benchmark rate a quarter-point or a half-point at a monetary policy meeting that ends today.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 19/32, to a price of 103 5/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 3.25 percent from 3.32 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond jumped 17/32, to 116 22/32. The bond's yield dropped to 4.33 percent from 4.40 percent on Monday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.938
High Rate: 0.800
Coupon Yield: 0.811
Low Rate: 0.750
Median Rate: 0.790
Total applied for: $33,304,140
Accepted: $14,356,292
Noncompetitive: $54,099
The four-week bills mature July 24, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); DEFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: STEPHENS INC (69%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%); KEYCORP (52%)

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%); KEY (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



623 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 399 words

PERSON: Gladys Heldman 

HEADLINE: Gladys Heldman, 81, a Leader In Promoting Womens Tennis 

BYLINE:  By LENA WILLIAMS

 BODY:
Gladys Heldman, an instrumental figure in the formation of women's professional tennis, died Sunday at her home in Sante Fe, N.M. She was 81.
 The Sante Fe Police Department reported that Ms. Heldman died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. The police report said she had been experiencing health difficulties. 
 Ms. Heldman, the founder, publisher and editor of World Tennis magazine, began playing tennis at age 25. As an amateur, she was ranked No. 1 in Texas. She competed in the United States National Championships four times and at Wimbledon in 1954.
Off the court, Ms. Heldman was an indomitable force. She started World Tennis magazine in 1953 as a forum for the sport's views and problems. During its early years, the magazine was a one-woman operation, with Ms. Heldman as editor in chief, layout editor, art director and advertising director. She sold the magazine toCBS Publications in 1972.
The magazine helped transform Ms. Heldman into an advocate for women's tennis and one of the most influential people in the game.
In 1970, she used her status to help nine of the top women's players, led by Billie Jean King and Rosie Casals, form their own pro tour.
She arranged for the Houston Racquet Club to sponsor a tournament and had nearly all the players in the group sign $1 contracts with World Tennis to play in the tournament. Heldman persuaded her friend Joseph Cullman, chairman of Philip Morris, to donate prize money and sponsor five tournaments.
Despite suspensions and economic sanctions, the women's pro tour evolved into the Virginia Slims tour.
"Without Gladys, there wouldn't be women's professional tennis," King said in a statement Monday. "When I accepted that $1 contract from Gladys more than 30 years ago, I knew we were all part of something special and that women's tennis had been changed forever because of her vision."
Gladys Medalie Heldman was born May 13, 1922, in New York City. Her father, George Z. Medalie, was a New York lawyer and judge. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Stanford University, she married Julius Heldman, a former United States junior tennis champion, in 1942.
The Heldmans' daughters, Carrie and Julie, were accomplished players; Julie was ranked as high as No. 5 in the world in 1969 and 1974.
Ms. Heldman was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1979. She is survived by her husband, her daughters and three grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gladys Heldman with players on the newly formed women's pro tennis tour in 1970. Front, from left, Judy Dalton, Kerry Melville, Rosie Casals, Ms. Heldman and Kristy Pigeon; back, Valerie Ziegenfuss, Billie Jean King, Nancy Richey and Peaches Bartkowicz. (International Tennis Hall of Fame Archive) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (96%); SPORTS (96%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); WOMEN (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (76%); RANKINGS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SHOOTINGS (73%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (72%); PUBLISHING (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL TENNIS HALL OF FAME (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Sports 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



624 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: RECONSTRUCTION; 
Crime and Poor Security Hurt Relief Effort in Iraq, U.N. and American Officials Say

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 24 

 BODY:
United Nations and United States officials said today that getting emergency supplies of food, water and medicine to postwar Iraq had proved much more manageable than anticipated, but that rampant crime and lax security were hampering efforts to rebuild the country's damaged infrastructure.
 International officials and delegates convened here today to discuss the reconstruction challenges facing Iraq, to begin appeals for relief and reconstruction aid, and to lay the groundwork for what role other countries, through the United Nations, will play. The meeting came as the United Nations tried to regain its footing and its international standing after the fractious Security Council debates that preceded the American-led invasion of Iraq in March. 
 Reconstruction broadly refers to covering the most basic of human needs that still elude a large portion of Iraq's 24 million people: electricity to charge a light bulb, water to quench a thirst, hospitals to handle a medical emergency, and a classroom in which to educate a child.
Andrew S. Natsios, director of the United States Agency for International Development, said he was pleased with how quickly administrators have been able to move into the reconstruction phase of the occupation and said that "there is a midterm goal of getting the public services -- electricity, water, sanitation -- stood up so that they're functional in the country because so many things are dependent on them."
But, Mr. Natsios noted, "we can't do our work unless there's security." 
He said that security in northern Iraq was relatively good but that Baghdad "is the most problematic at this point."
He laid blame for Baghdad's problems on a cadre of former members of the Hussein government, disgruntled police officers, and former Baath Party members intent on sabotaging security efforts.
Mr. Natsios' views were largely shared by Mark Malloch Brown, head of the United Nations Development Program, which sponsored the meeting today, although he was more cautious in his assessment.
"In any country where 60 percent of the population is dependent on food rations and where urban services are disrupted, you can never really relax on the humanitarian side," he said. "But it's right that one's real focus should be on the reconstruction."
Mr. Brown said Iraq's crime problem was fostered by demobilized Iraqi soldiers without jobs or incomes who have taken to the streets in frustration. He added that a transition from an American occupation to an Iraqi-led government would ease political tension.
"Humanitarian is a hearts business and reconstruction is a minds business," he said. "The importance of today is that there is a turning of the page and a common recognition that moving toward an Iraqi government supported by a functioning, reformed Iraqi economy is what unites the international community."
The United Nations has raised nearly $2 billion for aid to Iraq since March and is appealing for another $259 million for food and medical supplies to meet the country's needs through the end of the year.
According to a draft of a United Nations briefing circulated today at the meeting, one in five Iraqis lives in "chronic poverty." Since the Persian Gulf war of 1991, the report said, about 70 percent of Iraq's water and sanitation services have been seriously impaired.
Congress has allocated $2.4 billion for Iraqi reconstruction, and Mr. Natsios visited the United Nations today to arrange for a needs assessment program for Iraq and to schedule a pledging conference for this fall to raise more money. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); HOSPITALS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (60%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; FOREIGN AID; FOOD; WATER; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CRIME AND CRIMINALS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%) UNITED NATIONS; AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L; BROWN, MARK MALLOCH; NATSIOS, ANDREW S 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



625 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: THE SUPREME COURT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; 
Impact on Universities Will Range From None to a Lot

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Universities across the country began grappling yesterday with the meaning of Monday's Supreme Court rulings on affirmative action.
 For the University of Michigan, the rulings will definitely mean a revision of its admissions procedures for undergraduates, although what form that will take is unclear. For other campuses, the predictions range from no change in California, where the state Constitution bars universities from taking race into account, to significant change in Texas, where the 1996 Hopwood court decision barring the use of affirmative action is now inoperative. 
 "For us, it's a good thing," said Larry R. Faulkner, president of the University of Texas. 
At most universities, officials said that changes would probably take weeks or months to take shape, but that they would probably be in place by the fall. The court barred mechanical formulas that take race into account, but endorsed the concept of affirmative action.
Mary Sue Coleman, Michigan's president, said that the university would abandon the practice of awarding 20 points to minority applicants that the court had disallowed, and make its process more individualistic and more holistic, as the court directed. 
Dr. Coleman said that the university, which receives about 25,000 applications for 5,000 seats in its freshmen class, reviewed many files individually now, after using a point system as a primary screen. But there will probably be more applications to read under a new system, she said. And while faculty members might take on some of the reading, Michigan is likely to have to expand its admissions staff.
"We may be spending more money -- I know that," Dr. Coleman said in a telephone interview. "But for us, since the court has said 'O.K., here's what you need to do,' we'll gladly do it. The court has laid out the path. I'm just so confident we can do it."
Some universities that admit undergraduates on two paths -- one on pure academic measures and the other by taking race, ethnicity and other student characteristics into account -- were less certain about the changes they might have to make.
Joseph Marshall, dean of enrollment at the University of Massachusetts, said he believed that his campus's limited point system might still be acceptable.
The campus, which received more than 25,000 applications for 5,000 spots in its freshman class, admits two-thirds of its freshmen based strictly on their SAT scores and grade-point averages in high school. But then it applies a point system in admitting the remaining third of the class. Among the categories that earn points are race, military service, coming from a foreign country and athletic or musical ability. 
"Up to this point, I have felt comfortable using this model," Mr. Marshall said yesterday. "And I don't necessarily feel uncomfortable now. I don't know yet whether we will change anything, but I want to get a legal review."
At Ohio State University, which uses a similar model, Mabel Freeman, assistant vice president for undergraduate admissions, said that her office was likely to have to make changes. It admits about 80 percent of its students -- including more than half of its minority students -- based on five academic measures, including class rank, grade-point average and scores on the ACT or SAT. 
In accepting the rest of the class, Ohio State looks at factors like leadership, work experience, community service and a prospective student's contribution to diversity, including economic, racial or geographic. Work experience could add 15 points; being an underrepresented minority brought 25. The cutoff score for admission this year was 139.
"Yes, we do points -- we did do points," Dr. Freeman said yesterday, amending her comments as she spoke. 
"We thought until this week that we were being consistent with Bakke," she said, referring to the Supreme Court's ruling 25 years ago on the use of affirmative action in college admissions. 
Dr. Freeman said that she did not know whether the current approach would work under the court's new rulings, and that she was seeking legal advice so she could be sure the university was in compliance.
At the University of Texas, the Hopwood court decision ended consideration of race or ethnicity in admissions. But a state law passed after that decision gives any students in the top 10 percent of their class the right to attend the university. 
Dr. Faulkner said that with some effort, the university had been able to raise the number of Hispanic and African-American students to about the levels they were before Hopwood or higher, and that he planned to retain those practices. But he said the university could do even better by adding affirmative action.
"We may be able to add the best practices in affirmative action to the best of our race-neutral approaches and come out with an overall package that would be better," he said.
Dr. Faulkner said the court's decision this week would make an even bigger difference to the university's graduate and professional schools, which have seen their minority representation decrease.
"We carry out a holistic review now for a large fraction of our freshmen class applicants and for all of our graduate and professional school applicants," Dr. Faulkner said, "so we have a process that can be modified to include the kinds of considerations that are now permissible under the Supreme Court's decision. We are not talking about a complete revamping of what we do."
One limitation, he added, is that the students entitled to enter under the state's 10 percent rule have become a larger and larger portion of the entering class. This fall, they will account for about three quarters of the class -- up from less than 60 percent a year ago -- and that leaves the university less discretion in filling the class. Dr. Faulkner said he had asked the Legislature to cap the number of entitlement seats to 55 percent or 60 percent of each class.
Another new question for universities this week is how the Supreme Court decisions will affect summer programs and scholarships for minority students.
"Because of the compelling interest in diversity that was stated in the decision, anything one is doing to recruit and attract and mentor minority students should be in line with that compelling interest," said Nancy Cantor, chancellor at the University of Illinois.
Dr. James C. Moeser, chancellor of the University of North Carolina, said he could not answer definitively, but that he, too, was optimistic.
"The court said the government has a compelling interest in promoting diversity in American education," Dr. Moeser said. "This is what we're doing. These minority summer programs are just proactive steps to identify outstanding students and to overcome the barrier that they think Chapel Hill is either inaccessible or unobtainable." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (94%); SUPREME COURTS (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (79%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (79%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); GRADES & GRADING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; MINORITIES; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; BLACKS; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS; LAW SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%) SUPREME COURT (US); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

PERSON: COLEMAN, MARY SUE; ARENSON, KAREN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) ; CALIFORNIA; TEXAS

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



626 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: At a Hearing, Ostrich Plumes And Pleas for Freer Cabarets 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Opponents of New York City's longstanding cabaret laws, some dressed in fishnet stockings and ostrich plumes, spoke at a forum about the laws yesterday evening, carrying signs with slogans like "The Waltz is Illegal in New York City."
 The six-hour hearing at New York Law School was attended by about 190 people, most critical of the laws. It began a process of gathering facts, complaints and suggestions about the 77-year-old laws. The commissioner of consumer affairs, Gretchen Dykstra, who has called the laws outdated, said yesterday that it was too early to say what direction the city would go. 
 Under the laws, clubs, bars and restaurants that offer dancing must have two-year licenses, which cost $600 to $1,000, based on capacity.
The city has 332 licensed cabarets, and has padlocked 11 unlicensed ones this year. From 1999 to 2003, the city closed 20.
Sebastian Holzmeister, who owns the Lunatarium, a club in the Dumbo section of Brooklyn, complained at the hearing, "As soon as I have two or more people engaged in a synchronized activity, I have to obtain a cabaret license."
He added, "You should be free to dance; you should be able to move your body."
Eric Demby, of Legalize Dancing NYC, a group that has been lobbying to eliminate the cabaret laws, said that until the laws were changed, the Department of Consumer Affairs should stop enforcing them. "This is an issue that has hampered the culture and economy of New York City." 
Earlier, four panels, made up of representatives of restaurants, the Manhattan Chamber of Commerce and cabarets and clubs along with members of the City Council, debated the laws. The panel discussions often veered from cabarets to talk of the smoking ban, noisy patrons, club security and other issues.
James Capalino, who represents several Manhattan nightclubs, said the discussion foreshadowed broad night-life regulations for bars and clubs. The real issue is not dancing, Mr. Capalino said, but how big and loud a club is and its proximity to residential neighborhoods.
"This administration is going to move in the direction of some sort of legislation of night life," Mr. Capalino said in a panel discussion. "It's almost inevitable that it's going to happen."
David Rabin, president of the New York Nightlife Association, said changing the cabaret laws would have little effect on night life because of zoning and building and fire codes. But Mr. Rabin said he worried that more restrictive laws would further harm already struggling clubs.
"It sounds to me like they're trying to broaden the regulations at exactly the wrong time," he said.
Ms. Dykstra said in a telephone interview before the hearing, "I don't think we've necessarily heard a case for overhauling the cabaret laws."
Few on the panels praised the existing cabaret laws. Norman Siegel, a civil rights lawyer, said the laws restrict the First Amendment rights of dancers and should be scrapped.
Jen Miller, 30, who lives on the Lower East Side and is a member of the Dance Liberation Front, another advocacy group, invoked not the Constitution, but the Declaration of Independence. 
"I'm here as a dancer. And as a citizen I have a right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. And what is the pursuit of happiness if not dancing?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas Ballinger, right, of the club Webster Hall spoke yesterday at a hearing on cabaret laws. Beside him was Shawn Schwartz of Halcyon. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ZONING (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); SMOKING (73%); CITIES (73%); LOBBYING (70%); SMOKING BANS (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



627 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Oracle, in Pursuit of PeopleSoft, Relents on Merger

BYLINE:  By LAURIE J. FLYNN 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 24 

 BODY:
Showing signs that it is serious about its hostile bid for PeopleSoft, Oracle said today that it would drop its objection to PeopleSoft's latest move to acquire J. D. Edwards, a rival maker of business software. Oracle also left open the possibility that it would increase its $6.3 billion bid for PeopleSoft.
 Last week, PeopleSoft increased its bid for J. D. Edwards, which had been a stock-for-stock deal, by offering a combination of stock and cash worth roughly $1.75 billion. That merger offer does not require the approval of PeopleSoft shareholders and has been welcomed by J. D. Edwards executives. 
 Oracle, by dropping its objection to that amended bid, is waiving one of the terms it set out as part of its offer for PeopleSoft, which many in the industry initially viewed as an attempt to interrupt the J. D. Edwards deal. Even so, Oracle's message today was anything but conciliatory.
An Oracle spokesman said the company reluctantly altered its earlier position in hope of coaxing PeopleSoft into discussions. "Although we have provided this waiver, we continue to view the amended merger agreement as an unlawful device to deprive PeopleSoft shareholders of their right to vote with respect to the J. D. Edwards merger," said Jim Finn, an Oracle spokesman. "We hope that with this waiver, PeopleSoft will finally agree to meet with us, as their shareholders are demanding." 
PeopleSoft executives said Oracle's shift in position on the J. D. Edwards deal was irrelevant. "Oracle is just blowing smoke again," said Steve Swasey, a spokesman for PeopleSoft. "Removing the waiver means nothing when Oracle still has pending litigation in Delaware that opposes the PeopleSoft-J. D. Edwards transaction." 
Last week, Oracle sued PeopleSoft in Delaware, arguing that the company was not acting in the best interest of its shareholders and demanding that it rescind its amended offer for J. D. Edwards. 
Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle's chief executive, said today at a conference in London that he had not ruled out the possibility of increasing Oracle's offer. But for now, he said, the company is standing by its offer of $19.50 for each share of PeopleSoft. "Never say never," Mr. Ellison responded when asked if Oracle would raise its bid. But he added, "We think the offer we have on the table is fully valued and very fair." 
Government regulators in several states convened via teleconference today to discuss the impact of an Oracle acquisition of PeopleSoft on consumers in their states. Last week, Connecticut announced that it had filed a lawsuit against Oracle, contending that an Oracle takeover of PeopleSoft would violate the state's antitrust laws and would damage the state's economy.
While it is unclear how many states are actively investigating the proposed merger, the deal is getting a lot of attention because many state governments are PeopleSoft customers. Connecticut, for example, is finishing the first stage of a $100 million installation of PeopleSoft software products in state offices.
"The states are themselves affected purchasers," said Gary Reback, an antitrust lawyer with Carr & Ferrell who is working with PeopleSoft. "Normally, the state attorneys general would just need to find out if their consumers are affected." Mr. Reback said nearly a quarter of PeopleSoft's sales are to the public sector, including many public university systems.
Richard Blumenthal, the Connecticut attorney general, said he was encouraged by the number of states interested in opposing Oracle, though he would not elaborate on which ones may join his state in filing lawsuits. 
Mike Viesca, a spokesman for Greg Abbott, the Texas attorney general, called today's conference call "a first-round routine call" to discuss the states' concerns.
In a separate statement, Mr. Abbott said the state had not taken any legal action to block Oracle's proposed takeover, but that it was watching developments closely. "We take great interest any time a situation threatens competition and puts the customer, whether an individual or government entity, in jeopardy of paying higher prices for a particular product," Mr. Abbott said.
A spokesman for the attorney general of California, where both Oracle and PeopleSoft have their headquarters, said that the office was also monitoring developments. 
PeopleSoft and Oracle may know more about whether the hostile takeover will face regulatory hurdles by Monday, the deadline for the Justice Department to request more information from Oracle about the competitive implications of the proposed acquisition.
A request typically indicates that federal regulators are beginning an investigation into a matter, Mr. Reback said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (91%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); LITIGATION (87%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (57%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLESOFT INC; EDWARDS, J D, & CO; PEOPLESOFT INC 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (58%) FLYNN, LAURIE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



628 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL RELA ESTATE; 
Finally, a Ballpark Gets a Neighbor

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Tex. 

 BODY:
Since 1994, the red-brick stadium that is home to the Texas Rangers has loomed majestically over more than 200 acres of parking lots and vacant land that were part of the development package. But now the ballpark is about to get its first neighbor: a division of Siemens, the German electronics company.
 The $48 million project currently under construction will occupy 14.1 acres and consist of two curved three-story stone and glass buildings, with 180,000 square feet of offices and 70,000 square feet for research and development. 
 The national real estate company Trammell Crow, which is based in Dallas, will own the buildings and lease them to Siemens Dematic Postal Automation, a designer and manufacturer of mail-sorting systems.
The project has prompted more interest than a building of its size usually does because voters in this suburban city midway between Dallas and Fort Worth have been waiting nearly a decade for the ballpark to attract the interest of developers. 
In 1991, voters overwhelmingly approved a half-cent sales-tax increase to finance $135 million of the cost of a new $190 million, 48,000-seat stadium for the Rangers. In promoting the sales-tax referendum, city officials and the previous owners of the team, led by a former oil executive named George W. Bush, said that the stadium would bring economic benefits to Arlington, including commercial development of the area adjacent to the ballpark.
Four years after the stadium opened, the Dallas billionaire Thomas O. Hicks bought the Rangers for $250 million, more than three times the amount Mr. Bush and his partners paid in 1989. The deal included the right to develop 217 acres around the ballpark.
Mr. Hicks's company, the Southwest Sports Group, also has a half-interest in the proposed Victory development next to the American Airlines Center, the new hockey and basketball arena near downtown Dallas, and is trying to develop 65 acres around a minor-league ballpark that it just opened in Frisco, a city of 58,000 just 24 miles north of Dallas. Both the arena and the ballpark received large public subsidies.
Many sports economists are skeptical of whether stadiums ever serve as engines of economic development, but they are particularly dubious of arenas located in suburbs. "If you have a suburban site and surround it with a sea of asphalt, you really militate against economic spillover," said Robert A. Baade, an economist at Lake Forest College who has studied the economic impact of stadiums.
Siemens's broker, Rick Hughes, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield of Texas, acknowledged that it was hard to persuade corporate tenants to move near the ballpark. "One of the biggest issues has been that people see this as a parking lot, not a business park," Mr. Hughes said during a recent tour of the Siemens site. "We've broken the mold."
Siemens has had a presence in Arlington since the 1960's, but needed to modernize its office and research space to continue to attract employees, said Robert B. Mawhirt, president of Siemens Real Estate, which manages more than half of the parent company's real estate assets. He said the company chose the Arlington site for many reasons, including its proximity to Interstate 30, which connects Fort Worth and Dallas, and to Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport.
He said the ballpark would be a perk for the company's employees. "Why would a high-tech company want to be near a ballpark?" he said. "Why wouldn't we?"
To keep Siemens from moving to another city, Arlington came up with a $4.5 million package of tax abatements and incentives. "On an incentive basis," Mr. Mawhirt said, "we got a very good offer." Siemens also got Trammell Crow to buy three of its old industrial buildings in Arlington, with a total of 554,000 square feet, said Scott A. Krikorian, an executive vice president for the developer.
Siemens hopes eventually to build another 175,000 square feet of space on a 8.4-acre site at the ballpark, but initially, at least, the company does not expect to add significantly to its current workforce of 600 employees, Mr. Mawhirt said.
As a result of the Siemens deal, said Wes Jury, president of the Arlington Chamber of Commerce, his organization is talking to four other companies about building at the ballpark. "Interest has certainly heightened," he said.
For Arlington, a city of 330,000 where the median family income in 1999 was $56,000, having a major league team -- even one that has been last in its division for three consecutive seasons -- has unquestionably been a source of civic pride. But some people are bitter over the slow pace of development at the ballpark.
C. Bruce Deramus, the chairman of a group called Concerned Taxpayers of Arlington, which says it has 350 members, said the stadium had not delivered on its promises. "You've got your typical ballpark jobs," Mr. Deramus said. "That's all that's developed there now."
Richard Greene, who was the mayor when the referendum passed, said, however, that development near the ballpark was never expected to sprout overnight. "No one ever said that was going to happen in the first 10 years of the ballpark's life," he said. "We didn't build it so that there would be real estate development. We built it to keep the Rangers in Arlington."
Michael Cramer, the president of Southwest Sports, said that Mr. Bush and his partners had not focused their attention on commercial development. "Real estate was not their first priority," he said.
After acquiring the Rangers, Southwest Sports turned to David M. Schwartz, the Washington architect who designed the ballpark, to develop a master plan for the site. But by the time the plan was completed, Mr. Cramer said, the economic boom was nearly over. Another drawback, he said, was that Arlington lacked the type of upscale housing that would draw corporate executives.
Mr. Hicks said he was still hopeful that an "urban streetscape" would one day surround the ballpark. "Siemens, we hope, will be the catalyst of demand," he said. "We kind of view it as a 10-year project. It will kind of create its own life as it goes along."
In the more immediate future, he said, Southwest Sports has higher hopes for its development plans in Frisco, which is right off the Dallas North Tollway in an area that is attracting affluent young families at a rapid pace. In April, Southwest Sports opened the 10,500-seat Dr Pepper/Seven-Up Ballpark in Frisco, where its minor-league team, the RoughRiders, is based. The City of Frisco paid $22.7 million of the ballpark's $28 million cost.
Also designed by Mr. Schwartz, who was the architect of the American Airlines Center in Dallas as well, the new Double-A ballfield is intended as the centerpiece of a mixed-use development that will include offices and condominiums overlooking the ballfield.
Mr. Hicks's company has also invested in Victory, another mixed-use project being developed by Hillwood, a company owned by H. Ross Perot Jr., the son of the former presidential candidate. Hillwood spent more than $100 million to reclaim a 65-acre brownfield site opposite the American Airlines Center, with the intention of building 600 residential units, 550,000 square feet of retail space and 500,000 square feet of office space, said Jonas Woods, the company's president.
It took nearly a year to get the City of Dallas to agree to earmark $43 million in tax-increment financing for the project, in which the city issues bonds to be paid back through taxes generated from rising property values. By then, the Dallas economy had soured, and it was clear that the project was too ambitious to do at once, he said. 
In March, the company's development partner, Related Urban Development of New York, withdrew from the project. "They weren't willing to phase it in," Mr. Woods said, "so we stepped back into the role of developer."
The current office vacancy rate in Dallas is 26.8 percent, according to Cushman & Wakefield. Yet Mr. Woods said he hoped to begin construction by early next year on the first phase, including a 251-room W hotel with 94 condominiums on top, 25,000 square feet of retail space and 50,000 square feet of office space.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Siemens, the electronics maker, is building two curved stone and glass buildings next to the Texas Rangers stadium, seen in the background. (Jarold Cabluck for The New York Times) Map of Arlington shows the location of the ballpark. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); BASEBALL (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (73%); SUBURBS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); TAX INCREASES (72%); ELECTRONICS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); CITIES (68%); APPROVALS (67%); SALES TAX (67%); BASKETBALL (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (60%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; BASEBALL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS 

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (85%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%); TRAMMELL CROW CO (57%); DEMATIC GMBH (56%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (55%) TEXAS RANGERS; SIEMENS AG; TRAMMELL CROW CO 

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (85%); SIE (LSE) (85%); SIE (FRA) (85%); SIE (BIT) (85%); SI (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (85%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (57%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS333923 OVERHEAD TRAVELING CRANE, HOIST & MONORAIL SYSTEM MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333922 CONVEYOR & CONVEYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (56%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (56%) SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) TEXAS

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



629 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Employees of Baltimore Sun Approve a Labor Contract 

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
Editorial and business employees of The Baltimore Sun voted last night to accept a four-year contract despite an earlier announcement from their union's bargaining committee that it could not recommend the pact.
 About half an hour before a critical deadline, union members voted 319 to 102 to accept the contract, which goes into effect today with a one-time $1,500 signing bonus and "pay for performance" raises partly replacing across-the-board pay increases for all employees. 
 The contract negotiations were the first to take place in Baltimore since the Tribune Company bought The Sun and other Times Mirror newspapers across the country in 2000. They were closely watched because they came at a time when, with the economy ebbing, Tribune is trying to increase profits and also planning to buy more newspapers and television stations under the federal government's new rules permitting increased cross-ownership of media properties. Tribune's past record with striking newspaper workers is stark; it endured long walkouts at The Chicago Tribune in the 1980's and at The Daily News in New York in the early 1990's. 
Last night's contract approval came at a price. Moments after the vote was counted, union members approved by acclamation a resolution that harshly criticized the Tribune Company for its tactics during the negotiations. "The guild members of The Baltimore Sun accept this contract under bitter protest and condemn Tribune Company for its demeaning and destructive conduct," the resolution, read aloud by union officials, said in part. The company negotiated "in bad faith," the resolution continued, "hiring scabs to replace loyal Sun workers."
Talks had ended at 2 a.m. yesterday and did not resume until 4 p.m. The management of the paper made what it called its final offer about 8:30 p.m. Some aspects of the offer, including the signing bonus, were set to expire at 11:59. Copies of the documents were distributed to 600 members of the Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild, meeting at a local theater, for consideration. About 10:30, the union's bargaining committee announced that it could not recommend that other members support the contract, said Candus Thomson, a reporter who attended the meeting.
The tide turned about half an hour before the deadline, largely because union members recognized that management would not make any more concessions. The newspaper had already dropped one of its more contentious demands, that employees could be let go based on skill and ability rather than seniority, earlier in the day. Both sides had reached a tentative agreement on retirement benefits, and the remaining issue -- that of merit raises versus ordinary raises -- remained.
Under the contract, no raises will be given in the first year of the contract. In the second year, all union members will receive the same raise: $24 per week. In the third and fourth years, money for raises will be parceled out in two ways: $10 a week for all employees and $14 to $15 a week for merit pay, to be awarded by newsroom managers.
"We were able to find a way to guarantee wages as well as to create a pay-for-performance plan" to encourage exceptional work, said Linda Geeson, director of marketing and communications for The Sun. She called the talks "a tough negotiation," adding: "Change is always hard. We're very pleased that the union has decided to embrace change and move forward with us."
Even before the vote was cast, Ms. Thomson characterized the proposed contract as a Hobson's choice. "Management has got the gun to our heads," she said. "We looked at what Seattle got, and Detroit, and The Daily News. It's a real grim picture out there."
To some members, the signing bonus represented a windfall that was not likely to come around again. It had been increased this week from $1,000. But others objected to the contract's provisions.
Walter F. Roche, an investigative reporter for The Sun, who is a union member, called the proposal "a terrible contract" and said that despite the raises, the pay outlined in the contract "would leave us way behind."
A federal mediator had been participating in talks between the two sides for three weeks but had been unable to bring the talks to a conclusion.
"They've really ratcheted this up," Ms. Thomson said, referring to the Tribune Company. "We caucused for a while, and then they said there would be no stopping the clock. We asked that the federal mediator be involved to a greater extent, and they said no. The federal mediator also asked to be involved more, and they said no."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); APPROVALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); MERIT PAY (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); STRIKES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BAD FAITH (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%) NEWSPAPERS; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; BONUSES 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE SUN (NEWSPAPER); TRIBUNE CO; NEWSPAPER GUILD, THE (TNG) 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



630 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Hardware: Infocus Loss To Widen; Falling Sales Cited 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 The InFocus Corporation, the world's largest maker of multimedia projectors, said yesterday that its second-quarter loss would widen from the first quarter as sales declined on lower prices and the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome. Sales may fall as much as 15 percent in the period, the company said in a statement. 
InFocus's first-quarter loss swelled to $12.5 million from $7.9 million. Sales fell 8 percent, to $145.1 million. InFocus, whose shares are listed in Oslo after the company bought Proxima of Norway in 2000, said sales were hampered by weak economies, the war in Iraq, SARS and intensifying competition because of oversupply. The company has also been hurt as clients increasingly opt for cheaper products. Shares of InFocus fell 5.2 kroner, or 13 percent, to 35 kroner in Oslo trading. They have dropped 13 percent this year. In Nasdaq trading, shares fell 96 cents, or about 17 percent, to $4.75. Sales were also slowed as Chinese authorities shut down the company's import operation in the country after an investigation. InFocus said it was working with authorities in China and the United States to resolve the matter.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Infocus share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SARS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%) SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME) 

COMPANY: INFOCUS CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: INFOCUS CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (94%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (94%) SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (69%) CHINA (91%); NORWAY (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



631 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Russian Economy Builds on 3 Years of Growth 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 24 

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin appears to be off to a strong start on his newly announced capitalist plan to double Russia's economy in a decade.
 In the first five months of this year, Russia's gross domestic product rose 7.1 percent, about double the rate of the comparable period last year. Oil and gas production, the locomotive of modern Russia's economy, is up 11.5 percent. Russia, which exports more oil than any nation except Saudi Arabia, is increasing its oil output this year for the fifth consecutive year. 
 The Russian Central Bank is forecasting a reversal of years of capital flight, with a net capital inflow of $2 billion in the second quarter.
Top government and World Trade Organization officials have predicted to reporters here in recent days that Russia will join the organization next year, joining the world's economic mainstream. The pro-Western shift seems to have considerable public support: in a poll of Russians that was conducted this month by the Public Opinion Foundation, 73 percent of respondents said they wanted to see Russia join the European Union.
Today, Mr. Putin started the first state visit by a Russian leader to Britain since 1874. The visit highlights Britain's having become the largest foreign investor in Russia, with two oil deals announced this year that amount to nearly $17 billion. During his four days in London, Mr. Putin is expected to preside over the signing of documents sealing the petroleum producer BP's investment of $6.75 billion to create Russia's third-largest oil company.
The recent economic numbers follow three years of solid growth, making Russia a confirmed member of a group of three major developing countries that are showing high growth. India is expecting to grow by 5 percent this year, Russia by 5.4 percent and China by 7 percent, as growth in Japan, the United States and Western Europe is expected to be marginal. Partly because of anemic growth opportunities in the world money centers, an influx of foreign capital has made Russia's RTS stock index jump by about one-third so far this year.
But beneath Russia's encouraging numbers, many analysts say, is an overdependence on oil and gas income.
"On first sight, everything is good," Christof H. Ruhl, the World Bank's chief economist in Russia, said in an interview. "But that does not mean that they will double in 10 years. There is a lack of diversification. This high growth is still tied to high oil prices."
With oil and gas sales accounting for about half of exports and about half the national budget, oil and gas contributed to a 23 percent jump in Russia's world trade in the first five months of this year, compared with the similar period in 2002. Because of high oil prices, Russia now exports almost double what it imports.
"The economy remains vulnerable to a downturn of oil prices," Anne O. Krueger, first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said Friday in a news conference here. While saying that Mr. Putin's goal of doubling the economy was realistic, she warned of "excessive regulation and corruption" and its "drag on private sector development." 
James A. Baker III, the Reagan-era secretary of state, expressed similar sentiments in a speech here last week to American and Russian business leaders. "Russia, in short, has come far," he said. "But huge challenges remain. Russia's core manufacturing sector remains in decline, with much of its infrastructure obsolete."
Russia's monopolies often give the country the look of a place where mediocrity is protected. According to research by the Brunswick UBS investment bank, eight conglomerates control 85 percent of Russia's largest 64 privatized companies.
"Despite Putin's reassuring words, the fact of the matter is that Russia's business world, under the surface, is still eyeball-deep in organized crime," The Russia Journal, an English-language daily read by foreigners here, warned last week in an editorial headlined "Killing With Impunity."
Changes in laws have created 40 million landowners. But Russia's farm production remains stagnant, millions of acres of arable land lie fallow, and Russia imports about 40 percent of its food.
While the country's leaders have accepted a central concept of supply economics, that lower tax rates can result in greater tax collection, a huge amount of the economy remains off the books. To encourage Russians to pay their taxes, the nation two years ago adopted a flat income tax of 13 percent.
With lowered taxes and four years of economic growth, Russians now have more money to spend, which has drawn the attention of foreign investors.
As food consumption increases, Tyson Foods Inc., the Arkansas meat producer, is considering buying a Russian poultry farm, and Metro, Germany's largest retailer, plans to invest $1.2 billion here. With Russians using their savings to remodel their Soviet-era apartments, Ikea, the Swedish furniture group, is spending $44 million to build two new furniture stores.
After personal incomes officially expanded by 14 percent last year, the General Electric Corporation set an ambitious goal to increase its Russian sales tenfold, to $3 billion, by 2010. With three million Muscovites owning cars, Goodyear is studying the purchase of a Russian tire manufacturer.
While stuck in traffic jams, Moscow's middle class can study billboards that confirm Moscow has become a standard stop on the world tours of major North American musicians. In large Cyrillic characters, advertisements announce concerts here this month by Julio Iglesias, Elton John, Diana Kroll and Engelbert Humperdinck.
With elections in December to decide control of the Parliament, Mr. Putin is working hard to push the new oil revenues through the state system into the pockets of the people. Unpaid state salaries are being paid up, and in October, 33 percent increases in state salaries are to take effect.
Last week the Duma, the lower house of Parliament, voted to abolish the 5 percent national sales tax and reduced the value-added tax by 10 percent.
With oil revenues high, economists predict that these measures will not knock the government off course in its efforts to reduce inflation to 12 percent, down from 15 percent last year. But the government could crank up public spending this fall to earn good will for the parliamentary elections.
All polls indicate that Mr. Putin will easily win another four-year term next March. But the December parliamentary elections remain a question mark, and the Communists have a chance of once again becoming Russia's dominant party. And Mr. Putin has been able to push through the Duma a series of free market economic changes because he has enjoyed a coalition majority that his predecessor never had.
Will Russia rise to meet the challenge of his 10-year plan? Mr. Putin responded Friday in a nationally televised news conference, "This won't be an easy task for Russia."
Speaking only days after meeting with President Bush in St. Petersburg, Mr. Putin sounded like a Russian Republican. He called for lower taxes, and for a program to "deregulate the economy and get the state out of areas where its presence is not justified and stifles economic activity."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Back on Track"Russia's economy has been recovering from its 1998 debt crisis and investors are beginning to return. Graph tracks: ECONOMIC GROWTHRussian Federation gross domestic product FOREIGN INVESTMENTQuarterly net flow of foreign currency into the Russian Federation by authorized banks (Sources: World Bank; Central Bank of the Russian Federation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%) BROOKE, JAMES; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) RUSSIA; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



632 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Voting and Running at Same Time Tests Six Democrats 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24 

 BODY:
Senators John Kerry and Bob Graham took the Senate floor on Friday to sharply criticize the major Medicare bill that is on the table, describing it as insufficient and riddled with gaps in insurance coverage.
 But when the Senate held a succession of votes over the past week to change the bill, those two Democratic presidential contenders and two equally ambitious colleagues, John Edwards and Joseph L. Lieberman, were often missing in action. Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards did not vote last week on any of the five initial efforts to alter the Medicare prescription drug plan that will no doubt figure in the presidential campaign. Mr. Graham voted on two and Mr. Lieberman just one. 
 The sporadic voting continued today as Mr. Edwards cast his first votes on the Medicare plan, weighing in on nine amendments. Mr. Lieberman voted once but missed eight other votes; Mr. Kerry and Mr. Graham missed all nine votes. 
The absences illustrate just one of the difficulties of running for president while keeping your day job.
"Occasionally it presents you with some tough choices," said Senator Kerry, of Massachusetts. "But once you have made the commitment to run for president, I think you have got to run."
The six members of Congress seeking the Democratic presidential nomination are finding that juggling legislative duties with a demanding national campaign can wreak havoc on schedules, touch off legislative one-upmanship, send voting records into a tailspin and disrupt sleep.
"I have long days and short nights so I am particularly grateful every week when the Sabbath comes," Mr. Lieberman, of Connecticut, said in telephone interview recently as he made a routine race to the airport, this time to head to a campaign appearance in Oklahoma.
Except for Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, all the Congressional candidates have missed votes. Republicans are keeping tabs and have posted the Democrats' attendance records on the Republican National Committee's Web site.
The committee's most recent count has Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri missing 89 percent of House votes this year as he pursues the White House. In the Senate, Mr. Kerry has missed 41 percent, Mr. Lieberman 26 percent, Mr. Edwards, of North Carolina, 20 percent and Mr. Graham, of Florida, 14 percent. The National Taxpayers Union has asked that the lawmakers return some pay -- $616.33 for each day absent.
It is not always the Congressional responsibilities that suffer; the senators in particular have had to discard carefully arranged campaign schedules on short notice to hurry back to Washington, most recently for tax votes when their presence was crucial in the closely divided Senate.
Mr. Kerry postponed a major health care policy speech to be on hand for one roll call. Aides to Mr. Edwards count at least four times since the start of the year that he canceled campaign events or returned to Washington for votes, including once when he took a hotel room near the Capitol rather than go home in the middle of the night and wake his family.
Though they are trying to set themselves apart, the candidates show some signs of a herd mentality when it comes to Congressional votes. "You don't want to be the only guy to go back," an adviser to one campaign said, "but if one goes back, I think they all go back."
Mr. Gephardt, the former House Democratic leader, has been the least visible of the Washington lawmakers. His spokesman, Erik Smith, said that was because his vote was rarely decisive in the House, where Democrats are significantly outnumbered.
Mr. Kucinich said he made it a point to cast every vote, though he said it often required a frantic mix of flight connections and catnaps as he hopped around the country on long weekends. "I don't think any of my constituents looking for a new job would be able to keep their existing job for too long if they didn't show up for it," Mr. Kucinich said.
The absences on the Medicare votes were glaring because the issue has such a high profile. Two Democratic amendments drew low levels of support that could have been raised by the attendance of the candidates, though their votes would not have changed the outcome.
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, who decided against making a presidential bid, conceded that absenteeism could be a concern, but he said no one had yet refused to return for a big vote. And Mr. Daschle said he saw an advantage in having Democratic lawmakers roaming the United States, speaking out on the economy, health care and foreign policy.
"It amplifies our ability to take our message to the country," he said. "Each one of those candidates has his own megaphone. And by and large, our message, regardless of candidate, is similar."
Congress has not been a particularly good platform from which to run for president in recent years, with the "Washington insider" image providing a handy line of attack for opponents. That, however, has not stopped lawmakers from trying.
In 1996, Senator Bob Dole, the Republican leader, left Congress to devote all his time to his candidacy, but that was after he had the Republican nomination nailed down. The Democratic contest is anything but settled, and some current Congressional contenders could be back fulltime early next year if not before.
Until then, the candidates are also trying to use their legislative platforms to aid their presidential drives, which can result in some friction. In mid-May, Mr. Edwards heralded his leadership in opposing offshore oil drilling, a position that has been popular with voters in key presidential states like California and Florida. His office released a letter showing how senators were uniting to fight a provision in the energy bill that they saw as a prelude to a push for new rigs.
Just one problem: Mr. Graham was circulating the letter and his staff was miffed that Mr. Edwards jumped the gun. "It stole a little bit of our thunder," said Paul Anderson, Mr. Graham's spokesman. 
Mike Briggs, a spokesman for Mr. Edwards, said that the letter was released in response to a request by a news organization and that Mr. Graham's office was informed. In the end, Mr. Edwards was not on hand when the disputed provision was upheld in a vote this month. He was campaigning in Tennessee.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senators John Kerry of Massachusetts, left, in Iowa on Monday, and Bob Graham of Florida oppose the Medicare bill but have missed several votes on proposed revisions because of campaign commitments. (Getty Images); (Sean Gallagher/Quad-City Times, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (55%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; LAW AND LEGISLATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (79%); DENNIS KUCINICH (56%) HULSE, CARL; KUCINICH, DENNIS J (REP); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); KERRY, JOHN (SEN); LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); EDWARDS, JOHN (SEN); GRAHAM, BOB (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



633 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Bush Offers Pakistan Aid, but No F-16's 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: CAMP DAVID, Md., June 24 

 BODY:
President Bush offered Pakistan a tightly conditioned package of $3 billion in aid today, a move that seemed intended to bolster an unsteady ally that only two years ago was still under strict American sanctions for defying the United States by developing its own nuclear weapons program.
 But in a lengthy meeting today with Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, here at the presidential retreat in the Maryland mountains, Mr. Bush said he would not provide the F-16 fighters that Pakistan has sought for 14 years. A senior administration official said that Mr. Bush had made clear that the new package of aid was dependent on continued cooperation in battling terrorism and a permanent end to assisting the North Korean nuclear program. 
 General Musharraf, who has publicly denied that his country aided North Korea in building uranium-enrichment facilities, told the president that he understood that any kind of military aid to the North is "a no-go area," the senior official told reporters today.
Much as he hands out visits to his Texas ranch as a badge of alliance solidarity, or a sense of closeness to some allies, Mr. Bush invited General Musharraf for an unusual midweek visit to Camp David as a way of elevating the status of his trip to the United States.
He praised the general, who gained power in a 1999 military takeover, for working "to build a modern Pakistan that is tolerant and prosperous." That praise reflected General Musharraf's decision to align himself with the United States after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Mr. Bush's father suspended all aid to Pakistan in 1990 for refusing to stop its nuclear program.
Now Mr. Bush and his aides seem to regard the nuclear capacity as a fait accompli, and they are again using the lure of aid and trade to help General Musharraf fend off fundamentalists who seek an Islamic state with an Islamic bomb.
So today marked the first time in years that Washington has talked of a long-term aid program for the country, one whose details are still undefined. Administration officials said today that it would require Congressional approval, and that General Musharraf understands that failure to democratize, curb terrorism and stop proliferation would halt aid. "I'm not calling those conditions," a senior administration official told reporters, "but let's be realistic. Three years down the road, if things are going badly in those areas, it's not going to happen."
General Musharraf and Mr. Bush appeared at ease with each other at Camp David today and chatted about their new-found closeness. But in private, Mr. Bush's aides say they are concerned that General Musharraf's promises to democratize Pakistan are moving slowly at best, and that his political support is eroding.
They are concerned about the general's control over his country's nuclear infrastructure -- particularly the Khan Research Laboratory, which appears to be the source of aid to North Korea -- which one senior official said recently could be "weaker than advertised."
"It's the country that worries us the most," one official said in an interview last week, "because it's the only nuclear power in danger of falling into the wrong hands."
Pakistan and India were both subject to severe economic sanctions after they both tested nuclear weapons in 1998. But those sanctions were largely lifted after the Sept. 11 attacks. Now, with the proposal of aid, Mr. Bush has gone in the opposite direction, rewarding Pakistan for its help in pursuing terrorists --including the arrest of more than 500 people both governments say are suspected of links to Al Qaeda and deployment for the first time of the Pakistan Army in the restive border region with Afghanistan.
Officials said that Mr. Bush spoke only in private -- not during their public sessions -- about worries that Pakistan has become a major source of proliferation.
In the past, General Musharraf has denied that his government provided North Korea with the designs for centrifuges to enrich uranium, which American officials suspect has been used to create a second nuclear project. But American intelligence agencies say that the evidence appears solid, and last fall they said that American satellites watched as a Pakistan Air Force aircraft picked up missiles last summer in North Korea. Some officials believe that was payment for the nuclear technology.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell has said he has been assured by General Musharraf that all aid to North Korea had ended. But the issue remains enormously sensitive, and one reason to keep even General Musharraf's Pakistan at some distance by refusing, for instance, to deliver the 71 F-16's.
In December 1998, the United States paid Pakistan $325 million for Washington's decision not to deliver the jets. But the issue has never gone away in Islamabad, and Mr. Bush said today, to laughter, that "the president is not afraid to bring up the issue of F-16's -- he has been a strong advocate for the sale of F-16's to Pakistan."
American officials say that any agreement to sell planes would enrage India. The administration also fears giving military aid that could, in a change of government, end up in the wrong hands.
General Musharraf said today that the search for Osama bin Laden continues. Asked if Mr. bin Laden was in the tribal areas of Pakistan bordering Afghanistan, the general said "your guess, sir, is as good as mine." More than a year ago, General Musharraf said during a visit to the White House that he believed Mr. bin Laden was probably dead.
Mr. Bush, asked about both Mr. bin Laden and Saddam Hussein, said "we'll find them, it's a matter of time." He added later, "It could take a day, or it could take a month, it could take years." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); POLITICS (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); MOUNTAINS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); RELIGION (67%); APPROVALS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; TERRORISM; ATOMIC WEAPONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%) PAKISTAN; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



634 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Fox Television to Add HDTV To Prime Time by Fall 2004
The Fox Television Network, which had previously shunned high-definition broadcasting, plans to transmit at least half its prime-time schedule in HDTV beginning in the fall of 2004, said Peter Chernin, the president of the News Corporation.
 The move brings the network in line with its three main broadcast competitors, which already transmit the bulk of their prime-time dramas and comedies in the highest available quality of digital television or will do so soon. Page C5. 

NBC Wants to Form Vivendi Alliance
NBC is planning to join the bidding for the nonmusic entertainment assets of Vivendi Universal but wants to form an alliance with Vivendi rather than buy Vivendi out. C3.

Abercrombie Settles Investigation
Abercrombie & Fitch has agreed to pay $2.2 million to settle an investigation in which California accused it of illegally requiring employees to purchase and wear its apparel. A16.

No Deal Near on Child Tax Credit
Republican Senate leaders said there would be no agreement with the House this month to increase the child tax credit for 6.5 million low-income families. A18.

Investors Await Fed Rate Action
Investors made few moves ahead of a decision on interest rates from the Federal Reserve. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 36.90 points, to 9,109.85, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 1.81 points, to 983.45. The Nasdaq composite index fell 5.14 points, to 1,605.61. C11.

A.M.D. Cuts Forecast for Sales
Shares of Advanced Micro Devices fell 28 cents after the company cut its second-quarter sales forecast by $100 million, to about $615 million. Advanced Micro said sales of PC and cellphone chips this month have missed estimates in Asian markets, including China, as shoppers stayed home to avoid severe acute respiratory syndrome. C5.

Contract Reached at Baltimore Sun
Editorial and business employees of The Baltimore Sun voted to accept a four-year contract despite an earlier announcement from their union's bargaining committee that it could not recommend the pact. It includes a $1,500 signing bonus and merit raises on top of modest annual pay increases. C11.

Official of Stolt-Nielsen Is Charged
Richard Wingfield, who was with Stolt-Nielsen Transportation Group and was manager of the tanker trading division, was charged with price-fixing and bid-rigging by prosecutors in the United States. C15.

Federal Inquiry Into Pediatrix Billing
Shares of the Pediatrix Medical Group fell 24 percent after the company said a federal prosecutor was conducting a civil investigation into its Medicaid billing practices. C2.

Consumers Appear More Optimistic
Consumer confidence was higher than expected in June, driven by optimism about the economy's prospects six months from now, the Conference Board said. C11.

New Neighbors for Texas Rangers
A division of Siemens will occupy two three-story buildings under construction next to the stadium that is home to the Texas Rangers. Commercial Real Estate. C10.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,109.85 up 36.90Nasdaq composite -- 1,605.61 down 5.1410-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.25% down 0.07The euro -- $1.1506 down 0.0038The dollar -- 117.88 yen up 0.26 Graph: "TODAY" shows Durable Goods Orders since November.May figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.0% Graph: "TODAY" shows New-Home Sales since November.May figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.2% Graph tracks Advanced Micro Devices share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (89%); PRICE FIXING (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); MERIT PAY (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); MEDICAID (73%); FAMILY (72%); POOR POPULATION (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); RETAIL SALES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (66%); BASEBALL (62%); SARS (50%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%); VIVENDI (84%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (83%); STOLT-NIELSEN TRANSPORTATION GROUP LTDA (80%); STOLT-NIELSEN TRANSPORTATION GROUP PTY LTD (80%); STOLT-NIELSEN TRANSPORTATION GROUP PTE LTD (80%); STOLT-NIELSEN TRANSPORTATION GROUP LTD (80%); STOLT-NIELSEN TRANSPORTATION GROUP BV (80%); NEWS CORP (72%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (66%); STOLT-NIELSEN SA (51%); MEDNAX INC (51%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (84%); VIV (BIT) (84%); ANF (NYSE) (83%); AFT (FRA) (83%); NWS (NASDAQ) (72%); NWS (ASX) (72%); AMD (NYSE) (66%); AMD (FRA) (66%); SNI (OSL) (51%); MD (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (51%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (51%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (51%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (51%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (51%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (51%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: PETER CHERNIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003 



635 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: CURRENTS: CALIFORNIA -- ARCHITECTURE; 
There's More than Oil in Downtown Los Angeles

BYLINE:  By Frances Anderton

 BODY:
 First the 1952 Superior Oil building in Los Angeles was turned into the trendy Standard Downtown hotel. Now other postwar downtown office buildings are going residential, thanks to an adaptive-reuse ordinance passed in 1999. 
The Pegasus Apartments, inset top left, opened last week in the former Mobil Oil Corporation building of 1949, by Welton Becket (designer of the Capitol Records building), opposite the Standard. The Kor Realty Group, developer of the Avalon, Maison 140 and Viceroy hotels, is a developer of the Pegasus, which retains features like the vertical aluminum fins on the building and nickel-plated doorknobs. The interior designer of the hotels, Kelly Wearstler, did the restrained Pegasus interiors, above in a model apartment. Rents range from $1,100 a month to $6,500 for a penthouse. 
 Earvin Johnson, the basketball player turned urban developer, above right, is also investing in downtown. Canyon-Johnson Urban Fund, a joint venture with Canyon Capital Realty Advisors, recently bought the 1964 Transamerica Center Tower, designed by William Pereira, another celebrated postwar Los Angeles architect. Transamerica, top right, sat for many years in the underdeveloped South Park area. Now the neighborhood is "the hottest investment opportunity," said Kenneth Lombard, managing partner of Canyon-Johnson. The company expects a residential and commercial mix for the tower and companion low-rise buildings. Development may start this year.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Above and inset, Benny Chan/Fotoworks; bottom right, Scott Gries/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); BASKETBALL (68%); JOINT VENTURES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MOBIL OIL CORP (72%); VICEROY HOTELS LTD (57%)

TICKER: VICEROY (NSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



636 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
A Prickly Courtship For Orchestra and Hall

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY TOMMASINI 

 BODY:
The marriage of the New York Philharmonic and Carnegie Hall is showing early signs of strain. That at least was the impression left by separate recent telephone interviews with Zarin Mehta, the executive director of the Philharmonic, and Robert Harth, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall.
 When the merger made the news on June 2, it seemed a completely top-down policy decision. The plan was worked out secretly and hastily by the boards of the two institutions and was thrust upon their administrators, many saying that they learned of it in The New York Times. Mr. Harth conceded that "the alacrity with which things happened was surprising to everyone." 
 If he was among the surprised, he masked it well during subsequent joint interviews for the news media with Mr. Mehta. They tried to reassure those rattled by the news -- just about everyone in the classical music world -- that Carnegie Hall could accommodate the Philharmonic without significantly compromising its own offerings. The plan's success was all a matter of working out the details, they said.
But more recently Mr. Harth and Mr. Mehta expressed diverging thoughts on some of those details, especially the question of how the hall's weekly schedule will look once the Philharmonic moves in with its roughly 130 concerts a year and extensive rehearsal schedule.
That move would end the orchestra's four-decade residency at Avery Fisher Hall in Lincoln Center and return the Philharmonic to the hall where it had played since 1891. 
"People think that we are simply going to graft the current Philharmonic schedule on top of the Carnegie Hall schedule," Mr. Harth said. "The opportunity here is to create a merged institution that is forward-thinking. We are looking at new ways of presentation and new types of scheduling." In economically challenging times "business as usual is not working," he added.
Forward-thinking. Sounds good. Except that the Philharmonic, however splendid an orchestra, has not been forward-thinking since the 1970's, when it took a chance on Pierre Boulez as music director when mainstream concertgoers knew of him as only a thorny serialist composer. It would be great if a major American orchestra embraced Mr. Harth's vision and loosened its commitment to the subscription-series format. Though this conventional way of organizing a season may make it easier to sign up regular concertgoers, it inhibits creative programming.
Rethinking the subscription format is not on the table, Mr. Mehta said. "I don't want change just for the sake of change if something is already working," he said.
He added that just as the New York Philharmonic must fit into the host's season schedule when it travels to the home of the Berlin Philharmonic, orchestras and ensembles visiting Carnegie Hall will have to accommodate the New York Philharmonic's schedule. Mr. Mehta said he was sure there would be adequate available nights and weekend slots. Visiting orchestras "will find a way of coming in when we can get the dates," he said.
"Not that they will get second-rate dates," he added.
Yet with, say, the Vienna Philharmonic, the Cleveland Orchestra and the San Francisco Symphony all competing for three consecutive nights on a weekend in the fall, somebody is going to get either second-rate dates or no slots at all. From Mr. Mehta's description, it sounds as if business as usual will remain the operating mode of the New York Philharmonic. 
Mr. Mehta's ready use of the pronoun "we" raises another question: Who exactly will be in charge of programming at Carnegie Hall? Mr. Mehta said initially that he would tend to the Philharmonic's schedule and that Mr. Harth would attend to everything else. But in his recent interview Mr. Mehta came across as a co-artistic planner for the entire operation. 
"I expect to have a lot of input," Mr. Mehta said. "If this is going to be a merger, we have to hold hands and together do what's best for the art."
He pointed to Carnegie Hall's innovative Perspectives series, in which distinguished artists (Gidon Kremer, Maurizio Pollini, Mitsuko Uchida and James Levine among them) have been invited to plan a series for themselves and other artists and ensembles (orchestras, chamber groups, choruses) and explore a theme or repertory. Once the Philharmonic becomes Carnegie's partner, the orchestra and its individual players will be readily available for the Perspectives series. What if a selected artist is not interested in the Philharmonic? I can imagine powerful institutional pressure coming to bear to include the Philharmonic in some way in every Perspectives series.
Then there is the sensitive issue of Lorin Maazel. Even his ardent defenders would have to concede that during his first season conducting the Philharmonic, this brilliant technician and powerful musician has divided listeners with his penchant for precision-controlled and willful performances. His contract ends with the 2005-6 season. If the merger proceeds, contingent in part on whether Carnegie's backstage office, storage and library space can be expanded adequately, the Philharmonic is ready to move in the fall of 2006. 
Perhaps Mr. Maazel will be the transitional figure that many see him as and step aside when his contract ends and before the move. Then again, maybe his contract will be extended so that he can take the orchestra to its new home. Or will the Philharmonic's administration embrace this merger as a chance to inaugurate a new era with a younger and more innovative music director?
But even if the Philharmonic hired a conductor from my dream list, like David Robertson, Robert Spano, Kent Nagano or some other dynamic musician, and it became the hippest and most forward-thinking orchestra in the United States, its looming presence would still profoundly change the character of Carnegie Hall. 
Back at Lincoln Center, the challenge of filling those Philharmonic dates at Avery Fisher Hall looks formidable. In March the London Symphony Orchestra played three exhilarating all-Berlioz programs under Colin Davis to ecstatic receptions. But suppose Lincoln Center's Great Performers series tried to expand a three-concert appearance like that one into a monthlong residency. Would music lovers in New York turn out for, say, 15 programs by the London Symphony? And for all orchestras, even major ones, international touring has long been a prestige-boosting, good-will-generating and money-losing proposition. Jane S. Moss, the vice president for programming at Lincoln Center, said in a recent interview that in planning the center's future it is "unlikely that we will simply take what we do and quadruple it." There has to be a "comprehensive new vision," she added. More power to her. But she sure has a lot of dates to fill.
This discussion does not even begin to address the raft of issues that lawyers at the Philharmonic and Carnegie Hall are starting to analyze. For example, when the endowments are merged, what happens to gifts restricted by definition to either Carnegie Hall or the Philharmonic? What about the legal entanglements of combining boards? Imagine Harvard and M.I.T. merging. In the world of New York culture, the merger of a storied concert hall and a prestigious orchestra is of comparable significance and complexity.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zarin Mehta, left, executive director of the New York Philharmonic, and Robert Harth, executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (68%) MUSIC 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC; CARNEGIE HALL (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: HARTH, ROBERT; MEHTA, ZARIN; TOMMASINI, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



637 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Fall as Sales of New and Existing Homes Climb 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25 

 BODY:
A surprise drop in orders for costly United States-made goods in May damped hopes for a brisk economic recovery, even as home sales soared and the Federal Reserve reduced rates today to give growth an added lift.
 Orders of durable goods fell 0.3 percent last month, the Commerce Department said today. Private economists had forecast a rise of 1 percent. 
 The value of orders tumbled to $168.3 billion, the lowest level since June 2002.
The report on durable goods and positive data on the housing sector were released a few hours before the Fed cut short-term interest rates a quarter-point, to a fresh 45-year low of 1 percent.
Excluding the volatile transportation sector, orders of durable goods edged up 0.2 percent, much slower than expected. Excluding military-related products, orders of durable goods rose 0.3 percent.
"This report also reveals that the economy is truly facing considerable headwinds from the manufacturing sector," said Anthony Chan, the chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio.
"I think the Fed remains concerned about these headwinds and that's one of the reasons they cut rates," Mr. Chan added.
The gloomy factory news was tempered somewhat by strong housing data.
The Commerce Department said that sales of new single-family homes climbed 12.5 percent in May, to a record annual rate of 1.157 million units.
And the National Association of Realtors said sales of previously owned homes jumped 1.2 percent in May, to 5.92 million.
"Housing is the one economic sector that seems to be carrying the day while others struggle, and thank God for that," said Carl Tannenbaum, the chief economist at LaSalle Bank in Chicago. "But how many laps can this particular runner go before it hands off the baton to another runner?"
"These housing numbers are just extraordinarily impressive," said Cary Leahey, a senior economist at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown in New York. "Buying a home is a big vote of confidence in the economy."
The report on durable goods showed broad weakness, with orders falling in categories like cars, communications equipment and machinery.
May was the fourth month in six that overall orders have fallen. In April, orders of durable goods plunged 2.4 percent, revised down from a 2.3 percent drop.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Durable Goods Orders"Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeMay: -0.3%April: -2.4March: +1.3 Graph tracks new orders from December 2001 to May 2003. (Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "New-Home Sales"Annual rate in thousands of new private homes sold during month, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeMay: +12.5%April: +1.0March: +8.9 Graph tracks annual rate from December 2001 to May 2003. (Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Prices of New Homes"Median price for new homes in thousands of dollars. Monthly ChangeMay: +5.2%April: +1.0March: -1.8 Graph tracks median price from December 2001 to May 2003. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (52%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES; HOUSING; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



638 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Decline as Fed Eases Rate Less Than Anticipated

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks dropped yesterday after the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by less than some economists had expected. General Electric and Microsoft led the decline.
 While the central bank reduced its overnight lending rate a quarter point to the lowest in 45 years, some money managers and traders were anticipating a half-point cut. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 8.13 points, or 0.8 percent, to 975.32, its lowest close since June 3. The Dow Jones industrial average slid 98.32 points, or 1.1 percent, to 9,011.53, the lowest since June 9. The Nasdaq composite index declined for a fifth trading day, losing 2.95 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,602.66. 
General Electric, the world's biggest company by market value, lost 67 cents, to $29.26. Microsoft, the No. 1 software maker, shed 44 cents, to $25.26. It has lost 3 percent in the last five days of trading. General Electric is selling its Tokyo-based life insurance unit to the American International Group for about $2.6 billion.
Carnival, the cruise line company, fell after second-quarter profit declined 34 percent as it cut the prices of trips.
Carnival slipped $1.01, to $31. The company reported earnings of 19 cents a share, missing the average analyst estimate of 22 cents, according to Thomson First Call.
Verity plunged $5, to $12.33. Verity, which makes software for Internet search engines, predicted fiscal first-quarter and full-year profit that trailed analysts' expectations. It said slack demand for computer-related products had not improved.
Dupont Photomasks, which makes templates for producing computer chips, dropped $1.14, to $19.43. It said fiscal fourth-quarter revenue would be $80 million, missing the average analyst forecast of $82 million. The company also said its chairman, Peter Kirlin, resigned.
Freddie Mac rose 80 cents, to $50.83. Freddie Mac, the No. 2 mortgage financier, said it would restate its profit for the last three years higher by $1.5 billion to $4.5 billion. The restatement is a result of a change in the way Freddie Mac books profit from its hedges.
Cisco Systems, the world's biggest maker of computer-networking equipment, added 12 cents, to $16.87. Nextel Communications, the wireless carrier, gained 41 cents, to $16.95. Lehman Brothers Holdings included both companies on its annual list of "10 Uncommon Values."
The list has outperformed the S.& P. 500 72 percent of the time since it was first issued in 1949. Amgen, Burlington Resources, Exelon, Harrah's Entertainment, Hewlett- Packard and JetBlue Airways also made the Lehman list.
Banc of America, the biggest United States lender to individual companies, jumped $1.10, to $78.65. The company said it would raise its quarterly dividend 25 percent, to 80 cents a share.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Fall
(By Reuters)
Treasury prices slid lower yesterday after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by just a quarter point, disappointing bond bulls who were betting on a more aggressive easing.
The Fed chopped 0.25 point off its funds rate, taking it to a four-decade low of 1 percent, but the market had been leaning toward a half-point reduction.
The two-year note auctioned yesterday was priced to yield 1.179 percent. By late in the day, the yield had increased to 1.32 percent.
The benchmark 10-year note declined 1 11/32, to a price of 101 26/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, climbed to 3.41 percent from 3.25 percent on Tuesday.
The 30-year bond lost 2 10/32, to 114 13/32. Its yield rose to 4.46 percent from 4.33 percent.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.894
High yield: 1.179%
Low yield: 1.000%
Median yield: 1.129%
Total applied for: $52,779,545
Accepted: $31,700,305
Noncompetitive: $839,378
Interest set at: 1.125

The two-year notes mature June 30, 2005.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); BONDS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (79%); DIVIDENDS (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); SEARCH ENGINES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); COMPANY REVENUES (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (68%); CRUISES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (52%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (54%); TOPPAN PHOTOMASKS INC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); AMGEN INC (51%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (50%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (90%); GEC (LSE) (90%); GE (SWX) (90%); GE (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (60%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (54%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (51%); CZR (NASDAQ) (50%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (50%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (50%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



639 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Fed Statement On Decision To Cut Rate 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, reduced its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point: 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points, to 1 percent. In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate, to 2 percent. 
 The committee continues to believe that an accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with still robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing important ongoing support to economic activity. Recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions, and labor and product markets that are stabilizing. The economy, nonetheless, has yet to exhibit sustainable growth. With inflationary expectations subdued, the committee judged that a slightly more expansive monetary policy would add further support for an economy which it expects to improve over time. 
The committee perceives that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters are roughly equal. In contrast, the probability, though minor, of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation exceeds that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level. On balance, the committee believes that the latter concern is likely to predominate for the foreseeable future. 
Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were Alan Greenspan, chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; J. Alfred Broaddus Jr.; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Jack Guynn; Donald L. Kohn; Michael H. Moskow; Mark W. Olson; and Jamie B. Stewart Jr. 
Voting against the action was Robert T. Parry. President Parry preferred a 50 basis point reduction in the target for the federal funds rate. 
In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, St. Louis, Kansas City and San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); APPROVALS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



640 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Freddie Mac Understated Pretax Profit 

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
Freddie Mac, the second-largest financier of mortgages, understated its pretax profits for the last three years by as much as $6.9 billion, in part because it wanted to report those gains in future years, the company said yesterday.
 The errors resulted from complex technical decisions in the way that Freddie Mac accounted for the money it made on its portfolio of mortgages and derivatives as interest rates fell, the company said. Since January, Freddie Mac has been conducting an internal inquiry into those decisions by its managers, and earlier this month, it fired its president, saying he failed to cooperate with that inquiry,and pushed out two other top executives for undisclosed reasons. 
 For the first time, Freddie Mac also acknowledged that it had in some cases deliberately manipulated accounting rules so that its profits would be near Wall Street's forecasts. The company said that the deliberate misstatements had a minor effect, while most of its problems were caused by accidental errors. It did not identify the people responsible for the manipulations. 
"The information we are disclosing today reflects poorly on Freddie Mac's past accounting, control and disclosure practices," said Gregory J. Parseghian, the chief executive. "Management is aggressively addressing these issues."
Freddie Mac also pledged yesterday to provide more information about its performance each quarter and to encourage investors to judge it using standard accounting rules. Those moves threw an uncomfortable spotlight on Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac's larger corporate cousin, which says its performance is best measured using nonstandard accounting.
While Freddie Mac understated its profits last year, some investors and economists contend that Fannie Mae suffered a large loss that it did not have to recognize because of the complexity of accounting rules. Fannie Mae disputes that analysis and says it does not have Freddie Mac's problems.
Yesterday, Freddie Mac rose 80 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $50.83. Fannie Mae fell $1.12, or 1.6 percent, to $67.88.
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are government-sponsored but publicly traded companies that are supposed to keep mortgage rates low by connecting investors with banks and other companies that make home loans. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae buy those loans, then package them into securities, which they sell to investors. The two companies own or guarantee almost half of all United States mortgages, and some economists and competitors complain that because of their size and connection to the government, they are a serious risk to taxpayers.
Representative Richard H. Baker, a Louisiana Republican who has proposed legislation to tighten oversight of the companies, said yesterday that the size of Freddie Mac's restatement "underscores the importance of what has been previously observed by many -- that current regulatory oversight is not adequate." But the companies have enjoyed strong support in Congress, where they are viewed as making housing more affordable.
To correct the earlier inaccuracies in its reports, Freddie Mac will restate its earnings higher for 2002, 2001 and 2000, the company said yesterday. The effect will be to lower Freddie Mac's reported profits in the future, although it will probably not cause the company to become unprofitable. Freddie Mac has said repeatedly, and emphasized again yesterday, that the restatement has no impact on the actual results of its business last year, and simply affects when the profits it made in 2002 are reported. 
Freddie Mac also said yesterday that it would substantially change the way it reports its results. In the future, it will encourage investors to judge its results under standard accounting rules, rather than a nonstandard accounting measure that had previously been its principal gauge of profit and loss. That change will increase the volatility of Freddie Mac's reported earnings.
Since January, Freddie Mac has been examining its accounting for the last three years at the behest of PricewaterhouseCoopers, its new auditor. PricewaterhouseCoopers replaced Arthur Andersen as Freddie Mac's accountant last year.
On June 6, Freddie Mac fired its president, David W. Glenn, and forced out both its chief executive, Leland C. Brendsel, and its chief financial officer, Vaughn A. Clarke.
Martin F. Baumann, Freddie Mac's new chief financial officer, said its books had been "an accounting mess with a lot of accounting errors." He said the company had hired more accountants and given them more authority to examine its books.
The company will add $1.5 billion to $4.5 billion to its reported earnings, Mr. Baumann said. Almost all of that adjustment will be recorded for its last three annual statements, with a small adjustment to its earlier reports. On a pretax basis, the restatement will be $2.3 billion to $6.9 billion.
In addition to restating its earnings, Freddie Mac said it would provide some information that Fannie Mae, its competitor, now does not. Freddie Mac will report each quarter its fair market balance sheet, a measure that some investors and economists say they believe is the best overall measure of performance for financial institutions, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Fair value balance sheets give investors the market prices of all of a company's assets and debts, including its derivative positions. The difference between assets and debts is the company's equity, which belongs to shareholders.
Supporters of fair value say that financial companies have a very high ratio of debt to equity, making their long-term health very vulnerable to changes in interest rates that may not have an obvious short-term impact. Still, some banks and insurance companies have resisted providing fair value balance sheets, arguing that it can be misleading.
Mr. Baumann said the fair value balance sheet is one of the most important measures of the company's health.
"We manage ourselves largely on that basis," he said. "One of the key things we look at is growing the fair value of our shareholders' equity, quarter after quarter."
Fannie Mae provides a fair value balance sheet only once a year. Last year, Fannie Mae's balance sheet showed that the company was only marginally profitable, while it reported earnings of $6.4 billion under the nonstandard accounting measure that it favors.
Chuck Greener, a spokesman for Fannie Mae, said Fannie Mae would not promise to provide its fair value balance sheet each quarter, although he said the company would consider doing so if investors requested it.
"We do not have the problems that Freddie Mac has, and therefore the solutions they have proposed for their business do not pertain to Fannie Mae." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); ETHICS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); LEGISLATION (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; HOUSING; MORTGAGES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: FREDDIE MAC; FANNIE MAE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



641 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve Lowers Key Rate To 1%, Lowest Level Since 1958 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25 

 BODY:
Trying to bring the long economic downturn to a halt at last, the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates by a quarter of a point today, taking them to their lowest level since 1958.
 To the disappointment of the stock and bond markets, the Fed rejected a half-point cut and explained in a statement that the economy appeared to be improving but could still benefit from easier credit. 
 "Recent signs point to a firming in spending, markedly improved financial conditions, and labor and product markets that are stabilizing," the Fed's statement read. "The economy, nonetheless, has yet to exhibit sustainable growth."
In a sign of how radically the Fed has changed its focus over the last three years, officials also said that concerns about price declines, rather than inflation, were "likely to predominate for the foreseeable future." The statement, economists said, signaled that the Fed, while still viewing the risk of deflation as minor, planned to keep interest rates low for an extended period. 
Stocks and bonds fell after the midafternoon announcement, with the Standard & Poor's 500 index closing at 975.32, down 8.13 points. 
The fall in the Fed's benchmark rate, to 1 percent from 1.25 percent, will quickly reduce rates on many business, home equity and credit card loans, as well as the return on money market funds. Mortgage rates, which are set by the market, are unlikely to change significantly, economists said, because investors had expected the Fed to act.
Retirees and other people who rely on fixed investments for income will take an effective pay cut. But the overall decline in borrowing costs for households and companies is likely to help the economy, analysts said.
Reflecting the recent debate within the Fed over how much help the economy needs, Robert T. Parry, president of the San Francisco Fed, voted against his 11 colleagues on the rate-setting committee and favored a half-point cut. The committee's decisions are usually unanimous; before today, Mr. Parry last dissented in 1989. 
The Fed has cut rates 13 times since the beginning of 2001, first in a failed effort to prevent a recession and more recently in hopes of halting a period of slow growth and persistent layoffs. But the hangover from the 1990's boom, combined with wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and a series of corporate scandals, has caused the worst hiring slump in 20 years and the longest one since the period before World War II. 
Most worrisome to Fed officials, a continuation of the downturn would increase the likelihood of deflation, a sustained decline in prices that could cause wages to fall and debts to become effectively larger. While reiterating that they consider the risk small, officials said today that the chance of "an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation exceeds that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level."
The economy has recently shown signs of improvement, like increases in manufacturing activity and retail sales, which appear to have pushed the Fed toward the smaller rate cut. A recently passed tax cut, the already low level of interest rates and this year's decline in the dollar, which helps American companies compete with foreign rivals, have also caused most economists to predict a rebound in coming months.
"There's just a lot of stimulus in the pipeline already," said James O'Sullivan, an economist at UBS Warburg. "So it's very reasonable to think that growth is going to be stronger in the second half of the year."
But most forecasters and Fed officials have been predicting a return to healthy growth since early last year, only to be surprised by the depth of the problems created by the bubble in stocks and business spending, particularly on technology. A further decline in interest rates will not necessarily cause companies to build factories or buy more equipment, some economists say.
"We've got a world awash in excess supply," said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley and one of the first analysts to discuss deflation as a serious possibility. "Companies don't want to exacerbate the imbalance."
In other economic news today, the Commerce Department reported that the decline in orders for durable goods -- large, expensive items often bought by companies -- fell 0.3 percent in May, after a steeper decline of 2.4 percent from March to April.
Having studied Japan's descent into deflation and a decade-long slump, Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, and other officials have come to believe that central banks should act aggressively in a bubble's aftermath, according to their recent speeches. This belief has led them over the last two and a half years to make mostly half-point rate cuts, rather than the quarter-point reductions that were common during the early 1990's downturn.
But the Fed apparently decided this time that the combination of a long slump and recent reasons for optimism, including a nearly 20 percent rise in stocks since March, argued for the more gradual move. 
"The Fed does expect stronger economic growth," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo Bank in Minneapolis, "but they are not as sure of it as the stock market."
Some Fed officials are also worried that interest rates below 1 percent could damage the nation's financial markets and the ability of companies to borrow. Americans now hold more than $1 trillion in money market funds, and much of that filters through the commercial paper market to finance corporate investments.
Many of these funds, though, have expenses that are too high to allow them to operate profitably when rates fall near zero. With the Fed's benchmark rate now at 1 percent, only 3 percent of assets in the funds fall into this category. At 0.75 percent, 15 percent of them would, according to iMoneyNet, a research company based in Westborough, Mass.
If the economy remains weak and the Fed's rate falls to 0.5 percent, almost 40 percent of fund assets would face this problem, and the money market industry might begin to shrink. 
Interest rates on many savings and checking accounts have recently fallen in anticipation of Fed action, according to BankRate.com, another research company. But the Fed's suggestion that rates will remain low could cause them to drop further.
"If anybody is still earning interest on a checking account, they probably won't be next week," said Peter G. Crane, a vice president at iMoneyNet.
By implying that it will not raise rates for months to come, the Fed seems poised to create the longest period of extremely low borrowing costs since World War II. Interest rates fell sharply during the Depression and remained low during World War II by order of the government, which needed to borrow to pay for the fighting, said Richard Sylla, an economics professor at New York University.
The executive branch gave the Fed more independence in 1951, allowing it to set short-term rates in reaction to the business cycle. With rates already low, recessions in 1953-54 and 1957-58 each caused rates to fall briefly below 1 percent.
But as inflation began to rise in the late 1960's and exceeded 10 percent in the 70's and 80's, the Fed -- particularly under Paul A. Volcker, the chairman from 1979 to 1987 -- repeatedly increased rates to reduce economic demand and keep prices more stable. 
Now the bigger threat appears to be deflation, and it is aggravated by economic growth in Japan and Germany that is even slower than it is in the United States.
"This is a new regime for the Fed," Mr. O'Sullivan of UBS Warburg said, referring to officials' focus on keeping prices up rather than down. "It is a big change from the last 20 years." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); DEFLATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (69%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (65%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (65%); IRAQ WAR (65%); WORLD WAR II (60%); SCANDALS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



642 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Do workers really make hay while the sun shines, or just clock out sooner?

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University and a co-editor of The Journal of the European Economic Association. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
A CORE tenet of supply-side economics is that people will work more if their take-home pay rate rises. 
 Support for this proposition has proved surprisingly difficult to find, however, especially in regard to men. 
 Studies of annual hours worked among individuals turn up a wide range of estimates of the effects, but typically indicate that work hours are only weakly associated with pay. To the extent there is a consensus among economists -- and there is more than the usual amount of disagreement here -- it is that a 10 percent rise in wages leads to less than a 1 percent increase in work hours for men and a 3 percent increase for women. 
With such small responses, tax cuts clearly will not pay forthemselves. 
Why is the supply of labor so unresponsive to pay? Two theoretical effects work in opposite directions. On the one hand, workers substitute more hours at work for time spent in leisure if the wage rate rises, as leisure time has become relatively more expensive. This is known as the substitution effect. On the other hand, if workers are paid more, they like to use their extra income to consume more of the things they enjoy, including leisure time. This is known as the income effect. The income and substitution effects roughly offset each other. 
Another factor is that many employers dictate the number of hours employees must work, so they cannot work more or fewer hours if they want to. And, of course, in a weak economy unemployment prevents some people from working at all. 
Still, in certain situations, a sizable supply response is expected. Obviously, workers must have the flexibility to adjust their hours. In addition, if wage increases are known to be temporary, the substitution effect will loom large, and the income effect will be insignificant because lifetime income is hardly affected. 
For example, if pay is expected to be exceptionally high on Thursday, and Thursday only, then workers should work extra-long hours on Thursday; they can rest on Friday. Thus, "intertemporal substitution" of work effort across days should occur in response to transitory wage changes. 
Nevertheless, most studies of transitory wage changes have found only limited evidence of such behavior. 
In a 1997 study, Colin Camerer of the California Institute of Technology and three colleagues posed a novel explanation for this anomaly: maybe many workers are "target income" earners. That is, workers have in mind a target for what they want to earn on a given day, and once they reach that level they go home. So a higher wage would cause some workers to quit earlier rather than work harder, because they would achieve their target income faster. 
To test this view, they collected data on taxi drivers in New York City. On days when fares per hour worked were higher -- for example, if waiting time between trips was low because of a convention -- they found that the average cabdriver worked less, not more. This looked like stunning support for the target-income model, and a rejection of the intertemporal substitution model.
For drivers with a lot of experience, however, they found that work effort increased on especially profitable days, suggesting that workers learn over time.
Now their findings are being debated. First, Gerald S. Oettinger of the University of Texas at Austin published a paper in the Journal of Political Economy on the daily work decisions of food and beverage vendors at a major-league baseball stadium. The vendors were independent contractors, required to work until the seventh inning, but they could choose which games to work. Vendors make more when the number of fans is high and the number of other vendors is low. Professor Oettinger found that vendors were more likely to go to work when the expected payoff was higher -- for example, on days when a larger crowd was expected because of a pivotal game or a quality opponent. The decision of whether to work at all on a high-payoff day -- as opposed to how much to work -- was not considered in the cabdriver study. 
Then, an actual experiment was conducted by Ernst Fehr and Lorenz Gotte, two economists at the University of Zurich. They persuaded Flash Delivery Services, a bicycle messenger company in Zurich, to raise the commission rate paid per delivery by 25 percent duringa preannounced four-week window for a randomly chosen half of its work force in September 2000, and for the other half two months later. The researchers found that messengers worked 20 percent more shifts when their commission rate was raised, although they put forth somewhat less effort per shift, as measured by the number of deliveries. Over the month when pay was elevated, total work effort was higher, consistent with the notion of intertemporal substitution of work for leisure.
And most recently, my Princeton colleague Henry S. Farber revisited the question of cabdrivers, studying a different set of drivers. He found that cabdrivers quit after they work a lot of hours and grow weary. How much they have earned to that point has little or nothing to do with their decision. Moreover, the amount the drivers earn varies substantially from day to day, suggesting that their target income levels, if they have them, fluctuate wildly. He suggests that the earlier findings possibly resulted from reporting errors in the data: because daily wages were derived by dividing total revenue by hours worked, any mistake in reported hours would cause a mistake in the opposite direction in the calculated wage, inducing a negative correlation between wages and hours worked. 
So where does this leave us? Perhaps most important, a distinction must be drawn between permanent and transitory changes in pay. For long-term changes -- like the decline in fares cabdrivers saw after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, discouraged tourists from visiting New York -- Professor Farber says he would not be surprised if drivers actually worked more hours to make up, in part, for lost income. 
There is little reason to believe recently enacted tax cuts will increase work effort if they are perceived as permanent. In fact, if the tax cuts are repealed, work effort will probably increase before the repeal takes effect, at least among those with flexible schedules and much experience.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 3, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The Economic Scene column in Business Day last Thursday, about the connection between an increase in pay and the number of hours worked, misidentified the delivery service that participated in an experiment conducted by two economists at the University of Zurich. It was Veloblitz of Zurich; Flash Delivery Services provided some data.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A study of cabdrivers suggested the average cabby worked with a "target income" in mind, but more-experienced drivers worked more when it was especially profitable. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (69%) LABOR; WORKING HOURS; WAGES AND SALARIES; TAXATION 

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



643 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Higher Spending Seen on Campaigns

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
In another indication that the advertising economy is improving, TNS Media Intelligence/CMR, a division of Taylor Nelson Sofres that tracks ad spending, revised upward its forecast for this year.
 The new forecast for 2003, made on Tuesday, is for a gain of 4.3 percent compared with spending in 2002, up from a prediction in January of a 3.3 percent increase. 
 Steven J. Fredericks, the president and chief executive of TNS Media, in New York, said the revised estimate reflected factors like higher-than-expected spending in the first quarter, continued growth of advertising on Spanish-language television and record-breaking commitments by advertisers to buy television commercials ahead of the 2003-4 season.
Other forecasters have recently adjusted their predictions for this year. Last week, for instance, the dean of Madison Avenue forecasters, Robert J. Coen, senior vice president and forecasting director at Universal McCann in New York, decreased his prediction of growth to 4.6 percent from 5 percent, and David Doft, an analyst at CIBC World Markets, increased his growth estimate to 3.3 percent from 3.1 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%) ADVERTISING; FINANCES 

COMPANY: TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (58%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: TNS MEDIA INTELLIGENCE/CMR 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC; 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



644 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Broadway Joe Wants a West Side Stadium

BYLINE:  By DAVE ANDERSON

 BODY:
IN rejoining the Jets as their ambassador at large, Joe Namath returned to the site of his New York baptism. Beyond a wide window in the Renaissance New York Hotel, noontime traffic moved through Times Square, the same but now different background used for the memorable Sports Illustrated cover heralding his rookie season in 1965 as a $427,000 quarterback.
 "I felt like the biggest jerk in town that night," he was saying now. "Here were all those people going to the theater and I was standing down there in my Jets jersey and shoulder pads. I really felt like a dork." 
 But that cover photo labeled him. Shortly after the Jets opened their training camp that summer in Peekskill, N.Y., Namath glanced across the locker room to where the late Sherman Plunkett, one of pro football's first 300-pound offensive tackles, was staring at that cover.
"'Broadway,"' Namath remembered Plunkett saying. "'Broadway Joe.' That's the reason I love that man. That cover turned out to be one of the most important things I ever did."
He has been Broadway Joe ever since, but when he led the 1968 Jets to their Super Bowl III upset of the Baltimore Colts, he was really East Side Joe. That's where his Bachelors III restaurant was. That's where his apartment with the white llama rug was. That's where the girls were.
Yesterday the only girls with Joe Namath were his daughters: 17-year-old Jessica and 12-year-old Olivia. But with his thick mane and hunched shoulders, Namath, at age 60, is on the Jets' roster again. The front-office roster.
His primary job will be to drum up support for the proposed West Side stadium that would allow the Jets to return to New York from Giants Stadium in New Jersey. That could be a tougher job than playing quarterback. He can't just drill a pass through the political defense: a weak economy and a mayoral policy that is cutting the school budget and closing firehouses.
Then again, most of the pro football world didn't think that his Jets team, a 17-point underdog, could beat the Colts. But he guaranteed it, and the Jets fulfilled his guarantee, 16-7.
It's unfair to ask Namath to guarantee a West Side stadium. He's not the quarterback this time. Robert Wood Johnson IV, known as Woody, the Jets' multimillionaire owner, is the quarterback. Namath is merely the backup, but he still speaks as confidently as he did the week before that Super Bowl.
"I'll be meeting with sponsors, with fans," he said. "We're trying to get the New York community to get behind Mr. Johnson's vision. We want to bring our team back here. Home. To New York City."
Namath was careful not to insult Giants Stadium, where the Jets have played since the 1984 season after leaving Shea Stadium, but he understands why the Jets want their own stadium.
"You don't feel the same playing in another team's stadium," he said. "I know the players would feel better playing in their own stadium. We are the Jets -- the New York Jets."
Namath's role with the Jets is connected to a coming line of Broadway Joe sports clothing. The overall value of his contract, as negotiated by his longtime agent, Jimmy Walsh, is whispered to be in the same neighborhood as his original $427,000 deal, then the most expensive in pro football history. But he proved to be a bargain.
In announcing Namath's return at a news conference, the Jets surrounded him with several of his Super Bowl teammates: Don Maynard, Winston Hill, John Schmitt, Bill Mathis, Dave Herman, Larry Grantham, Johnny Sample, Randy Beverly and Jeff Richardson, along with such later Jets as Freeman McNeil, Richard Caster, Greg Buttle and Ken Schroy.
"And there's Dr. Jim Nicholas," Namath said, glancing at the Jets' orthopedic surgeon for more than three decades. "He gave me my first physical in the restroom at Toots Shor's restaurant after he told me, 'I hear you have a bad knee."'
Namath would have his first knee operation the next day, but in an upstairs room at Shor's at an informal gathering for sportswriters to meet the Jets' rookie, one of the reporters asked him: "Just suppose, Joe, just suppose you don't make it, what happens with all the money you got? Just suppose, Joe, just suppose you don't make it."
Without raising his voice, without any braggadicio, Joe Namath looked at the reporter and said, "I'll make it."
Now his job is to help make the West Side stadium a reality. If he does, he'll deserve to be known as West Side Joe. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jets quarterback Joe Namath leaping to complete a pass against the Houston Oilers at Shea Stadium in 1966. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); MAYORS (76%); RESTAURANTS (72%); BUDGETS (61%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



645 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: BOXING; 
Heavyweight Dreams

BYLINE:  By GEOFFREY GRAY

 BODY:
Michael Rothberger works the night shift driving a truck for a fruit company in the Bronx and fights for $100 a round. He sleeps during the day, when he can, in his apartment or, in tougher times, in the back of his Chevy Blazer parked in the street because bad luck does not seem to change when you wake up in the dark.
 But tonight, in a comeback-from-nowhere four-rounder at the nightclub Jimmy's Bronx Cafe, a journeyman's ring misfortunes will change, he says. If not then, then never. 
 Rothberger, a stocky heavyweight who goes by the self-imposed nickname Shake and Bake, has lost his first four professional fights. The last three bouts ended in the first round, all by technical knockouts. If Rothberger loses one more time, the New York State Athletic Commission will revoke his license again. For good. 
Rothberger is matched against Mike Kelly, an airport supervisor from Philadelphia who will be making his professional debut.
"I've been given a second chance, and I'm fighting to win," Rothberger said last week before a workout at Gleason's Gym in Brooklyn, a stint in which he sparred in the ring for the first time in a year. "I have to win, no question about it."
In the last five years, Rothberger, who is from Brooklyn, became one of only four fighters to be suspended by the state for poor performances, an action the state commission takes to prevent injuries or dives. The other three fighters who were suspended were has-beens, taking too many fights late in their careers. Rothberger is alone, the only fighter in the sport's recent history in New York to have been suspended at the beginning of his career.
Of the state's estimated 300 licensed fighters, Rothberger, who turns 31 next month, is also one of the many part-time pugs who often challenge rising talents, and their own better judgment, for paydays that have not really changed much in more than 20 years. On the East Coast, for instance, the standard payment for a journeyman is still $400 for a four-round fight and $600 for six; in states like Mississippi, the pay can be as little as $75 a round. 
Sometimes expenses are covered. Sometimes they are not.
"The public doesn't buy into fighting itself anymore," the local promoter Sal Musumeci, who is putting on tonight's card, said. "If the public was interested in the competitiveness of the bouts, in the sport, then purses for four-round fighters would go up." Inflation in boxing, he says, only touches the sport's silk-pajama champions, with their cable-television contracts. 
Last weekend, for instance, a tubby Lennox Lewis earned more than $7 million for 18 slumbering minutes of action in his title defense against Vitali Klitschko. When Lewis fought Mike Tyson last year, both earned more than $30 million. 
For journeymen, whom all champions at some point must pass and punish to pad their records, transportation to bouts is rarely covered. State laws mandate that promoters provide fighters with medical insurance, but only on the night of a fight. But injuries can linger.
After one of Rothberger's fights, when he was shattered by the heavy-hittingprospect Dominick Guinn (22-0 with 17 knockouts), stitches under his eye cost Rothberger $380. The promoter would not pay the bill, he said, and after paying his manager, his cut man, and losing, again, in one round, Rothberger said he was in the hole for more than $100. 
"It's horrible, the pay is peanuts, but what are you gonna do?" Rothberger said.
In the past, there have been efforts to organize fighters, and nearly all have failed. The reason, boxing insiders said, is the sport's lack of structure.
"The world of boxing is like a world of amorphous Jell-O," the cigar-chomping fight historian Bert Sugar said. "Who are fighters going to take on? The promoters? The matchmakers? ESPN? There's no single force to rally against."
Still, some try. At a news conference last month at Bally's Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, the two-month-old Joint Association of Boxers (JAB) announced an affiliation with the Teamsters union. Together, they look to offer pensions, medical coverage and collective bargaining; to date, they claim to have signed about 150 fighters. 
But for the moment, JAB still has not figured out how the union will work, and many fighters -- especially journeymen like Rothberger -- are wary of dividing their purses among more people. When the former world champion Eddie Mustafa-Muhammad, JAB's president, went to Gleason's earlier this month looking for recruits, he dropped off a stack of union cards, said hello to a few friends, then left after 15 minutes. 
"It's going to take a little more then that to help fighters," said Bruce Silverglade, who has been running Gleason's for more than 20 years. He has come across fighters with detached retinas, broken hands and the flu who would try everything they could to trick the commission's doctors into letting them fight for short money.
Silverglade's sober gaze extends to Rothberger, whom, he thinks, is lying to himself about his abilities.
"He simply doesn't have what it takes to be a fighter," Silverglade said.
Rothberger disagrees. "It's just been a little rough in the beginning, and unfair," he said. In his last fight, for instance, his trainer never showed up. A pudgy 252 pounds that night, Rothberger stepped into the ring and was on his knees after about a minute, and a wrenching punch to the stomach sent his mouth guard rolling around the canvas like a car's loose hubcap. Rothberger, with glassy eyes, was on his feet before the count of 10, but he watched the referee stop the fight, then left the ring to a chorus of obscenities.
"I need the money," Rothberger said minutes later, alone again, in a makeshift locker room at Club Amazura, an old fight hall turned nightclub near Kennedy International Airport in Queens. "I don't want to fight, the ring is the worst place in the world. But listen to me. I'll be back. You'll see. I'm just a late bloomer. All my life I've been a late bloomer. Give me a month. I'll be back."
That fight was two years ago. Rothberger has not fought since. The commission suspended his license shortly after. He pursued acting, but that business is tough, too, he said, and callbacks have been rare. Then things got worse. He split up with his longtime girlfriend. His mother died. He said that rather than pay the Jewish cemetery on Long Island to maintain the grave he went to Home Depot, spent $80 on rocks and grass, and did the job himself.
And now he will get in a ring again, 25 pounds lighter than in his previous fight.
"I read Mike the riot act," Ron Scott Stevens, the state boxing commissioner, said. "He's borderline. This is his one last opportunity."
A week ago, when Rothberger was back in the ring at Gleason's, he was wearing sneakers as he sparred. He had come straight from work, had not had time to fetch his boxing shoes and had not slept in more than 18 hours. But for a zombie, his movements were surprisingly fluid, even speedy.
After the session, Rothberger was optimistic. He had received two callbacks for an acting job, one that required him to get a Mohawk haircut. For his comeback, he did not have a game plan, he said, because when the bell rings for the first time you forget everything. You simply have to fight. 
Win or lose, he is expected back at work after the bout to drive his fruit truck through the night. He plans to be there. "Why not?" he said. "Where else am I going to go?" 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Rothberger is one of only four fighters to be suspended by New York state.; "I've been given a second chance, and I'm fighting to win," Michael Rothberger said. (Photographs by Willie J. Allen Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



646 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Pettitte Gives the Yankees Enough to Gain a Victory

BYLINE:  By TYLER KEPNER

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla., June 25 

 BODY:
It is as if the Yankees' starters have an unspoken understanding. Since the last game Antonio Osuna pitched, on June 13, the Yankees have had no dependable right-handed setup man. In order to win, the starters have to work at least seven innings. In 8 of the 10 games since then, the starter has done that.
 The Yankees traded today for the Cleveland Indians right-hander Dan Miceli, who is a journeyman but is also an improvement over the rest of their right-handed relievers. Miceli was flying from Cleveland to Tampa tonight, so the rule stood: the starter had to go seven. Andy Pettitte was up to it. 
 Pettitte did not dazzle. He gave up 10 hits and 5 runs to the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. But he economized on his pitches and worked into the eighth inning, helping the Yankees to an 8-5 victory at Tropicana Field. 
Chris Hammond pitched out of trouble in the eighth inning, and Mariano Rivera earned his 11th save in the ninth.
Pettitte has given the Yankees consistency in June, helping them to a 14-7 record despite the weakness in the bullpen. He has lasted at least seven innings in four of his five starts in June, walking just six in 30 innings. That was a marked contrast to his opponents tonight.
The Devil Rays issued 12 walks, something they had never done in their forgettable six-year history. Starter Rob Bell walked four, reliever Al Levine walked three -- consecutively -- and Jesus Colome walked five in two innings. 
The Yankees took what they were given and scored eight runs. It was easy to forget that they left the bases loaded three times.
"It's always a battle when the game seems to be dragging on," Pettitte said. "But you never complain about the runs."
There was nothing crisp about the game. The Yankees made two errors and had three fewer hits than the Devil Rays. In addition to their 12 walks, the Devil Rays had a passed ball and a wild pitch and hit a batter.
It was almost as if the artificial turf had turned into a mud pit, with the teams slogging back and forth until one finally fell. For the Yankees, it was important to win that kind of game, especially against a bad team.
"It's harder to get up the intensity when they're dragging on," said Jason Giambi, who added that he felt fine after being hit above the knee by a 95-mile-an-hour fastball from Colome. "You really need to separate yourself and say, 'Hey, we really need to win this game and not get caught up in it."'
Pettitte kept his focus, tiring in the eighth after a long top of the inning. Manager Joe Torre acknowledged that he would not have asked Pettitte to pitch the eighth if he had more confidence in the bullpen. "But we're not going to push the envelope, pitchwise," Torre said.
That was not an issue for Pettitte, who threw a reasonable 107 pitches. Pettitte walked one hitter tonight and has not walked more than three hitters in any start this season, which is crucial to the way he pitches.
"The last couple of years, I've been throwing a lot of strikes," Pettitte said. "I feel like I've been able to put the ball where I want to. I'm going to give up some hits, so I really try to just watch my walks."
Lou Piniella, the Tampa Bay manager, is famous for his contempt of the base on balls. Before the game, the Devil Rays demoted Tuesday's starter, Dewon Brazelton, to Class A after he walked four of nine hitters. 
Piniella yanked Bell quickly today, and he is growing frustrated.
"What do we have -- 20 walks the last two games?" Piniella said. "It's tough to win that way, isn't it?"
The Yankees were bound to have an easy time with Bell, a starter they have feasted on in the past. In three career starts against the Yankees for the Texas Rangers, Bell had an 11.85 earned run average and had allowed 26 hits in 13 2/3 innings. He had also allowed 10 home runs.
The Yankees received a second chance at Bell tonight, and Torre wrote out a starting lineup with a combined average of .514 (19 for 37) and seven home runs against Bell. History repeated itself.
Bell gave up seven runs, the last two being charged to him on bases-loaded walks by Levine. He did hold the Yankees without a homer, but long doubles by Hideki Matsui and Robin Ventura drove in three runs.
Ventura's double came in a five-run fourth, which put the Yankees ahead, 7-3. Pettitte kept the lead, and his focus, in a mostly forgettable game.

INSIDE PITCH
Center fielder BERNIE WILLIAMS, who had surgery to repair torn knee cartilage May 27, took batting practice with the Yankees before the game Wednesday night. He could return before the All-Star Game break.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tampa Bay's Terry Shumpert sliding into third base as the Yankees' Robin Ventura jumped for Alfonso Soriano's errant throw. (Associated Press)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (83%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



647 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Finally, a Public Resting Place for History's Motherboards 

BYLINE:  By TOM McNICHOL

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
AT the new headquarters of the Computer History Museum in Silicon Valley, the ghosts of technologies past still roam the grounds. 
 One unoccupied room still contains dozens of worker cubicles left behind by the building's former occupant, Silicon Graphics, a computer workstation maker hit hard by the technology downturn. The empty purple cubicles mark out a kind of museum-within-a-museum, a place where the recent past suddenly turned into history. Out in the parking lot, the paint that once marked reserved spaces has all but faded, and neighboring office buildings sport a sign of the hard times: "Sublease Available." 
 Surrounded by the lessons of history, the Computer History Museum is moving forward at a considerably slower pace than Internet speed. Beginning this month, the museum is offering the first chance for the public to view some of the 5,000 computer artifacts in its new home. Over the next several years, the museum will expand in three phases, gradually assuming its mission to "preserve and present for posterity the artifacts and stories of the information age."
The slow rollout is mainly a result of the moribund state of the technology sector, which has slowed donations to a trickle. To date the nonprofit museum has raised about $54 million in pledges ($25 million of which have been collected), with little movement over the last year toward its goal of $100 million. "The fund-raising is harder than ever," said John Toole, the museum's executive director and chief executive. "But it really helps having a building, something real to show people."
The museum traces its roots to the Computer Museum in Boston, which was founded in 1979 by Gordon Bell, a longtime engineer and executive at the Digital Equipment Corporation, and his wife, Gwen. A spinoff history center in Silicon Valley was established in 1996; four years later, half of the Boston collection moved west. Since 2000, the artifacts have been stored at Moffett Field, also the home of the NASA Ames Research Center, about a mile from the museum's new headquarters. 
The Computer History Museum is still a work in progress. Of the museum's 10,000 images and 4,000 linear feet of computer documentation, most have yet to be digitized for online access, a conspicuous delay for a museum honoring the digital age. Recent visitors to the museum's Web site (www.computerhistory.org) often encountered pages filled with nothing but computer code, a glitch that certainly says something about computer history, but probably not what museum officials hope to convey.
The technology slump, however, has cut both ways for the museum. Depressed commercial real estate prices enabled it to buy its new headquarters at a discount. The building, which measures 119,000 square feet and was built expressly for its former tenant, is only nine years old. (The museum scrapped a plan to build its own space at Moffett Field when it bought the building.) 
"Silicon Graphics was building a museum in 1994 -- they just didn't know it at the time," Mr. Toole said, smiling.
The slack economy has also enabled the museum to tap some technology luminaries who are no longer quite so busy. A member of the museum's board, Donna Dubinsky, co-founder and chief executive of the hand-held-device maker Handspring, says she plans to devote more time to fund-raising for the museum once Handspring's recently announced sale to Palm is completed.
"This is an opportunity to collect and archive computer artifacts for future generations," Ms. Dubinsky said. "This stuff is lost if we don't get it now."
The museum's Visible Storage exhibit showcases about 500 of the collection's most notable artifacts. Among them is an imposing nine-foot-tall metal rack crammed with vacuum tubes and colored wires, a small portion of a 1945 Eniac, the world's first electronic digital computer. The complete Eniac filled an entire room, weighed 30 tons and could store about 200 bytes (compared with 16 million bytes on today's typical PC). 
Sitting inconspicuously on a shelf is an Apple-1, the 1976 machine that helped set off the personal computing revolution. The Apple-1 was a few mouse clicks shy of being user-friendly: for $666.66, buyers received a circuit board, a bag of parts and an assembly manual, and had to supply their own case, keyboard and monitor.
Most of the collection has been assembled through donations; the museum gets about 10 calls a week from people seeking to unload old hardware. More often than not, it has to decline computers that are too common or already in the collection. (Please, no more I.B.M. PC Jr.'s or Commodore 64's.)
Other computers have slipped into history so quickly that the museum has had difficulty acquiring them before they became expensive collector's items. Lately museum officials have taken to calling computer makers and asking them to donate their current models, before they become obsolete. Mr. Toole said that some hardware makersare unnerved by the idea that their latest device is a museum-piece-in-waiting.
"Some of them say, 'My God, we're not history yet!"' Mr. Toole said.

Fossil Expedition
Where Dinosaurs Command Respect
The Computer History Museum's exhibition of about 500 computer artifacts, Visible Storage, is open by appointment for docent-led tours every Wednesday and Friday at 1 p.m., and the first and third Saturdays of each month at 1 and 2 p.m. There is no charge. Reservations can be made by phone at (650)810-1013 or by e-mail to tours@computerhistory.org.
The museum is at 1401 North Shoreline Boulevard in Mountain View, about 35 miles south of downtown San Francisco. The main phone number is (650)810-1010. More information about the museum is available at www.computerhistory.org. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: ON VIEW -- Left, the Computer History Museum's new headquarters in Mountain View, Calif., whose exhibits include, clockwise from bottom left, the SAGE computerized air defense system from 1954; a Cray 1-A supercomputer (1976); and an array of retired PC's. (Photographs by Kim Kulish for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HISTORY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (65%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



648 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Economy Slows Growth Across Canada

BYLINE: By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: TORONTO, June 25 

 BODY:
Canada's economy is growing more slowly than expected, but the government will balance its budget anyway, Finance Minister John Manley said today in a speech to a business group here.
 Contrasting the fiscal health of his country with the swelling budget deficit in the United States, Mr. Manley said that Canada now expected gross domestic product to grow by 2.2 percent this year after adjusting for inflation, down from the 3.2 percent forecast in February. 
 Mr. Manley said that two factors were holding Canada back. One was an unexpectedly sluggish economy in the United States. The second involved the recent outbreaks of two headline-making diseases: severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, in people; and bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow disease, in cattle. SARS has dented tourism and retail sales, while mad cow disease has halted beef exports. 
 ''All of these issues add up to one simple fact,'' Mr. Manley said. ''At the midpoint of 2003, we face a challenging economic environment.'' 
 Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., said, ''At the end of the day, the single most important variable factor for Canada is what happens to the U.S. economy.'' 
 The United States is by far Canada's most important trading partner, taking about 85 percent of Canadian exports. Suppliers of automotive products, lumber and steel, among other exports, have been hit this year by slack demand south of the border, as well as by a steep appreciation of the Canadian dollar, making Canadian exports cost more abroad.
 Mr. Manley said the impact of slowing growth on the national budget would be offset partly by ''contingency'' and ''economic prudence'' reserves. Such reserves have become a regular feature of the government's budget planning; 4 billion Canadian dollars ($3 billion) are available in the budget for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2004, and 5 billion ($3.7 billion) in the next year. 
 Mr. Manley said the effect of high oil and natural gas prices on energy companies' profits, and on the taxes they pay, would provide some cushion, as would low interest rates, which hold down debt-service costs. 
 Mr. Manley is one of three politicians vying to succeed Prime Minister Jean Chrtien as leader of the ruling Liberal Party. The new party leader will be chosen at a convention in Toronto in November, though Mr. Chrtien has said he intends to remain prime minister until February. So far the front-runner is Paul Martin, who preceded Mr. Manley as finance minister. 
 Mr. Martin oversaw a transformation in the federal government's finances, from persistent budget deficits to an unbroken run of surpluses starting in 1997. The surpluses have been used to reduce the national debt, which has fallen to less than 44 percent of gross domestic product this year from 68 percent in 1995. 
 Citing measures like an increase in unemployment insurance premiums and an income tax surcharge for wealthy taxpayers that were adopted in the 1990's, Paul Darby, the chief economist at the Conference Board of Canada, said, ''We're starting from a more prudent underlying structure than the United States.'' Since the start of the Bush administration, the United States budget has moved from surplus back into deep deficit, with a shortfall of $300 billion to $400 billion expected for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30. 
 The slowing of Canadian economic growth has prompted speculation among analysts that the Bank of Canada will soon cut interest rates. In recent years, the gap between Canadian and American rates has widened as the Federal Reserve has cut rates while the Bank of Canada has raised them to head off inflation. 
 The Bank of Canada's governor, David Dodge, said last week that recent setbacks to the economy pointed to a ''very weak'' second quarter and ''some continuing softness'' in the third. The bank is scheduled to announce on July 15 whether it will follow the Fed's rate cut today with one of its own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SARS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); BEEF (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (65%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (54%); RETAIL SALES (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: PAUL MARTIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (89%) ONTARIO, CANADA (89%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



649 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: A Winery Profits as India Adapts to New Tastes 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: NASIK, India 

 BODY:
Educated in Silicon Valley but seduced by Sonoma Valley, Rajeev Samant decided to come home to these dry hills northeast of Bombay to try making wine in India, a nation where annual wine consumption works out to one teaspoon per person. 
 Six years after planting his first cuttings of sauvignon blanc from France and chenin blanc from California, Mr. Samant has a big problem: "We keep running out of wine." 
 Although wine featured in the Kama Sutra, the ancient Indian erotic classic, wine drinking has not been part of modern mainstream Hindu culture. For one thing, India's traditionally hot and spicy foods tend to overwhelm the subtle flavors of most wines. 
But Mr. Samant's Sula Vineyards is a runaway success, doubling its output each year since 2000 and still not keeping up with demand.
"Last year, our three main wines were out of the market for three months," Mr. Samant, a 36-year-old Stanford University engineering graduate, said at his winery's red-roofed Mediterranean-style headquarters. Nearby, workers labored on additions that will quadruple Sula's capacity to 159,000 gallons a year by January.
Sula's success speaks to two factors transforming India's economy: globalization and the cutting of red tape. These new forces are contributing to India's projected economic growth this year of 5 percent, a peppy rate after years of slumber. 
With 20 million Indians studying or working overseas, this formerly inward-looking nation is increasingly open to new ways of doing things -- though many of the old strictures still survive, including a ban on advertising alcoholic beverages. 
Mr. Samant uses other kinds of marketing to draw attention to his wines, including sponsoring fashion shows in Bombay, where "Bollywood," the Indian mass-audience film industry, is based; wine tastings in Delhi, the political center; and dot-com parties in Bangalore, the center of the rapidly expanding technology industry. 
"We had hundreds of yuppies tasting our wine," Mr. Samant, a former executive at the Oracle Corporation, said of the Bangalore parties. "Yahoo and Merrill Lynch were our sponsors." 
The trend Mr. Samant is riding is a fast-growing taste for wine among affluent young Indians. "A lot of young women, from 22 and up, are very much into wine, something you never used to see a few years ago in this country, which is quite socially conservative," he said. "It is more acceptable for a woman to be seen holding a glass of white wine than a glass of whiskey or spirits." 
Nasik is India's wine capital, and the vineyards spreading over the red-earth hills around the town are evidence of progress in removing official obstacles to enterprise. 
When he started, "it took us two years to get the winery license," Mr. Samant said. "Today it takes one month." 
Four wineries have opened in Nasik in the last year, and the state government of Maharashtra has 40 more letters of intent for winery projects. The state's first wine festival is scheduled for August. Remarkably, all this is taking place in a state governed by a party usually regarded as Hindu nationalist -- in other words, opposed to foreign influences. 
In the decade since Mr. Samant started experimenting here, the price of irrigated land has risen twentyfold to one million rupees ($21,500) an acre. With hot days, cool nights and soil that drains well, these mildly sloping hills are producing wines with a "new world" flavor, according to Terry Damskey, a California winemaker who is Mr. Samant's partner and adviser. 
"Raj is riding something that is going to be very successful, the way the Californian winemakers did a generation ago," Mr. Damskey, who visits Nasik regularly, said in a telephone interview from his home in Geyserville, Calif.
Analysts expect Indian wine consumption to grow 20 percent a year through 2007, echoing a trend seen among the emerging middle class in China, another rapidly developing country without a strong wine tradition. Indian consumption is expected to reach 550,000 cases this year, about 8 percent of it supplied by Sula Vineyards. 
In a country with few corkscrews, much of Sula's work is educational. For example, along with the usual suggestion that merlot be served at room temperature, Sula's brochures add that this "refers to European climates, not Indian!"
"I have been to wine shops where they keep the bottle vertical, standing on a shelf, in the sun," said Pradeep S. Pachpatil, Sula's winery manager, as he offered two visitors a taste of Sula's sauvignon blanc.
Last April, the Indian Express newspaper called this wine "the most refined Indian white -- dry and refreshingly crisp, with just a hint of its spicy antecedents." 
India's winemaking boom comes during a nationwide push to adjust the economy to the requirements of membership in the World Trade Organization, which India joined in January 1995 with a promise to lower a number of trade barriers gradually. For example, import duties on wine, now as high as 250 percent, are due to fall to 100 percent by 2006. 
Even with such high duties, imports account for 40 percent of the Indian wine market, in part because vineyards like Sula struggle to keep their wines to world standards without the benefit of a well-developed domestic network of suppliers and support businesses. 
"Our corks come from Portugal," said Ajoy Shaw, Sula's winemaker, as he walked past stacks of empty clear-glass bottles imported from France. "For the sparkling wine, we order the wire holders from Spain and the gold foils from Luxembourg." 
To prepare for more competition from imported wines, Mr. Samant has been working to build brand awareness among India's middle and upper-middle classes, who can afford to pay $9 to $15 for a bottle of his wine in restaurants. Though they represent a small percentage of the national population, he said, "1 percent of a billion is 10 million," and their numbers are growing rapidly. 
After a favorable review last autumn in Wine Spectator, the influential magazine, Mr. Samant shipped some Sula wine to Italy and to San Francisco. He does not need export orders now and would have trouble filling them if he got many, but he said that a "foreign stamp of approval" was valuable publicity at home.
"When you don't have a big wine culture, people are not that confident of their instincts about wine," he said, adding that an Indian newspaper article about Sula wine being offered in some French restaurants in San Francisco can have a big impact. 
"Getting accepted and acclaimed in California means a lot for me," he said. "Ultimately, for a winemaker, psychic rewards are very important. It is not all financial."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rajeev Samant, the founder of Sula Vineyards, has shipped wines to Italy and San Francisco.; Workers sort grapes at Sula Vineyards in Nasik, India, which has had trouble keeping up with the country's demand for wine. (Photographs by Santosh Verma for The New York Times)(pg. W1); Sula Vineyards is based in Nasik, India, where four new vineyards have opened in the last year. (Santosh Verma for The New York Times)(pg. W7) Map of India highlighting Nasik. (pg. W7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (92%); WINE (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (90%); WINERIES (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); WOMEN (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (63%); FASHION SHOWS (63%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (62%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (81%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%) SULA VINEYARDS 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (81%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: SAMANT, RAJEEV 

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); DELHI, INDIA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



650 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Moody's Cuts Sony Rating, Citing Electronics Outlook 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 25 

 BODY:
The Sony Corporation has long prided itself on its commanding position atop the high end of the consumer electronics market. But there are signs that it may be slipping from that perch.
 Moody's Investors Service lowered Sony's long-term credit rating today by one notch, citing the weakened outlook for the electronics division. The ratings cut was the first for Sony since Moody's began covering Sony's debt in 1985 and was a recognition that the company was under growing pressure to cut prices and costs to compete with its rivals in Japan, South Korea and elsewhere. 
 Sony's long-term credit rating is now A1, Moody's fifth-highest ranking. The credit agency kept Sony's outlook at negative, indicating that it may cut the rating further. Sony's credit rating, which affects nearly $20 billion of yen- and dollar-denominated debt, is now on par with I.B.M. and Intel.
The ratings cut comes two months after Sony said it lost 111.4 billion yen ($943 million) in the January-to-March quarter. The loss, which came on a 12 percent slide in sales, was about three times what analysts expected. The company's stock fell 27 percent after the earnings were released.
Shares of Sony slipped 1.8 percent today in Tokyo. In New York, Sony's American depository receipts, each representing one share of the Japanese company, rose 10 cents, to $28.46.
To turn things around, Sony's chairman, Nobuyuki Idei, promised in late May to more than double the company's profit margin, to at least 10 percent, by 2006. To do so, Sony will invest more in flat-screen televisions, DVD players and a hand-held game console that can compete with Nintendo's popular GameBoy.
Still, "deflation remains a major problem for Sony," said Naoki Takahashi, a credit analyst with Moody's in Tokyo. Sony's efforts to integrate its software and hardware divisions "are going in the right direction, but it will take more time" to strengthen profits.
The crucial area for Sony, Mr. Takahashi said, is electronics, which accounted for about two-thirds of sales. For years, Sony has been able to charge a premium for its televisions, computers and audio devices because of their stylish designs and innovations. But prices for electronics are falling so fast that consumers are having a harder time justifying paying the extra 20 to 30 percent that Sony charges.
To maintain its edge, Sony must slash costs. The company said last month that it would spend about 300 billion yen ($2.5 billion) to overhaul its electronics business during the next three years. Still, the company expects to earn just 50 billion yen ($423 million) this year, a 57 percent decline from last year, and analysts do not expect much of a recovery in 2004 either.
"Because prices are falling so fast, it's tough for them to predict what their profits will be," said Satoru Oyama, an analyst with Lehman Brothers in Tokyo. "It's getting harder for them to keep their premium on their electronics."
The downgrade by Moody's comes just as Sony plans to spend 1 trillion yen ($8.4 billion) to lift its semiconductor business and high-speed Internet services. Sony may need to issue bonds to help pay for these investments, and its lower credit rating could force it to pay more if it chooses to issue new debt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TRENDS (75%); DEFLATION (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); CD & DVD DRIVES (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (63%) ELECTRONICS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); INTEL CORP (55%); NINTENDO CO LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICES; SONY 

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); MCO (NYSE) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); 7974 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (53%) SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT; SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) JAPAN (88%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



651 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Belgium: Brewer Maintains Forecast 

BYLINE:  By Paul Meller (NYT)

 BODY:
 The Belgian brewer Interbrew stuck to its earlier forecast of organic sales and profit growth this year. 
Sales during the first half of this year have been strong, especially in Russia, Ukraine and Central Europe, the company said, while market share in France and exports to the United States declined. Analysts said that after a profit warning on Monday from a rival Dutch brewer, Heineken, the market had expected similar pessimism from Interbrew. Paul Meller (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Graph shows Interbrew share prices for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TRENDS (88%); PROFIT WARNINGS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MARKET SHARE (54%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: HEINEKEN HOLDING NV (84%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERBREW 

TICKER: HEIO (AMS) (84%); HEIA (AMS) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (84%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGIUM (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (91%); UKRAINE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



652 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Hulk Vanquishes an Evildoer For Bootlegging His New Film 

BYLINE:  By BENJAMIN WEISER

 BODY:
The powerful superhero known as the Hulk smote his enemy yesterday with help from a rather mundane source: the copyright laws of the United States.
 And this was no comic-book battle. 
 The intrigue began in early June when a bootleg version of the new movie "The Hulk" appeared on the Internet, a couple of weeks before the film was to open in theaters.
Yesterday, a contrite New Jersey man who works in the insurance business walked into United States District Court in Manhattan and admitted that he had done the deed. 
"I was not allowed to have this copy of the tape," the defendant, Kerry Gonzalez, told a magistrate judge. "I took it home. I captured it onto my personal computer."
Mr. Gonzalez said he tried to use his computer to defeat an embedded security tag to conceal the tape's origins. "Then I distributed it through a chat room," he said.
Mr. Gonzalez, 24, of Hamilton, N.J., made his admissions while pleading guilty to one count of copyright infringement, a felony for which he could face 12 months in prison when he is sentenced in September, the judge said.
The authorities would not say how Mr. Gonzalez was tracked down, but here is a thought: In the end, it was the security tag that defeated him.
The office of James B. Comey, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said in a court document that the tape of "The Hulk" obtained by Mr. Gonzalez was sent by Universal Pictures to an advertising agency in Manhattan in advance of the film's June 20 opening.
Because the tape was intended for use by only a very limited number of people in the film's advertising campaign, it was unfinished, the document says. The special effects were not finalized, and the soundtrack was incomplete. The agency was not allowed to make or distribute copies.
An agency employee, however, lent a tape to an acquaintance, who then lent it to Mr. Gonzalez, the document says. Around June 6, after Mr. Gonzalez made a digitized copy of the tape, he uploaded it to an Internet chat room based in the Netherlands, the document says. The site is not identified, but the government says it is frequented by "movie enthusiasts who routinely gather in the chat room to post and trade copies of bootleg movies."
From there, the tape became available for further unauthorized copying "by any member of the chat room, to the substantial economic detriment of Universal," the document says.
The Gonzalez prosecution, announced by Mr. Comey and the F.B.I. in New York, was hailed by the movie industry, which has long fought film piracy.
Rick Finkelstein, president and chief operating officer of Universal Pictures, said of the film's director, "Ang Lee spent years working on this film, and put his blood, sweat, and tears into it, literally, and it deserves to be seen in the proper environment that it's offered, at movie theaters."
The film opened on more than 3,500 screens, Universal says.
Mr. Gonzalez's lawyer, Matthew V. Portella, said after court that his client "knew that what he did was wrong" and was ready"to take care of what needed to be done."
Mr. Gonzalez, who was released on bond, told reporters: "I've learned a lesson, a great lesson that will teach me certainly to stay within the law, within my limits."
Mr. Gonzalez, who wore a green suit in court, said afterward, "It was my nicest suit." (The Hulk is green.)
He said he had a degree in business administration, but "no background whatsoever in computers."
"I tried to defeat something that ultimately you can't," he added.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kerry Gonzalez admits making an early copy of "The Hulk" available. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); CHAT ROOMS (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (78%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); MAGISTRATES (75%); SENTENCING (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); JUDGES (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); PRISONS (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); FELONIES (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



653 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Conflict Over New Jersey's Budget Moves to the Airwaves 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 25 

 BODY:
Listen to enough drive-time radio in New Jersey these days, and you might assume that elected officials had decided to work out the state's fiscal problems by holding a schoolyard taunting match.
 As Gov. James E. McGreevey and legislators battle to piece together the state's second consecutive austerity budget, Democratic and Republican leaders have taken to the airwaves to pummel each other with ads that cast relatively arcane budget disagreements in blunt, personal terms. 
 It began last month, when casino owners denounced the governor's plan to increase their taxes by more than $90 million, saying it would cost thousands of jobs and undermine the economy of all South Jersey. Democrats fired back by accusing Republicans of kowtowing to rich corporate chief executives and selling out working-class families and retirees. 
The thrusting and parrying have escalated, with Republicans reminding voters of Mr. McGreevey's questionable use of tax money for personal helicopter trips and a junket, and Democrats warning older voters that their prescription drug plan is at risk.
The derisiveness hit a new intensity on Tuesday, when State Senator William L. Gormley, a Republican from Atlantic County, began broadcasting ads contending that Mr. McGreevey's casino tax plan was unfairly skewed to help "his billionaire pal, Donald Trump."
It is unclear how the messages are being received by New Jerseyans who spend little time pondering the finer points of the state budget process. Eighty percent of state residents do not even know which party controls the Legislature, according to a recent poll. But pollsters and campaign strategists say that at this stage in the political season, voters are not really the point.
In an effort to gain ground in the bitter budget fight, Democrats and Republicans are actually focusing on a very select audience: the governor, the 120 legislators and several thousand businesspeople, journalists and lobbyists who shape political opinion in the state. With the entire Legislature up for re-election this fall, the parties are also using the ads to frame the coming campaign debate, and to sway undecided lawmakers by offering a sneak preview of the attack ads they are likely to face this fall depending on how they vote on the budget.
"When legislators look over their shoulders, there's this relatively small group of opinion leaders who they view as the jury they have to play to," said Jim McQueeny, a former aide to United States Senator Frank R. Lautenberg. Mr. McQueeny now runs Winning Strategies, a public relations firm. "Those are the people who hear the commercials, and those are the people the ads are trying to influence."
While it may not be unusual to hear political ads year round in a government town like Washington, New Jersey is a place where voters are known for paying little attention to election campaigns until the weekend before they vote. So it is unusual to hear so much high-volume political bombast in the early days of summer.
Yet neither party appears likely to call a cease-fire before the new budget is adopted. The state Constitution sets a June 30 budget deadline, but the two sides are so far apart on the details of a plan that Governor McGreevey said today that he had instructed state workers to prepare for a government shutdown, which may be necessary if no agreement is reached. 
Mr. McGreevey has proposed a $24.1 billion budget that would freeze aid to municipalities and increase taxes on casinos, cigarettes, cellphone bills, real estate transactions and billboards. Republicans have opposed any tax increases, but have yet to identify what specific spending cuts they would favor to balance the budget.
Republicans say the governor's threat of a shutdown is just an attempt to divert public attention from the tax increases in his proposals.
"If Governor McGreevey doesn't begin serious negotiations soon, it will become clear that he wants a government shutdown," said Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., the state Republican chairman.
The state Democratic chairwoman, Bonnie Watson Coleman -- who has compared the Republican budget plan to a dog, a B-movie, a "blockbuster boondoggle" and "the Axis of evil" -- urged taxpayers this week to pay close attention to the budget dispute, saying it illustrates core differences between the parties.
"I can't wait to go to the voters and tell them we were on their side while the Republicans sided with casinos, big tobacco and billboard firms," said Ms. Coleman, an assemblywoman. "Their 'no tax' message has really become perverted because it really means no taxes for these special interests."
As the squabbling drags on, some analysts have begun to caution elected officials that their use of combative ads and sneering language to haggle over relatively minor issues may ultimately backfire, alienating voters already dismayed by partisan politics.
"There's a war on terrorism, serious economic problems nationally and these guys are running ads about Donald Trump?" said David Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University. "Don't they realize how petty, mean-spirited and juvenile this sounds at a time like this?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FAMILY (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (52%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); DONALD TRUMP (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



654 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: L.I. Man Convicted in Killing Of a Priest and a Parishioner 

BYLINE:  By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., June 25 

 BODY:
A jury today convicted a former mental patient of two murders in the shooting of a priest and a parishioner during a morning Mass at a church in Lynbrook last year.
 After barely more than an hour of deliberation, 12 jurors found the man, Peter J. Troy, guilty of two counts of first-degree murder in the deaths of the Rev. Lawrence M. Penzes, 50, a priest at Our Lady of Peace Roman Catholic Church, and Eileen Tosner, 73, a longtime member of the parish. 
 Mr. Troy, 36, an unemployed occasional student, expressed no emotion as the verdicts were read in Nassau County Court here. Relatives of the victims expressed relief. 
The motive remained a mystery. There was no indication that Mr. Troy knew his targets. An assistant district attorney, Frank Schroeder, introduced evidence to show that Mr. Troy bought the .22-caliber semiautomatic rifle used in the killings, hid it under a coat, slipped into the church on March 12, 2002, and fired six times toward the altar, but the prosecution never suggested why.
"I always said we would walk away from this trial not knowing why he did this, and we still don't know why," said the slain priest's brother, Ken Penzes of Farmingdale.
The shootings ended only when a parishioner wrested the rifle from Mr. Troy, investigators said. Mr. Troy then fled to his boarding house room a few blocks away and holed up for seven hours as the police surrounded the site. Finally, they burst in and seized him.One officer was stabbed, leading to Mr. Troy's conviction on a charge of attempted murder.
Among the possessions the police say they found in Mr. Troy's room were a box of bullets and a yellow spiral notepad that had a smiley face on the cover and was titled "Lynbrook Church Death List."
Well before the murders, Mr. Troy had been found to have paranoid schizophrenia and was hospitalized in psychiatric wards in New York City and Nassau. After his discharge, county mental health workers were supposed to check on him. But they lost track and improperly closed his case, according to a critical review by a state monitoring agency.
Mr. Troy's court-appointed lawyer, James P. McCormack, called the trial a miscarriage of justice. Although his client takes psychotropic medicine, he was not competent to stand trial, the lawyer said. But Judge Daniel J. Cotter disagreed in a pretrial ruling.
As a defense strategy, Mr. McCormack said that he wanted to enter a plea of not guilty because of insanity, but Mr. Troy refused. In an unusual move, the lawyer declined to make an opening statement at the trial.
As character witnesses, Mr. Troy called four teachers from Chaminade, the Catholic high school in Mineola that he graduated from. They made favorable comments about his teenage years, but said they had not kept in touch with him since.
Although Mr. Troy never took the witness stand, he made the closing defense statement. He said the real culprit was a neighbor who stole Mr. Troy's credit card to buy the rifle and disguised himself in Mr. Troy's coat.
After the verdicts, Mrs. Tosner's son, Rob, 40, of Cape Cod, Mass., spoke outside the courtroom. "Peter Troy took the life of two people who truly loved the Catholic Church, a place that should have been a sanctuary of peace," he said. "It's closure in one sense that he's going to be imprisoned for life without parole, we hope. It's certainly no closure for our family, who will have to live without my mom."
The sentencing was set for July 30.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter J. Troy being taken from the courthouse last Thursday. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VERDICTS (91%); MURDER (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); WITNESSES (78%); RELIGION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); PARANOIA (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (75%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (73%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



655 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. to Buy General Electric's Life Insurance Unit in Japan 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
The American International Group, one of the world's largest insurers, is expanding its already robust operations in Japan by buying the Japanese life insurance business of General Electric, people who have been briefed on the transaction said yesterday.
 A.I.G. plans to pay about $2.6 billion for the life insurance company and for G.E.'s small auto and home insurance business in the United States. 
 Spokesmen for A.I.G. and General Electric declined to comment, but those briefed on the talks said an announcement of the deal was expected in the next day or so. 
News reports from Asia said Maurice R. Greenberg, the chief executive of A.I.G., had been in Tokyo this week. People close to A.I.G. confirmed that Mr. Greenberg had, indeed, been there and said he had moved on to China. 
G.E. has said it wants to reduce its insurance business, partly because earnings fluctuate widely at some of its units, especially the ones that insure other insurers. The Employers Reinsurance Corporation, for example, lost $1.8 billion last year after sharply increasing reserves for previously unanticipated claims. But it reported a net income of $121 million in the first quarter.
Analysts said the deal for the Japanese life insurance unit, the GE Edison Life Insurance Company, seemed logical for each side. 
"A.I.G. has the infrastructure to absorb much more business than they are already doing in Japan," said Ira L. Zuckerman, an analyst for Nutmeg Securities in Fairfield, Conn. "They will make much more profit on G.E.'s book of business than G.E. was able to do. This company was a minor piece of G.E.'s overall operation. They want to be one, two or three in any business they are in, and Edison Life was certainly not in that ranking and not likely to ever be."
Based on a $2.6 billion purchase price, Mr. Zuckerman estimated that A.I.G. would be paying about 10 times the annual earnings of Edison Life. "That's a lot cheaper than U.S. life insurance companies, which are selling for about 13 or 14 times earnings," he said. "The Japanese market, even with the problems in the Japanese economy, is growing faster than the life insurance business in the United States."
Mr. Zuckerman said G.E.'s auto and home insurance business would fit nicely into A.I.G.'s growing auto insurance operation in the United States. But he said the auto and home insurance unit was quite minor compared with G.E.'s Japanese life insurance company.
A.I.G., which was founded in Shanghai in 1919, is the dominant foreign insurer in Japan and the rest of Asia. G.E. started its Japan company in 1998 as a joint venture with the Toho Mutual Life Insurance Company.
GE Edison has been operating profitably in a market where many domestic companies have failed. In fact, its joint venture partner eventually went out of business and was taken over by GE Edison. 
The problem for the Japanese companies is that they sold life insurance policies over several decades that required them to pay higher interest rates to customers than the insurers have been able to earn in recent years in Japan's stagnant economy. As a new company, GE Edison was able to offer interest below current market rates and earn a profit. Edison later bought the Saison Life Insurance Company.
A.I.G., which was the first foreign company to begin selling life insurance in Japan, in 1973, took over the Chiyoda Mutual Life Insurance Company in 2001. When life insurance companies in Japan get new owners, Mr. Zuckerman said, they are permitted to adjust the interest they pay customers to bring it into line with current market rates. This, he said, has helped both A.I.G. and GE Edison. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE (96%); INSURANCE (92%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); REINSURANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (55%) INSURANCE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LIFE INSURANCE; AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (90%); WESTPORT INSURANCE CORP (69%); TOHO MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; GE EDISON LIFE INSURANCE CO 

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); GNE (PAR) (90%); GEC (LSE) (90%); GE (SWX) (90%); GE (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (69%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (77%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (91%); ASIA (73%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



656 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Canada Is Losing Ability to Fill U.S. Gas Needs 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, June 25 

 BODY:
For years, Canada has been the safety valve for the United States natural gas market, pumping supplies across the border to ease shortages and keep prices reasonably stable. But the recent surge in gas prices suggests that the days when Americans could look north for relief are over.
 Barring a serious slump in the American economy that would significantly reduce demand, industry experts say, the United States will need every cubic foot of Canadian gas it can get, and then some. But Canadian production is, for the moment at least, at its maximum: it will be at least five years before Canada will again be in a position to act as a swing supplier, the experts say. 
 From now until 2008, "the best the Canadian industry can do would be to keep production flat," said Mark G. Papa, chairman and chief executive of EOG Resources of Houston, one of the few gas producers to increase output from its Canadian wells last year. A fall of 1 to 2 percent over that time is more likely, Mr. Papa said.
Tight gas supplies in the United States pose a threat to economic growth, said Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, which lowered interest rates today in response to general weakness in the American economy. Mr. Greenspan told the House Energy and Commerce Committee on June 10 that the country could not expect Canada to make up for falling production in the United States, and that new facilities were needed to import liquefied natural gas from Asia, the Middle East and the former Soviet Union.
On Thursday, Spencer Abraham, the secretary of energy, will meet with top government and industry officials and members of Congress to discuss tight natural gas supplies at a conference in Washington organized by the National Petroleum Council, an advisory group that reports to Mr. Abraham. 
North American natural gas prices are quoted in dollars per million British thermal units, a measure of raw energy content. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, they peaked at more than $6.50 earlier this month, up from about $3.65 a year ago; gas for July delivery traded yesterday at $5.76. Stored supplies of natural gas are near record lows in the United States, and have also fallen sharply in Canada.
Canada now supplies 16 percent of United States' gas, double its share a decade ago. "The Canadians have come to the rescue on the supply front," said Rhone Resch, vice president for energy marketing at the Natural Gas Supply Association, a producers' trade group in Washington.
But last year, Canadian production fell for the first time since 1986. Thomas R. Driscoll, an analyst at Lehman Brothers in New York, said in a recent report that he expected a further decline of 2 percent to 4 percent for this year.
The problem is that gas reserves in western Canada are being depleted more quickly than readily recoverable new reserves can be found. Martin King, an analyst at FirstEnergy Capital in Calgary, said, "There's a growing realization that there's no good, cheap gas left." 
Hal Kvisle, chief executive of TransCanada PipeLines, also of Calgary, which operates one of the continent's most extensive gas pipeline networks, estimated that without any new discoveries, Canada's output would drop by 20 percent a year. But Mr. Kvisle said he was optimistic that western Canada would provide enough new gas to maintain Canada's output of about 17.5 billion cubic feet a day, even if producers would have to work quite hard to do it.
According to a survey of 95 companies by Nickle's Daily Oil Bulletin of Calgary, additions to gas reserves last year, totaling 3.7 trillion cubic feet, were the lowest since 1996, and down 23 percent from the record set in 2001. 
The gas industry thought it had a huge new find three years ago with the discovery of the Ladyfern field in British Columbia. But Ladyfern has been a disappointment.
The underground pressure in the field has fallen rapidly, making it more difficult to bring the gas to the surface; also, water has seeped into many wells.
According to Mr. King, output from Ladyfern has fallen by about two-thirds from a peak in mid-2002 and it alone accounts for about half of the overall decline in western Canadian production this year. 
There have been other setbacks, too. For example, development of a remote but promising offshore field in Nova Scotia, Deep Panuke, has been delayed. 
Recent high gas prices could encourage companies to move into regions like the foothills of the Canadian Rockies, where gas pools are deep, the geology is relatively complex and production costs are correspondingly higher.
According to Mr. King, drilling a single well in the foothills can cost 3 million to 10 million Canadian dollars ($2.2 million to $7.4 million), compared with just 150,000 Canadian dollars ($111,000) for a small, shallow well in southern Alberta.
But Peter Hunt, a spokesman for ConocoPhillips Canada in Calgary, said, "Last time there was a marked increase in exploratory drilling due to higher prices, all that we managed to do was to replace what we were already producing." 
EOG Resources expects to increase its output in Canada by about 8 percent this year, after a 22 percent rise in 2002, mostly from shallow wells in southern Alberta and southwest Saskatchewan.
But Mr. Papa said that most of EOG's wells were too small to interest the industry's major players, who have few promising places to turn. "A lot of companies are not able to spend their cash flows, because they're short of geological prospects to drill in North America," he added. 
Today's supply squeeze has heightened interest in two ambitious long-term projects intended to bring gas from Alaska and the Canadian Arctic to the lower 48 American states. Last week, a consortium led by Imperial Oil, Exxon Mobil's Canadian unit, completed a partnership agreement with the aboriginal peoples in the Northwest Territories and with TransCanada PipeLines for a 800-mile pipeline linking new gas fields in the Mackenzie River delta to TransCanada's main network. 
This pipeline, expected to cost about $3 billion, would have a capacity of about 1 billion cubic feet a day, equal to almost 2 percent of American consumption. An even bigger project, reaching gas fields in northern Alaska, would carry 4 billion to 5 billion cubic feet a day; the estimated cost is $26 billion. 
Both projects still face a number of hurdles, including regulatory and environmental approvals, and perhaps Congressional action, as well as financing arrangements. According to industry executives and analysts, the Mackenzie Delta pipeline is unlikely to be completed before 2008, and the Alaska project might follow two to five years later. 
Mr. Kvisle of TransCanada said that the prevailing high price for gas "gives producers more incentive than would otherwise be the case" to move ahead with such ambitious projects. But the companies know, he added, "that the price that matters is the price 6 or 20 years in the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rows of pipes at a natural gas well 60 miles southwest of Calgary, Alberta. Canada is having more difficulty finding new, easily extractable gas reserves, potentially putting a damper on the United States economy. (Bloomberg News) Chart: "An Appetite for Canadian Natural Gas"Over the last two decades, the United States has increasingly looked to Canada as a source for natural gas. But industry experts suggest that Canadian production is unlikely to grow in the next few years. Graph tracks net imports of Canadian gas, measured in trillions of cubic feet, since 1980. Graph tracks Canada's share of U.S. natural gas use since 1980. (Source: Energy Information Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) GAS (FUEL); PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SHORTAGES 

COMPANY: EOG RESOURCES INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%) EOG RESOURCES INC 

TICKER: EOG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: MARK G PAPA (77%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) PAPA, MARK; SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



657 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cutting Is Complete, Nominee Says 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25 

 BODY:
Joshua B. Bolten, President Bush's nominee for director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, said today that the administration had no plans to push for tax cuts beyond those it had already proposed.
 Testifying at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, Mr. Bolten defended the three major tax cuts signed into law by Mr. Bush since he took office, saying they were crucial to the effort to restore robust economic growth. 
 But Mr. Bolten suggested that unless the economy failed to rebound, Mr. Bush was unlikely to call for any big new tax-cutting initiatives beyond existing proposals that had not been enacted by Congress. Among them are proposals to make permanent the repeal of the tax on large estates and to reduce taxation on savings. The White House is also expected to call on Congress to make permanent a number of elements of the most recent tax cut that phase out in coming years, adding substantially to its $350 billion price over the next 10 years.
"The president at this point has no plans for a future tax cut beyond those included in his budget," Mr. Bolten said. 
Any decision to call for new tax cuts, he added, would be a result of "a cold-eyed view of the economic situation."
He played down the economic effects of the rapidly rising budget deficit, which he characterized as "larger than we want it to be" but still within a manageable range.
As the White House's deputy chief of staff for policy for the last two and a half years, Mr. Bolten has been one of Mr. Bush's closest and most influential behind-the-scenes advisers. From his office down the hall from the Oval Office, he has had a hand in nearly every major domestic policy initiative proposed by Mr. Bush, many of which had their roots in proposals drawn up in the 2000 campaign, when Mr. Bolten was Mr. Bush's policy director.
He played down the economic effects of the rapidly rising budget deficit, which he characterized as "larger than we want it to be," but still within a manageable range.
Despite pointed criticism by Democrats on the committee of the administration's fiscal record, Mr. Bolten won praise from members of both parties and seemed assured of a speedy confirmation. He was introduced to the committee in glowing terms by Senator Jon Corzine, Democrat of New Jersey, who was once Mr. Bolten's boss at Goldman Sachs, the investment banking firm.
Mr. Bolten would replace Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., who stepped down from the budget post last month to explore a run for governor of Indiana. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joshua B. Bolten testifying. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%) TAXATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (91%) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JON CORZINE (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%) BOLTEN, JOSHUA B; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



658 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Did Fed Let Expectations Get Out of Hand?

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
If markets are a matter of expectations versus reality, then the Federal Reserve learned yesterday that letting expectations get out of hand can be costly.
 The Fed had spread the idea that it was sure to ease credit again yesterday, and it did. But many had concluded that the cut was going to be bigger than it was, and a result was falling stock and bond prices. 
 "People will conclude this is probably it," Jim Glassman, a senior economist at J. P. Morgan Chase, said. He said he thought only weak economic numbers would now lead to a further lowering of the federal funds rate, which the Fed cut to 1 percent from 1.25 percent. Mr. Glassman had hoped and expected the cut would be to 0.75 percent. 
In the long run, however, the most important part of what the Fed did yesterday was its attempt -- a somewhat clumsy one, as it turned out -- to again indicate that it would be a long, long time before the Fed considered raising rates. And even with yesterday's retreat in the bond market, rates remain at extraordinarily low levels.
The Fed's attempt at reassurance was made in the third paragraph of its statement:
"The committee perceives that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters are roughly equal. In contrast, the probability, though minor, of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation exceeds that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level. On balance, the committee believes that the latter concern is likely to predominate for the foreseeable future." 
The Fed is often Delphic in its pronouncements. But this one was not meant to be that way. Read literally, however, the word "latter" would appear to refer to the last risk mentioned, that "of a pickup in inflation from its already low level." If the Fed was warning that worries about inflation could dominate future action, then that could be read as a warning of a possible rate increase in the future. 
That is not, however, what the Fed meant. A Fed official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that "latter" was supposed to refer to the entire second sentence of that paragraph, not to the last risk mentioned. That is the way that most if not all Fed watchers read it, even if in terms of syntax, it was not the correct interpretation.
In other words, the Fed was trying to assure investors that even if the economy starts to show surprisingly healthy growth, it will not raise rates and might even cut them further. After all, if worries about deflation are to "predominate for the foreseeable future," then no one would advocate a rate increase.
For some time, Fed officials, including Alan Greenspan, the chairman, have been raising the prospect of deflation, almost always cautioning, as they did yesterday, that they viewed it as unlikely. In their speeches, they have gone on to note that the Fed could seek to influence long-term interest rates directly by buying longer-term Treasuries, something it has not done in decades.
Such statements have no doubt helped to propel the bond market rally, which has cut the yield on 10-year Treasuries to a low of 3.11 percent on June 13 from 4.10 percent on March 21. That rate had climbed back to 3.27 percent by the time the Fed acted yesterday, and it immediately rose, ending the day at 3.41 percent.
That is still a low rate, of course. But the fact it rose 14 basis points after the Fed's announcement is not likely to be viewed as good news at the Fed. Nor will the Fed be happy that futures traders concluded that further cuts in the Fed funds rate were less likely, and higher bond rates were more likely, than they had thought yesterday.
The one thing Mr. Greenspan may most want is clear evidence that the economy has recovered from the after-effects of the bursting technology stock bubble. In mid-1999, he said it was impossible to be sure a bubble existed, but added that "the consequences need not be catastrophic for the economy" if a bubble did burst.
"Greenspan still sees his legacy tied up in avoiding a Japan-style deflation," said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG/Hoenig. "He staked his claim on the idea that he could let it rip on the way up and that he could do a much better job after a bubble burst than they did in the 1930's in the U.S. or in the 1990's in Japan."
The economic data yesterday reinforced that concern. Home sales figures were quite strong, buoyed by low long-term rates. Durable goods orders were weaker, but Mr. Greenspan can take heart from the fact that orders in technology industries have been rising this year, albeit from very depressed levels.
Mr. Greenspan won wide praise for the job he did in the aftermath of the 1990-91 recession. Then, as now, he began pushing short-term rates down before the recession hit and continued doing so long after it ended, as employment levels were slow to recover.
But there is one crucial difference. In the early 1990's, a major economic concern was the health of the banking industry. By pushing short-term rates down much more than long-term rates fell, Mr. Greenspan created a situation that allowed banks to earn sure profits by paying low rates on deposits and buying two-year or five-year Treasuries.
This time around, with much of the business sector weak because of bubble-related overcapacity, the strongest part of the economy has been the housing market, and its health depends in large part on low mortgage rates. The desire to keep that part strong until other sectors can recover may help to explain why long-term rates have fallen much more than they did during the earlier period of easing.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve's chairman, on his way yesterday to the meeting of the Fed policy panel, which decided to cut interest rates a quarter-point. (Reuters)(pg. C1); Traders at the New York Stock Exchange watched stock prices fall yesterday after the Federal Reserve reduced a crucial interest rate. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C6) Charts As the FederalReserve lowered interest rates . . .FEDERAL FUNDS RATEGraph tracks overnight loan rate between banks since 2000. . . . consumers got the benefit of cheaper credit . . .Graph tracks average loan rates for credit cards* and 30-year mortgage+ since 2000. . . . and kept buying, but businesses cut back spending . . .Graph tracks change in total spending between businesses and consumers from previous quarter, at constant prices, since 2000. . . . and laid off workers to reduce costsGraph tracks change in nonfarm payrolls, seasonally adjusted, since 2000. *Average annual percentage rate for all credit card accounts at banks in the United States that respond to the Federal Reserve's survey. +National average for a 30-year fixed rate on a single-family home (Source: Economy.com)(pg. C1) Chart: "Easy Money"Yesterday's rate cut by the Federal Reserve makes the benchmark for interest rates the lowest it has been since 1958. Graph tracks the federal funds rate since 1955. (Source: Economy.com)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEFLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTEREST RATES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) NORRIS, FLOYD; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



659 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: An Environmental Report Card 

 BODY:
On her way out thedoor, Christie Whitman has issued the Environmental Protection Agency's first statistical assessment of the nation's environment. The bottom line is that although much remains to be done, things are greatly improved from 30 years ago. The air is healthier, the water cleaner. But underneath the numbers, and of course unobserved in the report, lies an exquisite irony: what has brought us here are the landmark environmental laws of the early 1970's -- laws that the industries bankrolling the Bush administration have been fighting tooth and nail ever since, laws that the administration itself has tried to amend or weaken. 
 The report has already acquired a certain notoriety because it omitted, on White House orders, any meaningful discussion of global warming, a problem that President Bush seems to think will go away if nobody talks about it. In a sense, this may have been the administration's final insult to Mrs. Whitman, who has been bounced around on other issues during her two-plus years as the agency's administrator. Now most people are likely to remember her report, which she had intended as an apolitical statistical portrait, for what it leaves out rather than for the useful information it contains. 
 On the plus side, the report shows that air pollution has declined by 25 percent over the last three decades even as the country's population, economy and vehicle traffic have exploded. Fully 94 percent of Americans are served by drinking water systems that meet federal health standards, as opposed to 79 percent 10 years ago. Major rivers, like the Hudson, are no longer used as industrial and municipal sewers. Yet in a sense we have just begun. More than 125 million Americans suffer from intermittent unhealthy air, 270,000 miles of rivers and streams remain too polluted for fishing and swimming, coastal estuaries are in generally poor shape, and suburban sprawl continues to devour open space at an alarming rate.
The report is a compelling argument for preserving -- and broadening where necessary -- the reach of environmental law. Mrs. Whitman recognized as much when, in one of her last acts, she proposed tough new regulations on construction equipment and other diesel-powered off-road vehicles, a huge and lightly regulated source of air pollution. But she has spent most of her tenure playing defense. The administration moved to weaken the existing Clean Air Act without putting anything in its place. It has done little to regulate farm runoff, a major source of water pollution. And Mrs. Whitman herself has set in motion a review of the Clean Water Act that could leave over 60 percent of the nation's streams and 20 million acres of wetlands exposed to development and pollution.
Indeed, before she leaves town, and as a final legacy, Mrs. Whitman might consider taking that unfortunate proposal off the table. That could make her agency's next report even rosier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); RIVERS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); WATER POLLUTION (86%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); WETLANDS (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (73%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (72%); WATER QUALITY (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); SUBURBS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%) ENVIRONMENT; AIR POLLUTION; WEATHER; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GLOBAL WARMING; MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT; DIESEL POWER; EDITORIALS 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



660 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cut Casualties 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The juxtaposition was perfect.
 On Monday, the same day that President Bush was raking in $4 million and touting his tax cuts at a Manhattan fund-raiser, the trustees of the City University of New York met to formally approve the largest tuition hike in the school's history. 
 This is how it is in the United States these days, massive tax cuts for the very wealthy at the same time that the poor and working classes are being clobbered by reduced services and myriad tax increases of one kind or another.
For the students at CUNY, who have traditionally come from poorer backgrounds, a tuition hike -- in this case $800 a year -- is the equivalent of a tax increase. And it can be devastating. 
"A lot of students will drop out," said Lev Sviridov, president of the undergraduate student government at City College. "CUNY estimates -- and I think it's a low estimate -- that 60 percent of the students come from households that make $30,000 or less."
At City College, which is part of the CUNY system, it's believed that most of the students come from households earning less than $25,000.
Students who are working their way through CUNY (and youngsters in similar situations around the country) deserve as much support as we can give them as they try to distance themselves from the many evils associated with poverty and an inadequate education. Instead we're pushing some of them out of college.
Crystal Welch, a student at Hunter College, spoke this week of a friend who has already decided that she can't afford the tuition hike. She's leaving, said Ms. Welch, "and she was a year away from graduating."
Ms. Welch, a teacher's aide, is struggling herself, relying on student loans to see her through. "I have no clue how I'm going to pay it all back," she said. "I have no clue at all."
There was a time when it was normal for politicians to pay at least some attention to the needs and the longings of middle- and working-class Americans,and the poor. That is how we managed to get (despite conservative opposition) such vital programs as Social Security, Medicare, unemployment insurance, college loans, environmental protections and so forth. 
But now the related problems of a tanking economy and the hijacking of federal government assets by the people at the top of the economic pyramid have left little for distressed state and local governments to draw upon for short-term sustenance or long-term recovery. Which is just another way of saying there's very little left for ordinary Americans.
A recent announcement to students at Baruch College, which is where the CUNY trustees met to hike the tuition, said, "As you know, the New York State Legislature has passed a budget for next year that, due to current and projected shortfalls in state tax revenues, contains significant cuts in education funding."
So it's too bad, kids, but this is the new American reality. You'd be getting a windfall if you were one of the high rollers at Bechtel or Halliburton. The game is rigged in their favor. But all you want to do is get a decent education so you can make something of yourself. We can't help you with that.
While the president has been trumpeting his federal tax cuts, 57 of the 62 counties in the state of New York have raised property taxes. Ten counties have raised sales taxes. Another 35 are trying to, but have come up against statutory limits. Some are pleading for permission to break through those limits.
In New York City, which includes five of the state's counties, the situation is dire. Residents have been hit with the largest fare increase in history (yes, that's another tax hike), the largest property tax increase in history, an increase in the sales tax and an increase in the top rate on income taxes. Even water fees are going up.
And, of course, it's not just New York City and New York State. California might as well throw its budget into the Pacific. And Oregon is a fiscal basket case.
The CUNY students who will have to shoulder a heavier tuition load next year are part of a broad mass of Americans who are going backward rather than forward, and who are not being helped in the least by the obsession in Washington with tax cuts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); PARAEDUCATORS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); MEDICARE (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%) HERBERT, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



661 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Israeli Attack Threatens Cease-Fire in Middle East
An Israeli helicopter fired missiles at a Palestinian car in the Gaza Strip, killing two people and prompting Hamas to say that it would postpone any action on a proposed cease-fire, even as Palestinian officials said that an agreement was forthcoming. A1

President Bush pressed European leaders to cut off support to Hamas and dismissed news of a cease-fire agreement involving it and other Palestinian militant groups as irrelevant to Middle East peace. A10

New Details in Iraq Deaths
Details began to emerge about the fighting that led to the deaths of six British soldiers in Majar al Kabir, an area that was peaceful compared with regions around Baghdad where pro-Hussein forces have been ambushing American soldiers. A13

Britain to Keep Iraq Presence
British Prime Minister Tony Blair pledged to maintain Britain's military presence in Iraq and offered to send reinforcements after the killing of six British soldiers in southern Iraq. A14

Iraqi Evidence Disputed
The State Department is disputing the Central Intelligence Agency's conclusion that mysterious trailers found in Iraq were for making biological weapons, United States government officials said. A1

Liberian Violence Escalates
Fighting between government and rebel factions for control of the Liberian capital erupted again, dashing hopes nurtured by last week's cease-fire agreement brokered by the United Nations. A7

Japan Penalizes Burmese
Japan suspended all economic assistance and increased international pressure with Myanmar over the continued detention of the leader of the democratic opposition, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. A5

NATIONAL A20-30

Energy Officials Won't Let California Void Contracts
Federal energy regulators rejected a request by California to void more than $12 billion in energy contracts even though regulators have determined that widespread misconduct helped drive prices higher. A20

Prescription Drug Dispute
President Bush and Congressional leaders praise the Medicare prescription drug legislation, but across the country retirees say it is not what they expected. A1

Prison Guards Under Scrutiny
The Justice Department's office is investigating possible abuses by federal prison guards in Brooklyn against illegal immigrants detained after the Sept. 11 attacks. A18

Democrats Seek Bush Action
The Democratic leaders in the Senate and House are demanding that President Bush intervene to deliver an increased child tax credit for low-income families. A28

Alabama Tax Plan in Danger
A tax increase proposed by the Republican governor, Bob Riley, left, was supported by Alabama's black Democrats, but his veto of the Black Caucus's bill to ease restricted voting rights on felons has left the caucus threatening to abandon the tax plan in retaliation. A20

Pilot Refuses Lesser Charges
A fighter pilot who mistakenly bombed Canadian soldiers in Afghanistan last year, killing four, refused to accept the Air Force's offer of lesser charges and will face a court-martial. A20

Bill for Disabled Students
A Senate committee approved a bill reauthorizing educational services for America's 6.5 million disabled students after 18 months of behind-the-scenes negotiations. A30

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

City Budget Agreement Averts Many Service Cuts
Mayor Bloomberg and the City Council agreed on a budget that was remarkable not for how many services were cut but for how few after months of warnings about harsh cuts to city services and an even harsher doomsday backup plan. A1

The budget agreement guarantees that plastic will be recycled as soon as possible, a Sanitation Department official said. B1

Diocese Files Ruled Secret
Connecticut's Appellate Court ruled that a state judge erred last year in deciding that sealed court files containing specific allegations of sexual abuse by several priests should be opened to the public. B8

First Woman Fire Chief
Rochelle T. Jones became the first woman to be promoted to Battalion Chief, one of the most coveted supervisory ranks in the New York Fire Department, after more than 25 years and a class action lawsuit. B1

SPORTS D1-8

ARTS E1-10

CIRCUITS G1-8

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

OBITUARIES B11

Lester Maddox
The Atlanta archsegregationist who won the Georgia governorship in 1966, he was 87. B11

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Fed Cuts Rates by a Quarter
The Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates by a quarter of a point, taking them to their lowest level since 1958 in an effort to inject new vitality into the long-ailing economy. A1

Top 400 Double Income Share
The 400 wealthiest taxpayers accounted for more than 1 percent of all the income in the U.S. in 2000, more than double their share just eight years earlier, according to an I.R.S. report. A1

Mortgage Profits Understated
Freddie Mac, the second-largest financier of mortgages, said it understated its pretax profits for the last three years by as much as $6.9 billion, in part because it wanted to report those gains in future years. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A32-33

Editorials: An environmental report card; keeping Vladimir Putin on track; mosquito time; Brent Staples on learning-disabled children.
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E10
Crossword E2
Weather A26
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HAMAS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CAUCUSES (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); HELICOPTERS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); VETO (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); PRISONS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); FAMILY (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); LEGISLATION (68%); GOVERNORS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); TAX INCREASES (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); FELONIES (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (62%); MEDICARE (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (58%); BOB RILEY (54%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) ALABAMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBERIA (92%); MYANMAR (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



662 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Very Richest's Share of Income Grew Even Bigger, Data Show 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
The 400 wealthiest taxpayers accounted for more than 1 percent of all the income in the United States in the year 2000, more than double their share just eight years earlier, according to new data from the Internal Revenue Service. But their tax burden plummeted over the period.
 The data, in a report that the I.R.S. released last night, shows that the average income of the 400 wealthiest taxpayers was almost $174 million in 2000. That was nearly quadruple the $46.8 million average in 1992. The minimum income to qualify for the list was $86.8 million in 2000, more than triple the minimum income of $24.4 million of the 400 wealthiest taxpayers in 1992. 
 While the sharp growth in incomes over that period coincided with the stock market bubble, other factors appear to account for much of the increase. A cut in capital gains tax rates in 1997 to 20 percent from 28 percent encouraged long-term holders of assets, like privately owned businesses, to sell them, and big increases in executive compensation thrust corporate chiefs into the ranks of the nation's aristocracy. 
This year's tax cut reduced the capital gains rate further, to 15 percent.
The data from 2000 is the latest available from the I.R.S., but various government reports indicate that salaries, dividends and other forms of income have continued to rise since then, even as the stock market has fallen.
The top 400 reported 1.1 percent of all income earned in 2000, up from 0.5 percent in 1992. Their taxes grew at a much slower rate, from 1 percent of all taxes in 1992 to 1.6 percent in 2000, when their tax bills averaged $38.6 million each. 
Those numbers can be read to show that the wealthiest, as a group, carried a disproportionate share of the overall tax burden -- 1.6 percent of all taxes, versus just 1.1 percent of all income -- evidence that all sides in the tax debate will be able to find ammunition in the data. 
In 2000, the top 400 on average paid 22.3 percent of their income in federal income tax, down from 26.4 percent in 1992 and a peak of 29.9 percent in 1995. Two factors explain most of this decline, according to the I.R.S.: reduced tax rates on long-term capital gains and bigger gifts to charity. 
Had President Bush's latest tax cuts been in effect in 2000, the average tax bill for the top 400 would have been about $30.4 million -- a savings of $8.3 million, or more than a fifth, according to an analysis of the I.R.S. data by The New York Times. That would have resulted in an average tax rate of 17.5 percent.
The rate actually paid by the top 400 in 2000 was about the same as that paid by a single person making $123,000 or a married couple with two children earning $226,000, according to Citizens for Tax Justice, a labor-backed group whose calculations are respected by a broad spectrum of tax experts.
The group favors higher taxes on the wealthy, and its director, Robert S. McIntyre, said yesterday that the I.R.S. data bolsters that viewpoint. "Regardless of which party these 400 are in, these are the guys Bush wants to help, even though they have so much money they don't know what to do with it," he said. "How Bush feels about the half of the population that doesn't have much money is he got them a tax cut worth an average of $19 each."
William W. Beach, a tax expert at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative organization that favors lowering taxes for all Americans, said that the top 400 taxpayers made "the significant contribution" to government revenue -- about one in every $64 of individual income tax paid. Cutting taxes, he said, will prompt the wealthy to invest more in the economy's growth.
Detailed information about high-income Americans has become increasingly important in setting tax policy, because the government relies on the top 1.3 million households for 37.4 percent of individual federal income tax revenue. The half of Americans who earned less than $27,682 in 2000, paid less than 4 percent of income taxes.
All of the I.R.S. data is based on adjusted gross income, the figure reported on the last line on the front page of individual income tax returns. Interest earned on municipal bonds, which are exempt from tax, is not included. 
Over the nine years of tax returns that were examined for the new report, only a handful of taxpayers showed up in the top 400 every year, according to I.R.S. officials. In all, about 2,200 taxpayers made the cut even once. There were a few incomes of more than $1 billion a year in the group, but none as high as $10 billion. 
The names of the wealthiest taxpayers are not disclosed in the report, which was prepared at the urging of Joel Slemrod, a University of Michigan business school professor who serves on an I.R.S. advisory panel and is a leading authority on taxation of high-income Americans. 
The figures do not include the incomes of the many wealthy Americans who use shelters to reduce their reported incomes below the level of the top 400. 
In 1999 and 2000, for example, William T. Esrey -- then the chief executive of Sprint, the telecommunications company -- earned more than $150 million in stock option profits, lofting him onto many lists of the best-paid corporate managers. 
That income might have put Mr. Esrey in the I.R.S.'s top 400 taxpayers. But, as later came to light, Mr. Esrey bought a tax shelter from Ernst & Young, the accounting firm, designed to let him delay reporting the profits for tax purposes until the year 2030. Sprint's board forced Mr. Esrey to resign in March after he acknowledged that the shelter was the subject of an I.R.S. audit.
Over the nine years reviewed in the new report, the incomes of the top 400 taxpayers increased at 15 times the rate of the bottom 90 percent of Americans; their average income rose 17 percent, to $27,000, from 1992 to 2000.
Long-term capital gains accounted for 64 percent of the income of the top 400 in 2000, nearly double the level in 1992. Wages contributed 16.7 percent to the incomes of the top 400 in 2000, down from 26.2 percent in 1992, and dividends made up 2.8 percent.
A second report that the I.R.S. will make public today shows that the number of Americans with high incomes who pay no taxes anywhere in the world has reached a record. In 2000, there were 2,022 Americans with incomes of more than $200,000 who paid no income tax anywhere in the world, up from just 37 in 1977, when the report was first issued.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The average income of the top 400 taxpayers grew steadily . . ."Graph tracks income, in 2000 dollars, from 1992 to 2000. . . . while they paid less of their income in taxes.Graph tracks percentage of income in taxes from 1992 to 2000. (Source: Internal Revenue Service)(pg. A1) Chart: "Income Rising Faster Than Taxes"The 400 wealthiest taxpayers' share of all taxes rose by about 50 percent in recent years, but their share of all income more than doubled. Graph tracks top 400's share of all taxes and top 400's share of all income from 1992 to 2000. (Source: Internal Revenue Service)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); CHARITABLE GIVING (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%) TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%) JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



663 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Japan Halts Aid to Burmese Over Democracy Leader's Detention 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, June 24 

 BODY:
Japan took a new hard line today against Myanmar, suspending all economic assistance and increasing international pressure over the continued detention of the leader of the democratic opposition, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi.
 It joins the United States and the European Union -- which have tightened punitive sanctions -- in taking economic steps against the military junta. Last week the Association of Southeast Asian Nations issued a rare rebuke to a member country and demanded Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's release. 
 Also in Japan today, a special United Nations envoy to Myanmar, the former Burma, said Secretary General Kofi Annan was becoming "increasingly alarmed" at the continuing detention of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, who was taken into custody along with 19 of her lieutenants on May 30.
The detentions followed an attack by military-backed thugs on Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's convoy of cars and motorcycles as she toured northern Myanmar.
The junta said that the violence had been triggered by her supporters and that four people had been killed. The United States called it a planned ambush, and exile groups have said that as many as 70 people died.
The envoy, Razali Ismail, is the only outsider to have visited Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi in detention. "I had said then that in one week or two weeks, one might expect that she would be released," he said. "It is now past two weeks."
Dropping the diplomatic nicety with which he has spoken for three years as he tried to broker a dialogue, Mr. Razali said at a news conference: "What I can say is that where I met her was absolutely deplorable. It was not in keeping with the stature and the status of Aung San Suu Kyi as a political leader or as a national leader."
He added: "She's uncowed and feisty. She was outraged that this had happened to her. That's the Suu Kyi I've always known."
The Burmese government today denied a British government statement that she was being held in a hut on the grounds of Insein Prison in the capital, Yangon, but did not say where she might be.
Japan's withholding of aid reverses a policy of careful engagement that it has pursued while Western nations took more confrontational stands. "We have decided to stop providing new O.D.A. for Myanmar except for projects already under way," a Foreign Ministry spokesman said, referring to aid programs known as official development assistance. "We are going to tell them that we cannot help but step up pressure on the country unless they release Aung San Suu Kyi."
Japan provided $78 million in 2001 for things like medical supplies and a water filtration project. Before the current military junta seized power in 1988, Japan provided more than half of all foreign aid grants to the country. It suspended aid in 1990 after the military refused to honor the results of an election that was won by the opposition National League for Democracy.
Since Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's release from six years of house arrest in 1995, Tokyo's policy has been to provide assistance case by case.
This month Congress enacted sanctions that would bar all imports from Myanmar, freeze the government's assets in the United States, widen a ban on visas for its leaders and effectively deny aid from donors like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
Those moves strengthen a five-year-old ban on investments in Myanmar by American companies. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about new international pressure on Myanmar's military junta for the release of the leader of the democratic opposition, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, misstated the action taken by Japan. It is suspending new economic assistance to Myanmar, not all economic assistance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-MYANMAR; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (57%) UNITED NATIONS; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%) MYDANS, SETH; AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW; ISMAIL, RAZALI; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) MYANMAR (99%); JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) MYANMAR; JAPAN; 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



664 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: THE CITY BUDGET: OVERVIEW; 
CITY BUDGET DEAL CLOSES BIG DEFICIT WITHOUT BIG CUTS

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
After months of warnings of dire cuts to city services, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the New York City Council agreed on a budget last night that was remarkable not for how many services were cut, but for how few.
 With a handshake in the rotunda of City Hall, Mr. Bloomberg and Council Speaker Gifford Miller closed a deal on a spending plan of roughly $44.5 billion that closes a deficit some analysts said was the city's largest since the fiscal crisis of the 1970's. 
 To win the Council's support, the mayor abandoned $115 million in cuts he had planned, on top of the $90 million in cuts he backed away from earlier. The deal saved zoos in Brooklyn and Queens, weekend meals for the elderly, 11 child health care clinics that would have closed, and scholarships to the City University of New York. It will also restore curbside recycling of plastic and glass over the next year. Page B1. 
But the mayor was not persuaded to reopen six fire companies, or to avert scheduled layoffs.
City officials said that they were collecting slightly more in tax revenues than they had projected, and that a recent tax and aid package from Albany gave them some room to rescind cuts. But they were vague about just how they would pay for the saved services, which total more than a third of the $600 million in cuts the mayor called for in April.
Officials said the spending plan would close a deficit that the city estimated at $6.4 billion just seven months ago, doing so through a combination of taxes, cuts, federal and state aid, and a surplus from the current year. It drew a mixed reaction from budget analysts.
Many praised Mr. Bloomberg for closing what was by any measure a daunting gap. But experts were divided on the overall approach to balancing the budget: the mayor's decision to spare many city services by increasing, since December, the city's property tax, its income tax on its top earners and its sales tax.
Liberals praised Mr. Bloomberg, saying that by saving services he was preserving the city's quality of life and enabling it to continue to be a desirable place to live and do business. Glenn Pasanen, who teaches political science at Lehman College, wrote in a recent essay on the mayor's plan that he had "smartly averted a fiscal meltdown."
But conservatives warned that the higher taxes, which are hitting residents in conjunction with higher state taxes, could slow an economic recovery, or even endanger it.
The final plan differed in several important respects from Mr. Bloomberg's original budget proposals. When he failed to win permission from Albany to impose a large commuter tax, he wound up raising taxes on residents of his own city instead.
When the city's unions balked at his requests to save the city $600 million by changing the workweek, health benefits or the pension system for future employees, the mayor ordered more cuts, including the layoffs of roughly 4,000 workers. 
"The people of this city have stood up and taken care of themselves," Mr. Bloomberg said last night. "And we appreciate the help that we get from Albany and the help that we get from Washington, but I don't think that anyone can question the courage that the City Council and the administration showed in saying that if we want services, we're going to have to find a way to do it efficiently and pay for them." 
Mr. Miller, who was still negotiating the deal in the park behind City Hall an hour before the handshake, said, "We have asked in these difficult times for people to sacrifice, for people to contribute a little bit more to their city because it's the right thing to do to build for recovery."
The final handshake between Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Miller, who both wore green neckties for the occasion, came with a few just days left before the city's fiscal year begins on Tuesday. It capped weeks of budget battles and political gamesmanship. 
Earlier this month, Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican whose popularity has slipped as he has struggled to close back-to-back, multibillion-dollar deficits, pre-emptively rescinded many of his deepest cuts, including plans to cut back on garbage collection outside Manhattan, service on the Staten Island Ferry and library hours. His move robbed the Council, whose 51 members face re-election in November, of the chance to claim credit for saving the services. 
So Mr. Miller, a Democrat who is considered a possible challenger to Mr. Bloomberg in 2005, went on a publicity tour through the city to dramatize the harm he said would be caused by other proposed cuts. He ended up getting more money for most of the stops on the tour: zoos, centers for the elderly, libraries and prenatal clinics.
To the end, there were minor disagreements. The Council said it had averted $115 million in proposed cuts; the mayor's side preferred to think of it as $90 million in restorations, plus $25 million in averted cuts offset by other cuts. The Council also won an agreement to add $100 million to the capital budget for construction projects. As part of the agreement, the Council agreed to pass a so-called tort reform law sought by the mayor. 
Recycling of plastic and glass, which was suspended by last year's budget agreement, will resume: the city will begin recycling plastic again as soon as possible, and will resume glass recycling on April 1, 2004. But the city will reduce all recycling collections from once a week to once every two weeks from July through April. 
For all the fanfare that accompanied the handshake, fiscal analysts cautioned that it was still only a spending plan, and that many things could change. Less than a month after striking last year's budget deal, the mayor ordered more spending cuts, and less than half a year later, he called for a large increase in the property tax rate.
Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday that he did not expect major changes, and that barring the unforeseen, he would not need to raise taxes again or call for more layoffs. 
So far, the city has preserved its bond rating through its fiscal troubles. Robert A. Kurtter, a senior vice president at Moody's Investors Service, said: "From where we sit, we would try to avoid being judgmental about the mayor's approach. Our approach would be: Was it successful? Did it close the gap? It appears to."
Other were happy to offer judgments. Edmund J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group, said he thought the mayor's plan was overly reliant on taxes. "You've got a double weighting of taxes," he said. "This is a city economy that's struggling by all accounts. It may or may not have bottomed out. And it's been hit with billions of dollars in tax increases, state and city."
Mr. Pasanen, the political science professor, praised the mayor for reducing city spending by nearly $3 billion with relatively little impact on city services, and for his decision to raise taxes to save services. "He has pushed through a $3 billion tax revenue proposal which was brave, bold and effective, I think," he said.
Bonnie Brower, the executive director of City Project, a liberal policy group, said that she would have liked to see more business taxes and that the cuts to services should not be discounted. "A year ago our libraries were open six days a week, and now we're hearing that they are being restored to five days a week," she said. "Who does that affect? It's working people, poor people, families."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lobbyists were among the crowds that gathered in the corridors of City Hall yesterday in the hours before Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the New York City Council announced an agreement on a city budget. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (95%); BUDGETS (93%); CITIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SALES TAX (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); TAX INCREASES (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (69%); CONSERVATISM (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (54%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; SALES TAX 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) COOPER, MICHAEL; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



665 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: City Is Ready To Recycle Plastic Again 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
After scaling back its recycling program in hard economic times, New York City is poised to restore the curbside recycling of glass and plastic.
 The budget agreement reached by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, last night guarantees that plastic will join paper and metal on the recycling list as soon as possible, a Sanitation Department official said, but collection will switch to once every two weeks. Next April, according to the agreement, New Yorkers will also have to put out glass for recycling, but the schedule will switch back to weekly collection. 
 The agreement erases doubts about the Bloomberg administration's following through on a plan to restore glass and plastic recycling, which was suspended last year to save money. 
Since that suspension, administration officials, including Mr. Bloomberg, had often talked of recycling mainly as a costly indulgence. But in recent months, as the costs for disposing of traditional waste has increased and contractors have proposed more economical ways to recycle, administration officials have become more upbeat.
"This marks a sea change in thought by the mayor's administration because until now no mayor has really bought into recycling," said Councilman Michael E. McMahon, a Staten Island Democrat who is chairman of the Sanitation Committee. He said the Council would likely enact legislation tomorrow authorizing the changes.
Mr. McMahon conceded that the recycling changes were likely to confuse New Yorkers, and he said that the Council would urge the administration to include a generous grace period before issuing summonses to violators.
Environmentalists -- who had scoffed at the suspension as environmentally and economically groundless -- had grown concerned about the suspension because other cities in the state had or were considering following New York City's lead.
"The suspension of recycling from the very beginning was a bad idea, and it's too bad it took so long to get back to where we should be," said David H. Higby, the solid waste project coordinator at Environmental Advocates. "The main point is, the recycling program has always been in need of some tweaking, but never suspension."
Although the city is still mired in a fiscal crisis, the financial outlook on recycling has been changing in the past year.
A City Council staff member said the recycling changes came through because Hugo Neu Schnitzer East, a New Jersey metal salvage company, offered to take plastic at a much lower price than the city had previously paid. That lower rate was achieved through changes in sorting technology not previously available.
Hugo Neu, a Sanitation Department official said, is adjusting its equipment to take plastics, with the goal to begin plastic pickup as soon as next month. Council members had expected the plastic collection to resume on Tuesday, but administration officials would not commit to that date.
It has not been determined what company will get the glass contract.
City officials have said that when glass and plastic recycling was halted, some people stopped sorting their paper, too, reducing city revenue because the city makes money on recycled paper. The additional paper in traditional waste also drove up those costs, since garbage disposal is billed by weight.
Mr. McMahon said that Sanitation Department officials seemed to hint in recent weeks that plastic recycling would not resume this summer, despite an agreement struck last year to do so.
"The Sanitation Department has been saying that they can't get it back on time and that there were going to be problems," Mr. McMahon said. "What the administration is doing now is saying yes, we are going to abide by that agreement of last year, which was a question. We weren't sure."
Mr. Miller said recycling was morally and economically correct.
"Recycling is the right thing to do, both from an environmental and financial point of view," Mr. Miller said. "We fought hard to preserve it a year ago and this year we are successful in getting it back on track. I think this is great for the city."
The Council and mayor are also working on the final form of the "street furniture" bill.
For years, New York City has sought a way to offer public toilets to its citizens, and efforts in recent years to offer paid toilets have fallen apart. A proposal to grant a franchise to a single company to design, install and maintain bus shelters, newsstands, street kiosks, benches and automatic public toilets was debated last year in the City Council.
The Council and the administration are now poised to iron out a deal for the city to sell advertising on this so-called street furniture, said the Department of Transportation's commissioner, Iris Weinshall, in an interview last night on New York 1. The administration and the department "are really very excited about this and will be looking forward to working with the City Council," Ms. Weinshall said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RENEWABLE PLASTICS (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



666 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: THE CITY BUDGET: THE MAYOR; 
A Budget Success, but Bloomberg Gets No Respect

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Yesterday should have been Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's victory lap. He shook hands with the City Council on a budget deal that closed a $6.4 billion gap, yet left libraries open, health clinics running and trash picked up as usual. 
 And yet Mr. Bloomberg, who cut astonishingly few city services when faced with the worst fiscal crisis in a generation, is probably best known throughout the city as the man who closed six firehouses. 
 His poll numbers are the lowest for a mayor in two decades, in large part, those polled say, because of how he has handled the city's fiscal woes.
The city budget, in many ways, embodies the paradox of Mr. Bloomberg's mayoralty: When he tries to be the hardball chief executive that voters said they wanted when they elected him in 2001, he is reviled. But when he wraps himself clumsily in the cloak of a politician, the effort almost inevitably falls flat.
He has ingratiated himself with the Republican Party with generous donations, but alienated the city's conservatives by closing the budget gap in large part through tax increases. He befriended various politicians around the country, but extracted almost nothing from the one who counted the most: the governor of New York. 
He has kept crime in check, but is maligned for his expanded ban on smoking. He has appealed to a broad and diverse swath of constituents, but has alienated some groups more severely than even his most polarizing predecessors.
"I think he started with a great poker hand," said William B. Eimicke, a professor of public administration at Columbia University. "But he sort of played it the wrong way. When he came in, everyone thought he was pretty special. And he has had a tough environment to deal with." 
In some ways, as his aides are fond of pointing out, Mr. Bloomberg is a victim of timing. A national economic slowdown has hurt every municipal economy, particularly that of New York City, which is highly dependent on the fortunes of Wall Street. Further, New York State has its own financial problems.
Indeed, Mr. Bloomberg is often blamed for moves made by other governments or authorities over which he has no control, like the recent increase in transit fares.
"The mayor is always the lightning rod," said Edward Skyler, Mr. Bloomberg's press secretary. "And this mayor is no different. He always said he wanted to cut the budget without cutting essential services; that is what doing more with less is about. And that is why people chose him for the job." He added that in time, New Yorkers would acknowledge the mayor's accomplishments.
But in many ways, Mr. Bloomberg created his own public perception problem, even amid great successes. 
To begin with, he led the public down a budget road that changed considerably from the one he started on in January, when he first began discussing the budget for fiscal 2004. 
For most of the year, the cornerstone of Plan A was a huge commuter tax that was rejected by Albany from the day it was introduced. Mr. Bloomberg repeatedly insisted that he would have to cut services no matter what, but he also said that if Albany did not pass a commuter tax, draconian measures -- Plan B -- would be taken, including widespread layoffs and service cuts. 
In the end, Mr. Bloomberg suddenly sprung Plan C: a personal income tax increase and a sales tax increase, which came in conjunction with a state sales tax increase and on the heels of a large property tax increase for city residents. After insisting for months that the commuter tax -- which would actually have reduced city residents' taxes -- was the only way to go, he presented Albany's permission for the city to raise its own taxes as a gift. 
The mayor was also able to persuade the Legislature to restore large scheduled cuts in education and health care, but the only true freebie he got from the state was a restructuring of the city's debt from the 1970's, which the state will pay.
To be fair, the city's requests from the state had to be adjusted to account for the state's own budget -- an unexpected two-way legislative deal that left Gov. George E. Pataki on the sideline. 
But many of Mr. Bloomberg's moves seemed custom-made to infuriate the public. He refused to criticize Mr. Pataki's budget-cutting proposals and gave unqualified support to the transit fare increase, even as the Metropolitan Transportation Authority was coming under fire for misleading the public about its own financial condition. The new taxes, on top of various fee increases throughout the city, shocked and rankled many New Yorkers. He stood firm on closing fire stations, but gave back things New Yorkers said in polls that they cared less about, like money for cultural institutions.
He stood by and permitted the state's problems to reflect upon him, rarely using his public appearances to clarify his role or to respond to those who were attacking the city. This seemed calculated in part to protect his friendship with Mr. Pataki, who in return did little to bolster the mayor as his poll numbers sank. 
"The bottom line in my neighborhood is that folks wanted to protect city services," said Councilman Bill DeBlasio, a Democrat from Brooklyn. But, he agreed, few credit the mayor for saving services. 
Even when Mr. Bloomberg tried to make a point of benevolence, he apparently failed to seal the impression among New Yorkers. For instance, he made the unusual move of restoring $90 million in service cuts before the Council wheedled him into it, but then failed to brag about it. This left the air time to Council Speaker Gifford Miller, who leaped from one borough to the next, arguing for even more budget restorations. 
Mr. Bloomberg said last night that his budget process simply reflected democracy. At a news conference with Mr. Miller, the mayor said: "At every level of government, you start out with a set of proposals both on the income and revenue side that would give you a balanced budget. And then you get as much input as you can from all the interested parties. Sometimes those are better ideas than what you started with. Sometimes those are ideas that are more practical. Sometimes those are ideas that are better able to form a constituency."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, sealed a deal on a $44.5 billion budget plan with a handshake yesterday. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICS (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); SMOKING (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); EXECUTIVES (54%); SMOKING BANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



667 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: THE CITY BUDGET: THE UNIONS; 
Labor Escapes Givebacks, But Future Battles Loom

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg reached a deal yesterday to close this year's budget gap without getting the concessions he wanted from the municipal unions, but the mayor and the unions are sure to clash again in the future as the city faces ballooning deficits.
 Most of the contracts covering the city's 300,000 municipal workers have expired, and the unions are clamoring for raises that equal or exceed the inflation rate. If the unions succeed in pressuring Mr. Bloomberg to grant such raises, that could cause the budget deficit to soar once again to more than $5 billion, some fiscal experts say. 
 "Right now, the projected budget gap for next year is $1.8 billion, but when you factor in raises for the workers maybe equal to inflation, then you see $5 billion budget gaps on the horizon," said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed research group.
She said that granting municipal workers a 2.5 percent annual raise would cost the city $800 million in the first year, $1.3 billion in the second year, $1.9 billion in the third year and $2.4 billion in the fourth year.
Mayor Bloomberg has warned the unions that they face wage freezes unless they agree to major productivity savings to finance any pay increases.
"Going forward, we still have a $1.8 billion gap looming next year," said Bill Cunningham, the mayor's communications director. "We still need to maintain fiscal discipline. There is no money in the budget for pay raises. We need to get increased productivity. That's the only way to generate money for pay raises."
But the city's union leaders are reluctant about granting productivity increases like longer workweeks and oppose any wage freeze, partly because they are still angry about accepting three and a half years of pay freezes in the 1990's.
"We will be looking for some reasonable salary increases to keep up with what has been happening with increased taxes, increased rents and other increases," said Lillian Roberts, executive director of District Council 37, the city's largest municipal union, with 125,000 workers.
As for the mayor's push for increased productivity, she said: "Our people are already working short-handed. They're already working harder because the work force has been reduced by layoffs and attrition. How much more can they produce?"
At the moment, relations are especially testy between City Hall and the unions. Mayoral aides voice anger that the unions largely stonewalled his call for $600 million in labor savings. His aides and allies say labor's failure to agree to such savings forced him to propose many money-saving service cuts that angered New Yorkers. 
"I think the unions got off scot-free, and New Yorkers are looking at a lot of service cuts as a result," Ms. Fortuna said.
Union officials insist that they made good-faith proposals to come up with $600 million in savings. Indeed, labor leaders insist that the mayor blithely dismissed their money-saving proposals to score political points, although City Hall officials say the proposals were more public relations than substance.
With more than 3,000 city workers laid off, union leaders say it is outrageous for labor's critics to say that labor escaped unscathed.
"Only someone who doesn't understand working people would say the unions have got off scot-free," said Randi Weingarten, president of the teachers' union and chairwoman of the Municipal Labor Committee.
The teachers' contract expired in May, while the contracts for District Council 37 and the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association expired a year ago. This has caused many union leaders to question whether Mr. Bloomberg wants to reach deals with labor any time soon. They fear that Mr. Bloomberg believes he will have an easier time keeping deficits under control if he delays any new contracts and new raises, even ones paid retroactively.
Many union leaders are eager to sign new contracts because their members are growing impatient about not receiving raises. "Right now, none of us have gotten wage increases while subway fares have gone up, rents have gone up, tuition has gone up and property taxes have gone up," said Arthur Cheliotes, president of Local 1180 of the Communications Workers, representing 7,000 supervisors and middle managers. 
He said the mayor might be delaying efforts to reach new contracts in the hope that the economy, Wall Street and tax revenues surge.
But Mr. Cunningham said the mayor was not stalling. "There's no tactic here," he said. "There's a reality. The unions know it as well as anybody -- there's no money. Everybody in the city wants the economy to turn up, the sooner the better. But the mayor's not delaying any decision on raises as a tactic."
Mr. Weingarten predicted a confusing, vexing year for labor negotiations, partly because the Republican National Convention will be held in Manhattan next year.
As a result, she said, the mayor will find it difficult to drive a hard bargain with the police and firefighters because the Republicans will undoubtedly hail them as the heroes of 9/11. Ms. Weingarten fears that Mr. Bloomberg will be tough on the other unions, especially the teachers, because that will make him ahero in Republican eyes.
But Mr. Cunningham insisted that the mayor wanted labor contracts and did not want to play politics. "He would like to be able to pay city workers more money," Mr. Cunningham said. "The only way to generate more money is through increased productivity. There is no spare cash." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); MAYORS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CITIES (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



668 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Lehman Is in Talks to Buy Money Management Firm
Lehman Brothers is negotiating to buy Neuberger Berman, a money management firm, for more than $3 billion in cash and stock, executives close to the deal said.
 An official announcement is not expected this week. Lehman has been looking for acquisitions to add a less-cyclical element to its businesses. Page C2. 

Tax Burden of the Richest Declines
The 400 wealthiest taxpayers accounted for more than 1 percent of all the income in the United States in 2000, more than double their share just eight years earlier, according to new data from the Internal Revenue Service. But their tax burden plummeted. A1.

Trading Unit Lifts Goldman Sachs
The Goldman Sachs Group reported a 23 percent increase in its second-quarter earnings, propelled by another robust period of trading profit, which set it apart from other big Wall Street firms. Goldman earned $695 million, or $1.36 a share, results that were above the estimates of analysts. C7.

U.S. Expected to Sue Enron Officials
The Labor Department is expected to sue about 20 officials of Enron and its retirement plan today, contending that they breached their fiduciary duty to protect Enron employees from the huge losses they incurred when the company's stock collapsed. C5.

Regulators Deny California Request
Federal energy regulators rejected a request by California to void more than $12 billion in high-priced energy contracts signed at the height of the state's electricity crisis. A20.

G.E. to Sell Japanese Insurance Unit
The American International Group plans to pay about $2.6 billion for the Japanese life insurance business of General Electric and for G.E.'s small auto and home insurance business in the United States. C2.

F.T.C. Allows Ice Cream Merger
The Federal Trade Commission agreed to allow Nestle to proceed with the $2.8 billion merger of its United States ice cream business with Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream. The two companies agreed to sell some assets. C7.

Effort to Fight Online Music Piracy
The record industry intensified its efforts to combat online piracy, announcing that it plans to sue individual computer users who share substantial amounts of music online. C4.

Netflix Wins Patent for Business
Netflix, the leader in the online DVD marketplace, was granted a patent that covers many of the basic features of its business. C4.

Sony Under Pressure to Cut Costs
There are signs that Sony, which has long prided itself on its commanding position atop the high end of the consumer electronics market, may be slipping from its perch. Moody's Investors Service lowered the long-term credit rating of Sony by one notch in recognition that the company, led by Nobuyuki Idei, above, is under growing pressure to cut prices and costs. World Business, Section W.

Medicare Bills May Come Up Short
Elderly people who have spent years waiting for a Medicare prescription drug benefit may be disappointed by the bills widely expected to pass the House and Senate this week. A1.

Ex-Rite Aid Officials to Plead Guilty
The last two defendants in the Rite Aid accounting scandal, the former vice chairman, Franklin C. Brown, and a vice president, Eric S. Sorkin, have each agreed to plead guilty to one count of conspiracy. C6.

Why Tax Cuts Will Not Pay Off
Supply-side economics says people will work more if their take-home pay rises. They do, but only slightly, which means that tax cuts will clearly not pay for themselves. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,011.53 down 98.32Nasdaq composite -- 1,602.66 down 2.9510-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.41% up 0.16The euro -- $1.1559 up 0.0053The dollar -- 117.85 yen down 0.03 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Golman Sachs shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ICE CREAM (89%); MERGERS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (85%); ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); ENERGY REGULATION (70%); MEDICARE (70%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); ONLINE PIRACY (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); INTERNET CRIME (66%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (65%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (64%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (64%); MUSIC (61%); PATENTS (60%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (75%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); DREYER'S GRAND ICE CREAM INC (65%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); NESTLE SA (53%); NETFLIX INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); NESN (SWX) (53%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (65%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (53%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (52%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003 



669 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 4672 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. At many museums children under 12 and museum members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "ART OF THE FIRST CITIES: THE THIRD MILLENNIUM B.C. FROM THE MEDITERRANEAN TO THE INDUS," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Aug. 17). The most timely exhibition in years, as well as diplomatically dexterous and beautiful. It surveys the culture of the third millennium B.C., mainly centered in Mesopotamia, the crucible of Sumerian civilization, where art, architecture, law and writing developed with the rise of the earliest cities. The beginnings of a cosmopolitan art are in tiny cylinder seals and in figurines. The show is full of small objects that are monumental in concept. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $7, students and 65+ (Michael Kimmelman).

"BEALS, HERVEY AND HEWITT: WOMEN PIONEERS OF ARCHITECTURE AND DESIGN PHOTOGRAPHY," New-York Historical Society, 2 West 77th Street, (212) 873-3400 (through July 13). Three female photographers, saluted for their successes in early-20th-century New York. The artistic oddball was Antoinette Bryant Hervey (1857-1945), who carried out an obsessive 40-year photographic documentation of the construction of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine and produced an epic of great artistry as well as historical value. Greenwich Village was the stamping ground of Jessie Tarbox Beals (1870-1942), the best known of the three, who engagingly turned her lens on Village haunts, architecture and personalities. Mattie Edwards Hewitt (circa 1870-1956) did homes and gardens designed for the era's rich and famous, like Conde Nast and Margaret Bourke-White. Although this mix is a little forced, individually each woman is worth a salute. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; $3, students and 65+ (Grace Glueck).

"DRAWN HOME: FRITZ VOGT'S RURAL AMERICA," American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040 (through Sept. 21). During the last decade of the 19th century, Vogt, a German immigrant, supported himself by making portraits of homes in upstate New York. A homeless itinerant who preferred to sleep in his patrons' barns, Vogt made wonderfully lucid, formally ingenious drawings of farms with multiple outbuildings and of elaborately decorated Victorian showpieces with manicured grounds. The 26 drawings here tap into an American ethos that elevated domestic prosperity to something like a national religion. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Admission: $9; $7, students and 62+ (Ken Johnson).

* "DREAMING IN PICTURES: THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF LEWIS CARROLL," International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000 (through Aug. 31). A photograph is at least as much a looking glass as it is a window, and a post-Freudian world has inevitably come to see C. L. Dodgson's photographs through the looking glass of his alter ego, Lewis Carroll. This provocative show tries to put Dodgson's pictures back in their context, to stress that we have lost touch with Victorian conventions, which Dodgson largely obeyed when he photographed little girls. Childhood to Victorians represented, as the show's curator puts it, an "alternate reality, a metaphysical state of preknowledge." Dodgson, he adds "could pose his charges in adult roles, give them guns, daggers and exotic costumes, even portray them as odalisques and half-dressed waifs, because he and most of his audience believed so emphatically in their total insulation from the implications of such postures. These presentations do not so much underscore the latent sexuality of the child (as we post-Freudians would have it) as they do an obvious lack of it." Hours and admission: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7, students and 62+ (Kimmelman).

* "GREAT WAVES: CHINESE THEMES IN THE ARTS OF KOREA AND JAPAN," Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1000 Fifth Avenue, at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sept. 21). Basically a collection reinstallation with a novel mix-and-match approach, this show, spread over both the Chinese painting and Japanese galleries, traces the flow of influence from one culture to the other. Most of the action takes place in the Chinese galleries, where the art is arranged by motifs -- seascapes, landscapes, floral images -- that emerged early in China and circulated to Korea and Japan. The model proposed will provide grist for many scholarly mills in the future; the show itself is tremendous fun to look at. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

* "LANDSCAPE OF MEMORY: THE ART OF MU XIN," Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400 (through Sept. 7.) The artist and writer Mu Xin, born into a wealthy aristocratic family in China, received both a classical scholar's education and early exposure to Western culture. Targeted as a dissident during the Cultural Revolution, he was held in solitary confinement for 18 months, and he secretly wrote a series of first-person meditations now called "Prison Notes," which he carried out of jail sewn in his clothes. Under house arrest several years later, he executed a remarkable series of small landscape paintings in which traditional Chinese themes and Leonardo da Vinci meet. The paintings and some of "Prison Notes" are brought together in this lean, penumbral exhibition, organized by the Yale University Art Gallery and the David and Alfred Smart Museum of Art, University of Chicago. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; $5, students and 65+ (Holland Cotter).

"MATERIAL DIFFERENCES: ART AND IDENTITY IN AFRICA," Museum for African Art, 36-01 43rd Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-7700 (through Oct. 6). Part Art Methods 101, part Advanced Connoisseurship, this handsome, thoughtful show examines the potent connection between matter and meaning in diverse African cultures and shows them to be organically connected. The material is spiritual in these cultures, and the show's 130 mostly ceremonial objects, arranged strictly according to materials and techniques, reflect the power of that belief. Hours: Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 to 6 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students and 65+ (Roberta Smith).

"ELIE NADELMAN: SCULPTOR OF MODERN LIFE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600 (through July 20). Despite the clarion title, this exhibition is too monotonous, stiffly installed and short on drawings to do full justice to the erudite, polymorphous achievement of the Polish-born American sculptor Elie Nadelman (1882-1946). Still, don't miss this opportunity to see his work in quantity, especially the streamlined wood figures from the 1920's and the small, truculent plaster figurines, which were found in his studio after his death. Their suave economy, ineffable stillness, delicate gestures and seamless blend of historical and popular sources place them among the most complex, fully visual sculptures in Western art. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $9.50, students and 62+ (Smith).

"NOGUCHI -- THE BOLLINGEN JOURNEY: PHOTOGRAPHS AND DRAWINGS, 1949-1956," Isamu Noguchi Garden Museum (temporary space), 36-01 43rd Avenue, Sunnyside, Queens, (718) 204-7088 (through Oct. 13). More than 100 photographs and drawings re-create Noguchi's travels from 1949 to 1956, on a grant from the Bollingen Foundation. The project was for an ambitious book (never completed) on the spaces and structures -- religious, monumental, classical and communal -- of familiar as well as less-documented societies. Besides providing an elegant travelogue, the photographs give some idea of the many sources that Noguchi drew on for his work. Hours: Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50 for students and 65+ (Glueck)

* "THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF CHARLES SHEELER," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Aug. 17). This majestic progression of 90 vintage prints will cause some ripples in the big familiar pond of American modernism, within which Sheeler is known foremost as one of the chief instigators of Precisionist painting. But his most profound, original response to Cubism came through the camera, in tautly composed photographs of Pennsylvania farmhouses and barns, New York skyscrapers and Ford's River Rouge factory. Their confident fusion of abstraction and fact, reverence and scrutiny, puts them among the most radical art of their time; and they are an important precursor, at least in spirit, to both Pop and Minimalism. Hours and admission: See above (Smith).

"PULP ART: VAMPS, VILLAINS AND VICTORS FROM THE ROBERT LESSER COLLECTION," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Aug. 31). This murky exhibition showcases the small, gaudy, largely unappreciated paintings commissioned for the covers of the pulp magazines that ruled the newsstands between the wars. While ultimately a bit repetitious, their overheated depictions of sharp-jawed heroes, compromised heroines and various human and nonhuman villains highlight talents like George Rozen and Paul R. Frank. They also give vent to the dark, violent, libidinous underbelly of the American psyche, to the same degree that Norman Rockwell's paintings bless its wholesome, repressed, preternaturally sunny side. The show is essential viewing for anyone interested in popular culture past or present. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6; $3 for students and 62+ (Smith).

"ANDY WARHOL: SCREEN TESTS," Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400 (through Sept. 1). From 1964 to 1966, Warhol shot 500 short, silent, black-and-white films of artists, musicians, actors, writers, filmmakers, models, curators, celebrities and hangers-on at the Factory. The Modern has restored 277 of these screen tests, representing some 34 hours of watching time, and now 28 are being shown continuously on six screens. The subjects include Baby Jane Holzer, Salvador Dali, James Rosenquist, Dennis Hopper, Cass Elliott and Susan Sontag -- but they are of variable interest. By shooting the films at one speed and playing them more slowly, Warhol exposed the mechanics of discomposure and charisma. Some people are fascinating as they lose charisma; others are not. It has nothing to do with handsomeness, histrionics, coolness, slimness, trying or giving up. The typology of charisma is as elusive as the typology of criminality. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m; to 7:45 p.m. on Fridays. Admission: $12; $8.50 for students and 65+ (Sarah Boxer).

* "WHISTLER, WOMEN AND FASHION," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through July 13). A dandy, a wit and a social butterfly who cultivated his image as a star aesthete, James McNeill Whistler (1834-1903) had a lifelong interest in fashion and women's clothes. This show honors the centenary of the painter's death by exploring his intense, unabashed involvement with fashion. He obsessed over what his female sitters wore, choosing the clothes they posed in and in some cases actually designing them himself. For Mrs. Frances Leyland, the fashionable subject of one of his most smashing pictures, "Symphony in Flesh Color and Pink" (done between 1871-1874), he created an elegant, loose-fitting tea gown of diaphanous pink chiffon worn over a white underdress. The display includes many major images of women in their finery and several magnificent gowns of the Whistler period along with smaller oils, drawings, pastel studies, costume designs, prints and watercolors, and relevant 19th-century fashion plates. It's a fitting tribute to a bravura brush. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $12; $5 for students; $8 for 62+ (Glueck).

Galleries: Uptown

"PUERTO RICAN LIGHT: JENNIFER ALLORA AND GUILLERMO CALZADILLA," Americas Society Gallery, 680 Park Avenue, at 68th Street, (212) 249-8950 (through July 20). Ms. Allora and Mr. Calzadilla are young conceptual artist-collaborators who divide their time between Puerto Rico and New York, and this show brings both places together. The centerpiece is a 1965 fluorescent sculpture by Dan Flavin titled "Puerto Rican Light (to Jeanie Blake)," which derives its illuminating power from solar energy gathered in San Juan and stored in batteries in the gallery (Cotter).

ALES VESELY, "Infinite Point," Carosso Fine Art, 42 East 76th Street, (212) 744-5400 (through July 30). Mr. Vesely, a Czech sculptor, thinks in monumental terms. His materials are nature-made boulders and even mountains, combined with structures of steel. Fortunately, he's a strong draftsman, drawing his projects -- built or unbuilt -- with such flair that even in their two-dimensionality they have a vivid presence. Most impressive, among the projects rendered here, are drawings for "Mountain of Mountains," a sheer-sided peak rising from a "sculptural landscape" of desert rocks and mesas, and serving perhaps as a site for reflection on the balance between human and cosmic (Glueck).

Galleries: 57th Street

"MARIKO MORI: WAVE U.F.O.," atrium at 590 Madison Avenue, at 56th Street, (212) 980-4575 (through July 31). Of late, this Japanese artist, whose past work blended science fiction, fashion and esoteric Buddhism, has been designing interactive spiritual hardware, and this podlike container is her most ambitious piece so far. It accommodates three electrode-wired participants at a time, who are treated to a son-et-lumiere projection of their brain waves, followed by an eye-rinsing aurora borealis of Ms. Mori's devising. The high-tech work is fun while it lasts and must have cost someone a fortune to produce (Cotter).

DON NICE, "Paintings on Anodized Aluminum," Babcock, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 767-1852 (through Aug. 5). Since the 1980's Mr. Nice's primary format has been the totemic arrangement of images -- mostly flora and fauna and now abstract passages, too -- in cut-out structures around a central theme. Here, the theme is almost always a bright, sunny landscape quickly observed, and surrounded by a heraldic framework that includes, along with abstract passages, stereotypical images of birds, fish, flowers and animals, representing the elements of air, earth, fire and water. A departure is that he has adopted anodized aluminum for his support rather than canvas or paper, providing a lustrous, light-struck surface. This helps enliven his by now very slick and decorative formula (Glueck).

JULES OLITISKI, "Spray Paintings of the 1960's," Ameringer Yohe Fine Art, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 445-0051 (through Aug. 1). That the spray-painted Color Field paintings that Mr. Olitiski made in the 60's once seemed such an important culmination of Modernist art history is something to ponder. Was it the merit of the paintings, which have, at their best, an expansive, confectionery prettiness? Or was it the mesmerizing rhetoric of their champion, the czar of formalism, Clement Greenberg? (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

"BOYS OF SUMMER," ClampArt, 531 West 25th Street, (646) 230-0020 (through Sept. 6). If you like to look at men and you're passing by, stop in. Standing out among the crowd of pictures by more than two-dozen photographers are "Bruce in His Car," a 1981 portrait of a skinny bohemian in his big red convertible by Nan Goldin; a beefy, shirtless young football player celebrating with his team, by Brian Finke; men in leather, by Barbara Nitke; and, by Marlerie Marder, a large color image of a mixed-sex group of naked people relaxing in a California bathhouse (Johnson).

MERLIN CARPENTER, "Children of the Projects," American Fine Arts, 530 West 22nd Street, (212) 727-7366 (through July 19). Like a grunge-generation Philip Evergood, Mr. Carpenter has created a suite of brushy, intentionally clumsy and overbearingly sentimental paintings that allegorize the plight of inner-city children. A boy in huge sneakers resembles an op-ed cartoon about escapist dreams of athletic success. Two boys in hip-hop wear, one aiming a handgun at himself, illustrate suicidal tendencies nurtured by poverty. Something is being mocked here but it's not clear exactly what (Johnson).

DONNA MOYLAN, "Paintings on a Theme," Nicole Klagsbrun, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 243-3335 (through Aug. 1). Ms. Moylan's partly abstract, partly representational meditations on global strife of the last two years are visually engaging and poetically affecting. Feathery gestures and painted whorls following the grain of plywood panels morph into smoking, apocalyptic landscapes, sparsely populated by wan tiny people, trucks and helicopters. She evokes a curiously contradictory mood of playfulness and mournful anxiety (Johnson).

"ONLINE," Feigen Contemporary, 535 West 20th Street, (212) 929-0500 (through Aug. 9). Not about Web art but the traditional use of line, this 38-artist show includes too much that is only tangentially linear. But works like Daniel Zeller's intense fields, like a zany topographical map; Hilary Harkness's fantasy of sexy girl sailors, drawn with Ingres-like refinement; and Beth Campbell's branching diagram of her own possible futures suggest that a more focused investigation of the varieties of linear expression in contemporary art would be worth pursuing (Johnson).

JOEL SHAPIRO, PaceWildenstein, 534 West 25th Street, (212) 929-7000 (through July). If the sculptures of Donald Judd and Elie Nadelman had children, they might grow up to look like the best works in Mr. Shapiro's exhibition. They are the ones beautifully fabricated in various woods: airy, floating jumbles of tenuously connected boxes that visually resolve from certain angles into figures jauntily dancing or assuming graceful yoga postures. A pair of giant bronzes, however, look ponderous and overscaled (Johnson).

* DO-HO SUH, Lehmann Maupin, 540 West 26th Street, (212) 255-2923, (through July 11). Mr. Suh's full-scale re-creation of his vacant New York apartment, including outer hallway and stairs leading to a nonexistent second story, is a wonderful blend of the mundane and the miraculous. From a distance, it's a ghost house, with translucent walls, stairs, doors, and kitchen and bathroom fixtures all made from sheer, slightly metallic blue, green and purple nylon. Inside you discover that everything from the door hinges to the toilet has been realized with loving attention to detail (Johnson).

"WORKS ON PAPER," Marvelli Gallery, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 627-3363 (through July 12). Each artist in this fine show brings to paper a distinctive intensity: Dean Smith accumulates tiny, radiating pencil marks into iconic floral images; Guy Hindley draws crystalline topographical visions on mylar; Andrea Frank paints trees and animals in washes of extreme delicacy; Tim Maxwell generates swirling cosmologies out of miniaturistically detailed fragments; Nicolas Touron draws sweet, small, surrrealistic cartoons; and Kurt Lightner presents a patchy collage of shimmering color and light (Johnson).

Other Galleries

* "THE NEW WORLD'S OLD WORLD: PHOTOGRAPHIC VIEWS OF ANCIENT AMERICA," AXA Gallery, 787 Seventh Avenue, at 51st Street, (212) 554-4818 (through July 19). From the mid-19th century onward, photography played many roles in the frontier territories of North and South America: as a scientific instrument, a surveillance device, a definer of cultural identity and an aesthetic form. This beautiful show documents those uses and offers a sustained meditation on the shadow-play of picture-taking and politics (Cotter).

"NOT NEUTRAL: CONTEMPORARY SWISS PHOTOGRAPHY," Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780 (through July 19). It is not a good sign when an exhibition appears to be contradicted by its own title, but so it is with this gathering of photo-based work by nine artists born or living in Switzerland. Although beaming with competence, and impressively diverse, nearly everything operates comfortably within the well-defined borders of received ideas (Smith).

Last Chance

JOSE MANUEL BALLESTER AND CASTANEDA/REIMAN, Charles Cowles, 537 West 24th Street, (212) 925-3500 (through Thursday). In delicate gray washes, Mr. Ballester paints simplified, wide-angle views of coastal boardwalks under leaden skies, creating ominously dreamy moods. His show is titled "Setting Out." In the rear gallery, under the auspices of DCKT Contemporary, a two-person art team has produced "Floor Plan Landscape." This is an engagingly complex environment of stacked pieces of plywood and drywall, with gridded paintings on canvas and on the wall. Call it Home Depot Modernism (Johnson).

FREDERICK J. BROWN, "Portraits in Jazz, Blues and Other Icons," Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500 (through Sunday). This three-decade, 30-piece retrospective profiles a painter who has restlessly explored Modernist abstraction, Neo-Expressionist narrative and portraiture. His big, luxuriantly congested, storytelling pictures from the 1980's are the most visually rich and imaginatively expansive. His portraits of great jazz and blues musicians are, at their best, theatrically energetic. But a big double portrait of Willem de Kooning steals the show. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $7; $3, students and 62+ (Johnson).

LARRY CLARK, "Punk Picasso," Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9100 (through tomorrow). This show is a walk-in tabloid that reduces looking to rubbernecking. An autobiographical collage of photographs, newspaper clippings, confessional monologues and personal memorabilia, it ranges through the artist's bouts of drug addiction, rehab, incarceration and marriage, as well as his books and films and their reviews. The intention to equate the heartlessness and outlaw status of drug addicts with artists is clear. But self-revelation is not self-reflection, and it is hard to admire the searing honesty of someone who is an exhibitionist to begin with (Smith).

DAN FLAVIN, Paula Cooper, 534 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-1105 (through today). Six of Flavin's most radically simplified fluorescent light sculptures turn this spacious gallery into an oasis of coolly luminous quietude that verges on ecclesiastical. Believers will feel blessed. Skeptics may reason that just about any tastefully spare arrangement of lights in such a space would have a similarly dramatic effect. Either way, the show speaks volumes about the idealism of radically materialist art in the 60's (Johnson).

* "THE HEART OF THE MATTER: THE STILL LIFES OF MARSDEN HARTLEY," Berry-Hill, 11 East 70th Street, (212) 744-2300 (through today). This display of nearly 60 works is said to be the first ever devoted entirely to Hartley's still lifes. Glowingly alive, varying in style from abstraction to realism and in subject from delicate floral arrangements to the depiction of fish, a dead bird and ladies' gloves, they were painted with the same power and elan that went into his intense, vibrant landscapes (Glueck).

* "MANET/VELAZQUEZ: THE FRENCH TASTE FOR SPANISH PAINTING," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sunday). The Met has clearly called in every chip to make this show spectacular. The first rooms are a virtual survey of great Spanish painting of the 17th and 18th centuries; after that comes a virtual Manet retrospective, with some Degas and Courbet thrown in for good measure; then a virtual 19th-century American overview of the most gifted portraitists influenced by Spanish painting via Manet, Degas and Courbet: Eakins, Chase, Sargent and Whistler. The thesis of Spanish influence on French art is hardly new, but it is explored in such precise and fresh detail, discreetly, without pushing comparisons (in that respect it's not like "Matisse Picasso" at the Modern, notwithstanding the coincidental titled pairings) that you would have to be churlish not to leave edified and amazed. Hours and admission: See above (Kimmelman).

"SALLY MICHEL, MILTON AVERY: A PORTRAIT," Knoedler & Company, 19 East 70th Street, (212) 794-0550 (through today). Also known as Mrs. Milton Avery, the widow of the artist, Sally Michel used her own name as a painter in her own right. This warm memorial tribute to Michel and Avery mounts a group of informal, private portraits of each artist done by the other. A wall of Avery by Michel, who died in January, shows him painting, napping, smoking, reading, thinking, leaning. A facing wall of portraits by Avery (1885-1965) shows Michel smiling, mothering their daughter, March, wearing a new hat and painting a portrait of her husband. This small show is an engaging celebration of a highly productive relationship (Glueck).

* AMY MYERS, Danese, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 223-2227 (through today). Ms. Myers, who made her debut at Mary Boone a few years ago, makes an impressive reappearance with this show of large drawings. The single big, complicated, diagrammatic structure in each is made of countless draftsmanly parts meticulously arranged. The structures suggest many concrete things -- space ships, ectoplasmic apparitions, sexual organs, mandalas -- but remain emanations of an intensely personal exercise in hard labor and serious play (Cotter).

* DARIO ROBLETO, "Say Goodbye to Substance," Whitney Museum of American Art at Altria, 120 Park Avenue, at 42nd Street, (917) 663-2453 (through Thursday). Mr. Robleto, who is 31 and lives in San Antonio, makes his New York solo debut with a show that suggests a Nobel Prize-worthy science fair project. Its small, laboriously handcrafted sculptures are made from, among many other things, plaster, driftwood, homemade crystals, antibiotics, prehistoric whalebone dust, gunpowder and melted vinyl recordings of the Beatles, Black Sabbath and Tammy Wynette. Its themes include utopian thinking, space travel, pop culture and American childhood, all viewed with an attitude of sunny despair (Cotter).

FRANK STELLA, Paul Kasmin, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 563-4474 (through tomorrow). Big, unpainted assemblages of steel pipe bent into curves, spirals and serpentine forms, as well as sheet metal and occasional punctuations of plastic materials, fill the gallery with aggressive energy. Mr. Stella's Cubist blend of biomorphic and geometric forms has a vaguely space-age look, but it is too familiar to make these works as spectacularly surprising as he wants them to be (Johnson).

* LISA YUSKAVAGE, Marianne Boesky, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9889 (through today). Ms. Yuskavage continues to paint sly, soft-porn fantasies of pneumatic women in hazes of auto-erotic reverie. This show is modest compared to more sensational previous outings, but it's still one of the most compelling painting exhibitions up right now. Painting beautifully while spoofing painterly kitsch, exploring forbidden realms of feminine desire while subversively toying with the male gaze, Ms. Yuskavage conjures an exhilarating, mysteriously ambiguous visual poetry (Johnson).

GRAPHIC: Photos: A photograph in Marco Poloni's series "Shadowing the Invisible Man" in "Not Neutral," at the Grey Art Gallery in Greenwich Village. (Grey Art Gallery); A detail from an Earle Bergey illustration in "Pulp Art." (Brooklyn Museum of Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MILLENNIUM (75%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



670 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
A Summer Job for Your Home

BYLINE:  By WALECIA KONRAD

 BODY:
HERE is what summer looks like for Geoff Currier, a freelance advertising copywriter who lives year-round on Martha's Vineyard with his wife, Joyce, and 16-year-old son, Max.
 Starting July 18, Mr. Currier and his family will pack up and spend a week on Long Island with friends and his wife's family. The next week, Mr. Currier will be back at Martha's Vineyard bunking with his son in the tiny cabin of his 30-foot sailboat; his wife will linger on Long Island. Then Mr. Currier will head south again, this time to New Jersey to crash for another week at his daughter's house in Chatham. 
 Meanwhile, a lovely couple from Sweden will most probably enjoy evening cocktails on the roof deck of Mr. Currier's rambling three-bedroom, after a relaxing day in the sun and surf at nearby Lambert's Cove and before heading to dinner in Edgartown at one of the Vineyard's celebrated restaurants. All for about $3,000 a week. 
Call it the summer shuffle. Owners of desirable properties in resort areas like Martha's Vineyard; Newport, R.I.; and the Hamptons help make ends meet by renting their homes to vacationers. They, in turn, scramble to find living arrangements of their own, happily putting up with outdoor showers and microwave meals in return for rent money that at today's rates is nothing short of a windfall. Almost no hassle is too much for these once-a-year landlords. 
Take Ms. Currier's own former landlord on Martha's Vineyard. Before she married, Ms. Currier rented a summer house in Edgartown from a gentleman who seemed simply to disappear once she moved in. But one night during a rainstorm, the man appeared at the back door -- a soggy apparition begging to come in. It turns out he had pitched a tent in the trees in the back of the property and after about a week of wet weather, he simply could not take it anymore. 
The next year, he bought a boat and, like Mr. Currier, stayed on board while his tenants took over his house. The only problem was that the landlord did not exactly get the boat in the water before the summer rental season began. He was staying on the boat all right, but for a couple of days it was sitting on a trailer in the backyard.
"Everyone has their own threshold," said Michelle Kirby, a real estate agent in Newport who often rents her own house for a couple of weeks each summer. "There's a little voice inside everyone's head that says, 'O.K., for this price, I'll do anything.' " 
The end of June is prime shuffle time. Keep an eye out and you can spot the windows being cleaned, the lawns tidied and the boxes being stuffed and hauled off to storage. Laura Alexander and her husband, Alex, and their two daughters, 7 and 10, live full time in West Tisbury on Martha's Vineyard in a four-bedroom contemporary farmhouse they built three years ago. But each summer she and the children abandon their hometown for 10 weeks while the renters move in. 
"I find the only way I can deal with it is to start packing a month ahead of time," Mrs. Alexander said. 
In a way, Mrs. Alexander has it easy. She and her daughters will spend 10 weeks in a cabin in Maine that she and her husband bought four years ago. "It's great for the kids to get off the island, especially in the summer when it's so crowded," she said.
The rent in Martha's Vineyard helped make the Maine house possible, said Mrs. Alexander, but she declined to say how much rent she was charging. 
Her husband, however, will not be so lucky. He is a heating and air-conditioning contractor, and summer is his busiest time of year. Aside from the occasional weekend visit to Maine, Mr. Alexander will stay in a room above his office. Friends in town let him use their outdoor shower and washer and dryer. Cooking is out of the question, so Mr. Alexander grabs meals when he calls on his restaurant clients. "This time of year I'm working seven days a week," said Mr. Alexander, "so I don't care where I am."
For some homeowners, summer rentals help keep the house in the family. Ridgely Beck inherited his five-bedroom French provincial house on Newport's famous Cliff Walk back in the 1970's. When it was easy for him to travel for the summer, he often rented his home for several weeks to help offset the costs of repairs (the house is 77 years old). 
Five years ago, however, his daughter, then 10, came to live with him full time, and the summer rentals stopped. "It's hard to uproot a young child," he said. "There's so much stuff." 
But after a huge increase in property taxes this year, Mr. Beck has decided the hassles are worth the extra income. Last year the city of Newport reassessed property values for the first time in 10 years. Oceanfront homeowners like Mr. Beck found the values of their homes had doubled or tripled, said James Smith, the Newport city manager. The result was a huge tax increase for many Cliff Walk residents. 
"Even after fighting my assessment three different times, I still had a 40 percent increase," Mr. Beck said. "That's certainly an incentive to rent this year." 
So, Mr. Beck will spend July in the South of France while another family enjoys his historic home. 
"I've got a lot of work ahead of me," he said. "I haven't even begun to put stuff into storage yet." Mr. Beck will not say how much he is charging for rent, but the going rate for a house like his is $40,000 to $60,000 a month, according to a local real estate agent.
OFTEN, a domino effect takes place during the summer shuffle. 
"You'll see people with big estates rent their house for $100,000 for the season, then move into a $40,000 rental. That person moves into a $20,000 rental, and that person bunks with family or friends," said Diane Saatchi, the president of Dayton-Halstead Real Estate in East Hampton on Long Island.
One Middletown, R.I., resident knows what she means. "This happens to me all the time," she said, declining to give her name for fear that city officials will discover that she often rents her home to more unrelated people at one time than the city's rental ordinances allow. "In years past I rented to a woman who rented her very expensive house. Then I would simply move to one of the four cottages I have on the grounds. I'm the end of the food chain." 
This year the troubled economy and slow rental season in many areas of the country have put a crimp in the plans of some would-be landlords. Homeowners with a less-than-perfect location or a quirky situation are having trouble finding renters. 
Lisa Amols, an exercise instructor on Martha's Vineyard, has yet to find someone who wants to rent her three-bedroom house on two acres for $2,000 a week. She and her two children, 13 and 15, plan to camp out in Ms. Amols's 900-square-foot exercise studio on the property. (In return for the lack of privacy, tenants get as many free workouts as they can handle.) 
"I'm hoping for the ideal tenant who loves my house so much and loves to work out so much that they won't mind the fact that we're around," said Ms. Amols, who rented the house to friends last summer. 
Then there are Gina and Scott Bradley, who live in East Hampton. They have no tenants this year, but for a completely different reason. Ms. Bradley is expecting her first child any day. In previous years, however, they rented their house for July and August for roughly $20,000, then moved to a small cottage in Amagansett that Ms. Bradley has owned since before the couple married. 
"The Hamptons is the only place in the world you can get this kind of money," she said. "You get used to the extra income in a hurry." 
That is why Ms. Bradley figures the family will rent again next year. What's more, she said, the couple is actually looking forward to squeezing into the cottage, which has just one bedroom, during the summer.
"No guest rooms keep visitors to a sane level," Ms. Bradley said. "It's amazing how many of my friends from New York don't even think about visiting me until right about now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A TEMP -- Geoff Currier will use his boat when his home is rented. (Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. F1); HOME AND AWAY -- Laura Alexander turns over her Martha's Vineyard house, left, to renters for the summer. At right, she sets up an apartment above her husband's office. (Photographs by Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RESTAURANTS (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (96%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



671 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1789 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
Hidden on Maui, A Place for Art

BYLINE:  By MICHELE KAYAL

DATELINE: MAKAWAO, Hawaii 

 BODY:
IN a large, airy studio tucked beneath a mango tree, Tom Faught throws six-foot-tall pots from 1,000-pound lumps of clay, turning them on an enormous wheel. Today, many potters and painters toil in the corners of this tiny community on the slopes of Haleakala volcano on Maui, but when Mr. Faught arrived three decades ago as a teacher, he was the local art scene.
 "I won first prize at the county fair," said Mr. Faught, a self-described old hippie, with spiky white hair and a platinum stud in each ear. "No one else entered." 
 Makawao then was a barroom brawl of a town, filled with gun stores, feed depots, barber shops and saddle makers, all serving people from the surrounding cattle ranches. Makawao (pronounced MOCK-a-wow) still evokes the little-known and fast-fading Hawaiian cowboy life in its wood-shingled buildings, the horses tied up in front yards and the cowboy dolls and miniature Black Angus cattle in the toy store. Every year around July 4 there is a rodeo put on by the remaining cowboys, who are known as paniolos. (This year it is July 4 and 5.) But if cowboys are the history of this one-horse town, artists are its future. 
More than a dozen galleries line Makawao's quarter-mile main drag -- almost half of them opened in the last five years -- and art can be purchased nearly everywhere: cafes, shops and even a hair salon. Some inns are owned by artists or brag of one "in residence," and the town's visual arts center draws visiting artists from all over the United States. Painters sometimes work in storefronts and on the street, and glass blowers mesmerize onlookers by twirling liquid sand like honey on a knife.
Over the last decade or so, artists have transformed this once-dying cowboy outpost into a Sedona of the Pacific that many residents and business owners say is just starting to hit its stride. 
"As far as a local place, like SoHo used to be, that's where it's at right now," said Robert Zaleski, a painter and an owner of Gallery Maui. 
But tourists who likely know of SoHo in Manhattan and Sedona in Arizona have hardly heard of this place. An hour inland from the beach resorts that made Maui famous, and away from the busy main route to the Haleakala crater, Makawao is not on the usual tourism circuit. In this region, called Upcountry, there is not a hula girl in sight and hardly a mai tai to be had. There are just rolling cow pastures and people working the land, morning temperatures in the 50's and a softly prismed light that drifts off the sleeping volcano. Some people do find their way here, and bicycle tours that cruise through town on their way down the volcano have begun to spread the word, but it is not a destination for luau-minded travelers.
"We usually do the beach-hotel thing," said Steve Hodgson, a three-time Maui visitor from Vancouver, British Columbia, who had never heard of Makawao until the concierge at his beach resort recently recommended it. "The ambience of the place is very artistic," Mr. Hodgson said. "I like the tin roofs, and it's not overly gentrified. I could easily hang here for a week."
THE town's low profile has protected it from the commercialism that can be seen in better-known places like Lahaina, an old whaling village near the resorts that has become one of West Maui's main tourist attractions. Some Maui artists boast that Lahaina is the third largest art center behind New York and Paris, though no one seems able to say how that conclusion was reached. But there is no denying the jostling sidewalks of Lahaina and its crowded galleries selling art by celebrities like David Bowie and Jerry Garcia, well-known works like the French waiter depictions of Guy Buffet and a panoply of art from the mainland alongside Maui-made works. 
Makawao's scene, like the town itself, is comparatively obscure and thoroughly local.
"There's an emphasis on the culture of art and the spirituality of being an artist," said Annie Lawson, program director at Hui No'eau, the well-respected arts center housed in an early 20th-century estate just outside town.
Makawao's galleries vibrate with diverse work. The playful and exuberant paintings of Janet Davis recall fairy tales, while Martha Woodbury and other artists explore geometric shapes. There are, of course, some depictions of hula girls, but many artists capture the Upcountry world around them: Makawao street scenes and joyful flying cows in watercolors by Eddie Flotte, sepia photographs of Hawaiian cowboys by Randy Jay Braun and other works that celebrate the region's color and light.
Some artists invite visitors into their studios, and exhibition openings are often potluck parties where artists spread the table with homemade favorites; people are said to fight over the last slice of rum cake made by J. B. Rea, a silversmith at Viewpoints Gallery. Creatively inclined visitors can take classes themselves at the Hui, whose name roughly translates as "club of the artistic."
On a recent day, a slow-cooker full of ground meat for sloppy Joes simmered away in the former stable that now serves as the Hui's ceramics studio, and a group of potters was preparing for a lunch break that would also include home-baked lemon bars. Coffee mugs with the logo of a nearby yoga center sat drying on a multitiered cart and a bulletin board advertised "Potters needed." Anita Bachmann picked at the leafy detail on a small urn she was finishing. Scott Semple, who apprenticed with Mr. Faught, cradled a giant clay drum between his knees, rolling it and tapping it. 
"That's my thing," he said, "uncovering the acoustic properties of clay." 
Many credit the Hui with providing a nexus for the growing Upcountry art scene. Artists say they scramble up the mountain for its mystical light, which seems to compress distance; its cool breezes; its cheaper rents; and its psychic remove from the cruise ships, snorkel trips and time shares.
"It's more conducive to work up here because the temperatures are a lot better, and you're out of the craziness of the tourist towns," said George Allan, a landscape painter who moved Upcountry seven years ago, after two decades near the coast. 
Makawao's first gallery was opened in 1986 in an old plantation-style house by David Warren, a painter and printmaker who wanted a place nearer his Upcountry home to show his work. But it was years before anyone followed. It was not until a good Italian restaurant opened that Makawao began to attract "people who might buy art," said Cole Warren, who today runs his late father's gallery. 
Viewpoints Gallery, which says that it is Hawaii's largest artists' collective, was one of the next in, setting up in a long-closed theater; Hot Island Glass followed a couple of years later. Galleries continue to open
The cowboys didn't always take kindly to the artists. Mr. Faught said he won over the community by eating every day at Kitada's, a diner where a yellowing Chesterfield cigarette stand graces the counter and people have been gathering each morning for nearly 60 years over Spam and eggs to talk about problems like the wild turkey population.
But the artists received better treatment than the "freaks" (marijuana smokers) and "crystal people" (New Age enthusiasts) who came before them, said Gary Moore, the owner of HI. Hearth and Leisure and sometimes called the community's unofficial mayor. Mostly they endured only ridicule, he said of the artists. 
"We all laughed" when the David Warren Gallery opened, Mr. Moore said. "But he made it. When the others opened, we weren't laughing as much."
Some old-timers complain that the place has been overrun by out-of-towners, people they don't know and don't want to know. And despite the many authentic reminders of old Makawao -- the quaint buildings, the absence of traffic lights, the rodeo -- they mourn what they say is the loss of true cowboy life.
"We can't even ride a horse in Makawao town," said Herman-Louis DeCoite, president of the roping club, referring to the rise in motorized traffic.
Some of the artists would like to see more exposure for their art. Randy Groden, a painter who opened his own gallery, R. Groden Gallery, in February, recently printed Makawao gallery guides and delivered them personally to concierges at the high-end hotels on the coast. Kari McCarthy, a graphic artist and a painter who is one of the artist-owners at Viewpoints, is trying to start a Makawao-based fine arts magazine.
On a recent Friday morning, a dozen artists squeezed around an outdoor table at Grandma's Coffee House in nearby Keokea, ribbing their friend Frank Kane about his performance the night before in a production of Sartre's "No Exit" at the Makawao Union Church. Students from the Hui had set up easels across the street to capture the spectacular view of West Maui. This kaffeeklatsch has met every Friday for the better part of 10 years to talk about art and life, life and art, projects going, projects failing and, more recently, the sense that there is something, something very good, about to crest. 
"We've hung in there for a long time," said the painter Janet Davis. "We're in that area now where everything's great."

IF YOU GO
A Cow Town With Painters and Sculptors
MAKAWAO is 12 miles from the Kahului Airport. Weekly rates on economy-size rental cars range from $250 to $320 including fees and taxes.
The Banyan Tree House (3265 Baldwin Avenue, 808-572-9021) offers beautifully done rooms, many with colorful, Hawaiian-themed paintings by the artist in residence, Suzy Papanikolas. Cottages, which can be small, start at $85 a night; the three-bedroom plantation manager's house is $300 a night.
The owners of Hidden Falls Cottage (355 Kaluanui Road, 808-573-1173), Bob Flint and Sunny Jordan, have decorated the small cottage on their two-acre property in retro-Hawaiian kitsch. The cottage -- with a work by Mr. Flint, a muralist, in the shower -- is $125 a night. There is a three-night minimum. 
Two Web sites list a variety of Maui Upcountry vacation rentals: www.bestbnb.com and www.vrbo.com. On both simply follow links to Maui.
Once you have checked into your lodgings, you may be ready to check out some of the village's 13 galleries.
Viewpoints Gallery (3620 Baldwin Avenue, 877-646-7600; www.viewpointsmaui.com) is open Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sunday 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
David Warren Gallery (3625 Baldwin Avenue, 877-572-1288; www.davidwarrengallery.com) is open daily, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Hot Island Glass (3620 Baldwin Avenue, 808-572-4527; www.hotislandglass.com) is open daily, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; glass blowing, 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
Hui No'eau Visual Arts Center (2841 Baldwin Avenue, 808-572-6560; www.huinoeau.com). The gallery is open daily, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. A schedule of classes is available at the Web site.

GRAPHIC: Photos: LOCAL COLOR -- A detail of "High Noon Makawao Town," an oil by Ronaldo Macedo, a Maui artist. (Matthew Thayer for The New York Times)(pg. F1); PIONEER -- Tom Faught was a rarity when he arrived to make art in Makawao 30 years ago. "I won first prize at the county fair," he said. "No one else entered." (Matthew Thayer for The New York Times); UPCOUNTRY -- Glenn Souza, a ranch foreman in Makawao. (Matthew Thayer for The New York Times)(pg. F3) Map of Hawaii highlighting Makawao. (pg. F3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (78%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); HORSES (75%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (74%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (73%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (69%); BARBER SHOPS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); TOYS & GAMES (67%); RESORTS (63%); MISC LEATHER GOODS MFG (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEDONA, AZ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) HAWAII, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



672 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: DANCE REVIEW; 
Pillow Talk, Pillow Fight, All French, Of Course

BYLINE:  By ANNA KISSELGOFF

DATELINE: DURHAM, N.C., June 25 

 BODY:
The nascent modern-dance boom in France was a well-kept secret in 1983 when the American Dance Festival presented five young French troupes at its summer home here at Duke University. 
 La Maison, an uninhibited and compelling company directed by the choreographer Nasser Martin-Gousset, is the latest entry in the mind-boggling range of French dance that the festival has introduced to Americans over the last 20 years. 
 "Bleeding Stone," which La Maison presented on Tuesday night at the university's Reynolds Industries Theater, initially suggests a movie that is not a movie: a serio-comic stage version of a French film by Eric Rohmer. 
Three men and a woman sit around a living room, engaging in French wordplay about who is sleeping with whom or how to pass the day. Casually dressed, they contrast with an elegant woman in a red dress who intrudes upon the group and stirs up passions among the men. Aggression becomes a wildly imaginative pillow fight on a sofa. Possessiveness in the first woman turns into flying leaps from an armchair to the same sofa. In a sensual solo with autoerotic overtones, a man licks honey off his body. 
Like Mr. Rohmer's "moral" tales, "Bleeding Stone" comments on possible betrayals in human relations, and the setting is similarly French bourgeois. One man is in tennis shorts and sneakers (later in jogging shorts), and leisure time, rather than unemployment among the working class, hangs heavy in the air.
There is even a little Brahms thrown in for background music, although most of the accompanying tape is by the Rolling Stones, propulsive music for propulsive dancing. 
In the end, "Bleeding Stone" is a wildly original work and is indebted less to any specific French arts figure than to a general sensibility. At least three dance generations down from the French choreographers who first came to the festival in 1983, including Maguy Marin, Mr. Martin-Gousset nonetheless shares their sense of the absurd. 
Like them, he also places his nonlinear narrative in a closed space. Sartre's "No Exit" has had a stronger influence than expected. 
Yet within the emotional claustrophobia embodied in the living room, the action is unpredictable and dynamic. The structure uses free association and dissociation in its imagery. The work is also uneven in its set pieces. 
Mr. Martin-Gousset has worked with Josef Nadj, more a theatrical director than a conventional choreographer. But unlike Mr. Nadj, he is less concerned with a theatrical image than its expression through evocative movement. 
Some of the performers are apparently actors rather than dancers: Samuel Dutertre, the honey man, and Emmanuel Lescoulie, in shorts. Sophie Lenoir, a fearless, bawdy blonde who flies around the furniture and then sings out a somewhat incomprehensible lament about Ken and Barbie dolls while mopping the floor, is multitalented. So is Mr. Martin-Gousset, who can do a fashion-model strut in sunglasses and a terry cloth robe and then pummel the sofa and Mr. Dutertre as his rival in a swift thrust-and-parry duet. It is a thrilling acrobatic duel set in motion by Elizabeth Valentini as the woman in red whose angular, head-rotating solo is full of dejection. She changes the atmosphere. 
Red, the choreographer said in a talk after the performance, is the color of danger. As a child, he saw a drop of blood on a stone and assumed the stone was bleeding: hence the title. A clip from "Gone With the Wind" is included because it is his favorite film. There are also film images of a heart operation, related to the emotions on view. Mostly, however, a film behind the sofa shows trees moving in the breeze behind a gate. The dancers are never seen in this open air, although they materialize humorously from behind the sofa. 
When Mr. Dutertre spreads honey on the floor and himself and then skates on the sticky surface, he creates his own world. In a solo that repelled some but was full of elegance at the same time, he conjured an image of total escape.
A member of the audience told the choreographer that she thought that the entire work was the equivalent of reality television. In a way, she was right. "Bleeding Stone" is highly staged and a picture of how people live. 
To celebrate the 20th anniversary of the debut of the first five French companies, Charles Reinhart and his wife, Stephanie Reinhart, the festival's directors, planned a mini-French festival for this year. The entire season is now dedicated to Ms. Reinhart, who died in September. (A memorial tribute will be held tomorrow afternoon at Duke.)
The other French choreographers include Dominique Boivin (July 14-16) and Ms. Marin, whose "One Can't Eat Applause" was seen last week. She also presented "Grosse Fugue," set to Beethoven, on Sunday. 
Four women (Preciosa Gil, Sylvie Pabiot, Cathy Polo and Brigitte Valverde) often danced in unison, with one pair echoing the other in canon while passing through sharply isolated shoulder movements. The choreography's structure grew more complex and the movement quirkier (hiccuping back on a heel, bodies folding up like accordions in repeated collapses). Ms. Marin seemed to approach the music from a distance rather than plunge into it, although the impressively precise dancers looked emotionally as well as physically spent at the end.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Nasser Martin-Gousset, Sophie Lenoir and Samuel Dutertre, ready for action in Mr. Martin-Gousset's propulsive "Bleeding Stone." (Bruce R. Feeley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); DANCE (90%); FILM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); DANCERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); WOMEN (74%); MUSIC (69%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (58%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



673 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Amid a Glut, the Biggest Ship Ever Rises 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: SAINT-NAZAIRE, France, June 20 

 BODY:
In January it will carry up to 2,620 passengers, in considerable luxury, across the Atlantic. But for now the immense steel carcass resembles little more than a huge anthill.
 Some 3,000 workers scramble over the hull of the Queen Mary 2, spackling, drilling and laying air-conditioning ducts between its 17 decks. In the coming weeks, cabins and swimming pools will be installed and restaurants capable of serving thousands at a sitting outfitted. Then, in September, the ship, the largest and costliest ocean liner ever built, is to set sail on trial runs off the coast of Scotland. 
 There will be a spa, a Veuve Clicquot Champagne bar and a planetarium. There will also be a casino on board. But the biggest gamble is the 1,132-foot Queen Mary itself. It is larger and heavier than a Nimitz-class nuclear aircraft carrier and being built for $800 million by the French shipbuilder Alstom Marine for the venerable Cunard Line, now a unit of the Carnival Corporation. 
Carnival is betting that the global appetite for ocean cruises, most notably the trans-Atlantic runs between Southampton, England, and New York that will be the Queen Mary's specialty, will boom again when economies recover and the fear of possible terrorist attacks diminishes.
 On Wednesday, Carnival reported that slowed bookings and price cuts because of the war in Iraq had caused second-quarter profit to fall 34 percent, to $127.8 million, or 19 cents a share, from $194.2 million, or 33 cents, a year earlier. But revenue rose 35 percent, to $1.3 billion. It also said second-half earnings would be lower than analysts' forecasts. 
For Alstom, the Queen Mary is to be a signal that the yard can fend off low-cost competitors from Japan and South Korea in the race for complex and expensive vessels.
After trips to Florida, the Caribbean and South America next winter, the Queen Mary 2 will make its inaugural voyage to New York in April. There, it will be received with considerable fanfare, and will meet up with the Queen Elizabeth 2, the liner it is intended to replace. It will be the first time since March 1940 that two liners bearing those names will berth together in New York. (The first Queen Mary is now a floating hotel in Long Beach, Calif.; the first Elizabeth was retired and auctioned off, and was set to become a floating university until it caught fire and was scrapped in the early 1970's.)
The QE2 will cede the regular Atlantic runs to the QM2 and turn to regional cruises.
Cunard toyed with ideas for the QM2 for more than 18 months before soliciting bids in 1999 and ultimately awarding the contract to Alstom. It was the first time construction of a Cunard flagship had gone to a non-British yard.
"They wanted a mix of the old Queen Mary, some elements of the Normandie and the Queen Elizabeth," said Jean-Jacques Gatepaille, the senior naval architect at Alstom who worked on the original design. Unlike most modern cruise ships, floating, boxy skyscrapers with cabins stacked so high you wonder why they do not topple over, the QM2 was designed as a sleek trans-Atlantic liner with a sloped facade leading up to the bridge and a stepped fantail with decks for lounging.
Some naval architects criticized the single funnel compared with the two or three found on classic liners. Mr. Gatepaille said a second would have meant shifting large parts of the ship's machinery, entailing significant cost overruns.
"It is the first time in 40 years that a trans-Atlantic liner is being built for regular service," he said over a lunch of salmon in the dining room at Alstom's offices in this port city, in France's northwest.
And it is quite an undertaking.
Stood on end, the ship will be taller than the Statue of Liberty. As tall as a 21-story building, it will clear the Verrazano Bridge at high tide with little room to spare. It will steam at 30 knots, roughly 34 miles an hour, crossing the Atlantic in 6 days, with cabins of up to 2,250 square feet.
"It's little different from working on land," said Gilles Charpentier, who plastered the walls of an on-board lecture hall one recent afternoon, as electricians laid cable and carpenters glued wood paneling. Mr. Charpentier said the company he works for, which is based in Paris, would spend the next four to five months on work aboard the ship.
Carnival acquired Cunard in 1998 from Kvaerner, a Norwegian shipbuilder, and plans for the Queen Mary were soon announced. But the luxury segment of the cruise industry, in which Cunard is an icon, weakened sharply afterward as the souring of the global economy, the war in Iraq and fears of terrorist attacks and diseases like SARS took their toll on the travel industry.
In April, Carnival's shareholders approved a $5.5 billion takeover of P&O Princess Cruises, a British rival, thwarting an earlier agreement to merge P&O with Royal Caribbean International.
The industry has been struggling to fill a glut of new ships by offering bargain fares. In April, Carnival said it would add a new ship to its Princess Cruise line, take one out of service at its Holland America subsidiary and delay the delivery of three others. The move reflected greater industry caution that some analysts say could help in the long term.
Last year, the cruise industry, which is based mainly in North America, ordered only 4 new vessels, after only 2 in 2001, compared with 13 at the height of the boom in 1999. So in 2004 and 2005, cruise liner capacity is expected to grow by less then 4 percent, half the rate of growth in the last two decades.
Robin M. Farley, a UBS Warburg analyst, said in a report this month that the "North American capacity outlook is better than it appears."
That is little consolation to the shipyard workers at Alstom Marine.
Alstom was awash in orders in the late 1990's as the North American cruise market exploded, and cruise lines ordered dozens of new vessels at European shipyards, which were seeking to overcome competition from low-cost yards in South Korea and Japan by specializing in high-value vessels like liquid natural gas tankers, research vessels and cruise liners.
But Europe's shipyards are floundering. Meyer Werft of Germany and Kvaerner Masa-Yards of Finland both recently announced plans to idle employees. Thousands of suppliers are also hurting. Roughly four-fifths of the value of liners like the Queen Mary comes from suppliers like Mr. Charpentier's plastering company that deliver everything from diesel engines and gas turbines to the furniture for luxury suites.
The yards are also hurting from the weakness of the dollar, which make ships purchased for dollars in European yards more expensive. When Royal Caribbean announced this month that it had provisionally ordered two new giant cruise ships, larger than the Queen Mary and capable of transporting up to 3,600 passengers each, from Masa-Yards, it also announced a financial innovation: It linked the final contract to the dollar's exchange rate. Some analysts calculate that the dollar would have to strengthen to $1.08 to the euro, from $1.15 now, for the final contracts to be signed.
The end of the Iraq war, Alstom Marine's chief executive, Patrick Bossier, said in an interview in the yard newsletter, should spur a renewed flow of orders, though not immediately. "The cruise lines can wait, for if there are fewer vessels in service, then cruises can be sold more dearly," he said. "Yet one can nevertheless imagine that the first order coming from a major line will likely send a signal to the market and motivate others who will not want to risk losing market share."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Construction of the Queen Mary 2 in Saint-Nazaire, France. (Xavier Lambours/Metis)(pg. W1); The Queen Mary 2 is to take its first test voyages off the coast of Scotland sometime in September. (Xavier Lambours/Metis)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (92%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); CRUISES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (75%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); IRAQ WAR (65%); CONTRACT AWARDS (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (54%); TERRORISM (51%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) SHIPBUILDING, CONVERSION AND REPAIR; QUEEN MARY 2 (SHIP); CRUISES 

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (85%); A MANZONI & C SPA (71%); VEUVE CLICQUOT PONSARDIN SA (57%); ALSTOM SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ALSTOM SA; CUNARD LINE; CARNIVAL CORP 

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (85%); ALO (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (85%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (71%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (57%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (57%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BRETAGNE, FRANCE (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ENGLAND (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (75%); SCOTLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



674 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: How the West Is Taxed 

BYLINE:  By Mark Baldassare; Mark Baldassare, author of "A California State of Mind: The Conflicted Voter in a Changing World," is research director at the Public Policy Institute of California.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
California is facing the worst budget crisis in history: no state has ever faced a deficit, $38 billion over two years, as large. As Gov. Gray Davis and the legislature spar over spending cuts, tax increases and borrowing to balance the budget, they are working against a deadline. If no agreement is reached before Tuesday, the start of the new fiscal year, the state will literally run out of money.
 Preoccupied with this looming disaster and lingering economic uncertainty, Californians are in no mood to celebrate the 25th anniversary of Proposition 13, the citizens' initiative limiting property-tax increases that was approved in June 1978. Instead, there have been sobering reflections about the mixed legacy of Proposition 13 -- and calls to reform it. 
 California's reassessment should serve as a warning to the many states that followed California down the path of tax reform -- 18 states placed limits on taxes and spending in the wake of Proposition 13 -- as well as those who have pointed to California's "tax revolt" as a model for the national level. For all its value to the people (and politicians) of California, Proposition 13 has been anything but a simple fix.
Proposition 13 has been highly popular with the state's residents ever since it passed -- 60 percent still support it today -- because it has provided Californians with tax predictability during two decades of rising real-estate values. No one dares question its core: the property tax can be no more than 1 percent of the actual sales price of real estate, and increases are limited to 2 percent per year. The unintended consequences of Proposition 13, however, can be debated.
Although the initiative was heralded as tax relief for homeowners, for example, its major beneficiaries were the corporations whose land and buildings avoid property tax reassessments at market value. Revamping the property tax system to protect homeowners while allowing increasing rates for commercial property is supported by a majority of Californians, according to a survey conducted this month by the Public Policy Institute of California. But such a change would require voter approval.
Some are also taking aim at Proposition 13's supermajority requirement. The initiative's authors wanted to rein in local governments, which, prohibited from making large increases in the property tax, might be tempted to pass other tax measures. So the law requires that two-thirds of the voters approve any special local taxes, which are those used to pay for specific services like schools or parks.
In the past 25 years, local officials have indeed found it difficult to gain enough support to raise such taxes. Earlier this month, for instance, voters in many school districts around the state approved an increase in local taxes to cover the expected shortfall in state financing -- but not by the necessary two-thirds majority. Some are now proposing to change the ratio necessary for approval from two-thirds to 55 percent for all special local taxes. Nearly half of the state's residents agree.
Meanwhile, Proposition 13 has shifted the balance of power between the state and local governments. While the law requires that local governments collect property taxes, it puts the state legislature in charge of distributing the money. As a result, local schools are vulnerable to statewide economic downturns. This trend has taken its toll over 25 years: Since the 1990's, California has ranked in the bottom half nationally for educational spending on a per-student basis.
It's not just schools that have been hurt by the state's boom-or-bust budgeting. City governments, seeking alternative revenue sources after losing control of property taxes, increasingly encourage the building of shopping malls and auto dealerships in order to generate more local sales tax revenue. The result? Not enough room for new housing, which is seen as less attractive because property tax money goes to the state. According to the state department of housing and community development, California needs 220,000 new units of housing every year to meet demand, yet since 1990 it has averaged 100,000.
Through the current budget crisis and beyond, it is important to remember that it was the voters who changed the tax system 25 years ago, and that most of these fiscal reforms require the voters' approval. Moreover, with the combination of a relatively inexperienced state legislature (because of term limits) and a governor preoccupied with the threat of voter recall, there is policy paralysis in state government. So it is voters, once again, who control state fiscal matters.
California's problems are not the nation's, of course, nor are California's solutions. But as the largest state, the economic and political effects of its actions will reverberate. As America is to the world -- the exceptional nation that nonetheless sets an example -- so California is to America. California's response to its present crisis may well set the stage for a new era of reform among the states.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Adam McCauley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); HOME PRICES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); REFERENDUMS (75%); TAX REFORM (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (60%) REFERENDUMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: BALDASSARE, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



675 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: $1 Billion Offered to Settle Suit on I.P.O.'s 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
Some 300 companies that sold new shares to the public during the late 1990's agreed yesterday to pay $1 billion to settle an investor lawsuit contending that the stock offerings' prices were artificially inflated.
 But under the terms of the deal, which has not been approved by all the parties, the companies -- mostly technology concerns -- will pay nothing if the investors also win a settlement of at least $1 billion from the brokerage firms that underwrote the stock offerings and are also being sued. 
 Lawyers for investors have contended that the firms sold shares to favored clients who agreed to purchase additional shares in the open market, driving up the price. The issuing companies, they argue, participated and benefited from the arrangement. 
The settlement of the class-action suit provides a guarantee that investors who bought initial public offerings from 1998 through 2000 will receive at least $1 billion, before legal fees. The companies that issued the shares, meanwhile, are betting that the investors' lawyers will prevail against the 55 brokerage firms, including Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse First Boston and many smaller firms. If the lawyers were to win more than $5 billion from the Wall Street firms, the companies in the settlement would recover legal fees and other expenses incurred in the litigation.
Any payment to investors will be delayed, potentially for years, until the securities lawsuits against the brokerage firms are resolved. "The case proceeds very actively against the underwriter defendants," said Melvyn I. Weiss, a partner at Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach and the chairman of the plaintiffs' executive committee in the securities litigation, at a news conference yesterday in Midtown Manhattan. 
Which investors may share in the settlement will not be known until the class has been certified by Judge Shira A. Scheindlin of United States District Court, who is presiding over the shareholder suit in Manhattan, lawyers said. Given the settlement's many parties, approval of the deal could take six months. The settlement is separate from the $1.4 billion deal reached in April by the New York attorney general's office and 10 large Wall Street firms relating to biased stock research.
In their complaints against the companies and the brokerage firms, the shareholders contend that the firms sold shares in hot new companies to favored clients in exchange for fees or for agreements to purchase additional shares of the companies in subsequent public trading. "That caused, we allege, artificial inflation of the market price," Mr. Weiss said. 
Most of the 309 companies involved in the proposed settlement are technology concerns whose shares were in demand among investors during the bull market. They include Ask Jeeves Inc., Global Crossing, Aether Systems, Clarent, Copper Mountain Networks and VA Linux, now VA Software. If the companies wind up paying the $1 billion, the money will come from their insurers. 
Wall Street firms raised buckets of money for fledgling companies during the late 1990's. In 1999, for example, more than $75 billion was raised in initial stock offerings, about the amount that was raised in new stock issues during all of the 1980's. 
During that boom, many individual investors were frustrated when they could not obtain new shares at their offering prices and instead had to buy them in the open market, after they had risen significantly. In 1999, for example, the average first-day leap of a new stock was 60 percent, up from the 10-percent moves that were typical from 1986 to 1994, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. First-day gains on all initial offerings exceeded $29 billion in 1999, more than the gross domestic product of Bolivia.
A lawyer representing about 40 of the companies in the settlement said that his clients were looking forward to getting the deal approved. "If the settlement is finally approved, many issuers will be pleased to have this behind them and be able to concentrate on their businesses," said Jack Auspitz, a lawyer at Morrison & Foerster in New York. "This is probably the most complex securities litigation that has ever been brought. There are over 1,000 defendants, either individuals or corporations, and there were over 300 class actions." Mediation has been going on for more than a year in the case. 
The agreement could create an incentive for the companies that settled to help the plaintiffs' lawyers in their continuing lawsuit against the Wall Street firms. The companies have agreed to provide documents and other support to the shareholders' lawyers, Mr. Weiss said. Under the agreement, the settling companies will also assign their potential claims against the underwriters to the investors, he added. Some of the companies are defunct.
But a lawyer involved in the case cautioned against concluding that the issuers would be eager to help the investors' lawyers make their case against the brokerage firms. 
It is unclear how much of the $1 billion would be paid to the lawyers bringing the case, Mr. Weiss said. Any fee would have to be approved by the court. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); STOCK OFFERINGS (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (89%); BONDS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); INSURANCE (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); EQUITY RESEARCH (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ETHICS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ETHICS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS 

COMPANY: MILBERG LLP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); ASK JEEVES INC (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); COPPER MOUNTAIN NETWORKS INC (50%); GEEKNET INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); GKNT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



676 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Modest Gains as Investors Reassess the Fed's Rate Cut

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
A report suggesting that layoffs might be stabilizing helped reassure Wall Street yesterday and sent stocks moderately higher, although the gains were limited by news of a sluggish gross domestic product. 
 Analysts said much of the advance was also a bounce back from Wednesday's sharp decline after the Federal Reserve voted to cut interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point. 
 "It's a directionless day in the aftermath of the Fed cut," said Michael Palazzi, managing director of equity trading at SG Cowen Securities. "Investors are looking forward to the end of the quarter and dreading the preannouncement season," when companies issue warnings about earnings, he said. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 67.51 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 9,079.04, after falling 98 points Wednesday. 
The broader market also finished higher. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 31.35 points, or 2 percent, to 1,634.01. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 10.50 points, or 1.1 percent, to 985.82. 
The Commerce Department reported that the gross domestic product rose at an annual rate of 1.4 percent during the first quarter. That was lower than the 1.9 percent reading estimated a month ago. 
But the Labor Department said new claims for unemployment benefits fell last week by a seasonally adjusted 22,000, to a three-month low of 404,000, suggesting that layoffs may be stabilizing. 
"They were sort of in line as expected," Mr. Palazzi said. "The market is gingerly moving along with healthy skepticism. We've had such great gains, there's more than a bit of caution." 
Stephen J. Massocca, the president of Pacific Growth Equities, agreed. 
"Had those reports delineated a clear direction for the economy it would have been meaningful" for the markets, he said. "But itdidn't really. The big new items the market is waiting to hear about are how poorly or good companies did in the second quarter. That will begin in earnest after the July 4th holiday."
Gainers included Intel, which rose 59 cents, to $20.63, and I.B.M., which advanced $1.86, to $84.35. 
The American International Group rose 55 cents, to $56.20, after the company said it would buy General Electric's Japanese insurance operations as well as its United States auto and home insurance business for about $2.15 billion. G.E. gained 8 cents, to $29.15. 
Decliners included GlaxoSmithKline, which fell 4 cents, to $41.35, although the company, based in Britain, said it got approval from the Food and Drug Administration for its antidepressant Wellbutrin.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Decline
By Reuters
Treasury prices fell yesterday as the market adjusted to the Federal Reserve's latest rate cut, which was smaller than some had anticipated. Many had expected a reduction of half a percentage point.
John Canavan, an analyst at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, said that over the longer term, the Fed's commitment to keep interest rates low to address its main concern of falling inflation would support bond prices. In the short term, though, the market might experience more bond sales, he said.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 1 4/32, to a price of 100 22/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.54 percent from 3.41 percent on Wednesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 1 25/32, to 112 20/32. The bond's yield rose to 4.57 percent from 4.46 percent on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); INSURANCE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (65%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (65%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (64%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (62%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); INTEL CORP (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); GSK (NYSE) (51%); GSK (LSE) (51%); BIOC (EGX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



677 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Growth in the First Quarter Revised Down to a 1.4% Pace 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26 

 BODY:
The United States economy grew more slowly than previously thought in the first quarter, the Commerce Department said today. There were signs, though, of potential improvement in the job market. 
 The gross domestic product increased at a 1.4 percent annual rate in the quarter. That was less than the 1.9 percent pace estimated a month ago and matched the lethargic pace in the final quarter of 2002. 
 Another report, from the Labor Department, said that new applications for jobless benefits fell last week to the lowest level since late March. A total of 404,000 workers filed for unemployment payments at state offices in the week ended June 21, down 22,000 from a revised 426,000 a week earlier. "We've seen claims come down four out of the last five weeks, which is encouraging," said Gary Thayer, chief economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons.
But growth is too weak to generate many jobs yet, and the Conference Board said today that its index of help-wanted advertising remained at the same level in May as in April. 
No estimate for this quarter's gross domestic product -- the broadest measure of goods and services within the nation's borders -- is expected for a month, though that, too, is expected to be soft. Economists hope for a pickup in the second half. 
Worried about the lumbering pace of growth, the Federal Reserve on Wednesday lowered the benchmark short-term interest rate by one-quarter of a percentage point. 
Economists said the first-quarter output data reflected a loss of momentum that has not yet been regained. "The first-quarter slowing of real G.D.P. is very much in keeping with the rationale behind the latest rate cut," said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service. "The deceleration of G.D.P. reminds us of the difficult environment faced by corporations as they attempt to regain financial health." 
The report on first-quarter growth also said that inventories rose at a $4.8 billion annual pace in the period, just over a third of the $13.2 billion pace estimated a month earlier, and a sign, some said, of corporate reluctance to stockpile goods in the face of impending war with Iraq. 
Business investment was weak. Nonresidential spending, which includes investment in buildings and computers, fell at a 4.4 percent pace in the first quarter after rising 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002. Equipment and software spending dropped for the first time in a year, declining at a 4.8 percent pace in contrast to a 6.2 percent gain the previous quarter.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Real Economic Growth"Graph tracks the annual rate of the change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for the seasons and inflation, since 1998. 1st Qtr. FinalTo: +1.4%From: +1.9 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); INTEREST RATES (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



678 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Putting Sticker Prices on Corporate Bonds 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
FOR companies that need cash, it is the best of times -- so long as they are willing to promise to pay it back. Corporate bonds are popular with investors, and thanks to a weak economy and a friendly Federal Reserve, interest rates are very low.
 General Motors yesterday issued the largest set of bonds ever by an American company -- $17.5 billion -- paying lower rates and raising more money than planned. Most of the money will end up in G.M.'s sadly underfunded pension plans. Page C5. 
 The attraction of bonds for corporate issuers now is twofold: First, rates are low. Second, investors are eager. Convertibles, which combine aspects of both stocks and bonds, are also selling well. The $4 billion convertible bond included in the G.M. package assures that this will be the biggest quarter ever for convertibles. 
But it is a different story on the stock side of the business. Equity issues -- including initial public offerings and secondary offerings by companies -- have raised less than $26 billion this year, the slowest pace since 1991. That may reflect a lack of supply, as companies hope they can charge higher prices later. But a lot of it is a lack of demand. Many investors, it would appear, noticed after the bubble burst that stocks have no guarantee of repayment.
As retail investors have turned to bonds, however, they have noticed that the bond market is nothing like the stock market when it comes to price transparency. You want to buy General Motors stock? Any broker can tell you the current quote, and yesterday afternoon the bid and asked prices were just 1 cent apart.
But the bond market is a dealer market, one in which just finding out where a bond is trading can be difficult. Yesterday, reports Tom Burnett, the research director for Wall Street Access, a brokerage firm, one dealer was offering a G.M. bond maturing in 2028 at 86.75 cents per dollar of face value, while another was asking 90 cents. The range can be much greater for junk bonds. A Charter Communications issue this week was offered by one dealer at 52.75 cents, and by another at 69.5 cents.
For a small institution, even finding all the prices available can be a great strain. For an individual, there is a fair chance that the price he or she receives will be far worse than the best available.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has tried to help. A few years ago, it forced the industry to adopt a system that reports sales prices -- but not quotes -- on many bonds within 75 minutes of the trade being made. But those reports are not easy for many investors to find, and lots of bonds are exempted. Why the exemptions? The brokerage industry says that letting investors see what the broker paid for a bond would make it too hard for the dealer to make a profit. Opaque markets always benefit insiders, and it is no coincidence that bond trading is one of the few remaining dependable sources of profits for Wall Street. 
The New York Stock Exchange was once a major force in the corporate bond business, but in recent years it has faded in importance. While some new bonds are listed on the Big Board, most are not. John M. Devine, chief financial officer of G.M., seemed surprised when I asked him whether it was listing the new bonds on the exchange. The convertible issue will be listed, but the others will not. That is a pity for individual investors. The exchange has the only widely available system that offers quotes on bonds.
The Big Board is pushing the S.E.C. for the right to trade all registered corporate bonds, and Catherine R. Kinney, the exchange's co-chief operating officer, said yesterday she hoped the agency would approve that this year.
Such a plan could cut into the profits of bond dealers. But individual investors deserve better bond market information.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks stock offerings (I.P.O.'s and Secondary offerings), first six months each year since 1990. (Source: Thomson Financial) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CORPORATE BONDS 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



679 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: In Natural Gas's Future, Experts See More High Prices and Growing Imports 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26 

 BODY:
Continued high prices for natural gas will drive some industries offshore and increase gas imports by tanker, according to participants at a meeting the Energy Department convened here today to confront gas shortages.
 Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said prices were so high that some companies using natural gas in manufacturing would find it more profitable to shut down and then sell their gas reserves. He and others predicted higher costs for summer electricity and winter heating. 
 The country is "running out of gas and balancing the demand by destroying jobs," said William S. Stavropoulos, chairman and chief executive of Dow Chemical, which burns natural gas for heat and uses it as an ingredient in chemical products. 
On the other hand, John F. Nunley III, director of the energy office of the State of Wyoming,an oil and gas producer, said it was hard to say now what the supply and demand picture would be next winter. "We must keep in mind that things may work out just fine without action by government," said Mr. Nunley, who is chairman of the National Association of State Energy Officials.
Experts trace the current high prices and low inventories to a small dip in production and increased demand over an unusually cold winter.
Higher gas prices are lifting electricity prices and thus revenue for companies that make electricity from coal or nuclear power. They are also stimulating interest in imports. 
Patrick Henry Wood III, chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, said that the nation's import capacity is about three billion cubic feet a day, but that companies had filed for permits to increase that to nine billion cubic feet a day by 2007. Fifteen projects under study around the country could increase import capacity to more than 13 billion cubic feet a day by 2009, he said.
"The United States is on its way to becoming part of a global gas market," said Daniel Yergin, an energy expert and adviser to the energy secretary. He painted a picture for natural gas in this decade much like that of oil in the 1970's, when prices rose and stimulated drilling, but domestic supplies were still inadequate and imports had to make up the difference. 
Natural gas imports could make up 5 percent of American energy demand by 2020, up from well under 1 percent now, Mr. Yergin said, and would come from a broader range of countries than those that supply oil.
Also, he noted, there is no export cartel for natural gas, as there is for oil.
The technology used to turn natural gas into a liquid has improved, and experts say that the price per million British thermal units needed to justify new investment is in the range of $3 to $4.50. Lately the price has hovered around $6, although few expect it to stay that high.
A million B.T.U.'s is the energy equivalent of about 7.2 gallons of diesel fuel. The most modern gas-fired electric plants can make about 140 kilowatt-hours from that amount of gas, which is enough electricity to power a single-family house for three or four days, depending on the climate.
But older plants can produce only about half as much electricity from that amount of gas. If power companies expect high prices to become permanent, they are likely to modernize such plants, which would stretch gas supplies, experts say.
Several participants in the meeting said prices were likely to stay high by historical standards, because the current price squeeze was different from the last crisis. That was in the mid-1970's, when price controls discouraged exploration. When they were lifted, new drilling swelled inventories.
This time, high prices have spurred drilling: there are 915 drilling rigs at work, up about 50 percent over last year. But increases in supplies, when they come, are expected to be modest, because the gas fields on shore in the lower 48 states, in Canada and in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico, are past their prime, experts say.
Some experts said domestic production could be pushed up sharply if the industry were allowed into the eastern Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic and Pacific coasts -- where drilling has been barred by successive Republican and Democratic administrations -- and on public lands.
Some power producers have raised the idea that because natural gas prices are high, the federal government should temporarily relax air pollution rules, allowing more coal and oil to be burned. Coal is burned in specialized plants but some turbines designed for natural gas can burn oil as well.
But E. Linn Draper Jr., chairman and chief executive of American Electric Power, the nation's biggest coal customer, said today that that idea was "premature." 
Robert Card, an under secretary of energy, said in an interview that his department would not propose measures that would make air pollution worse, but might endorse them if states raised the issue, as California did during its electricity crisis.
Daniel A. Lashof of the Natural Resources Defense Council told the group that the country should ride out this boom part of the boom-and-bust gas business. "High gas prices inflict harm on people and our economy, but so does pollution," he said. 
Outside the meeting, at the Mayflower Hotel, about two dozen protesters from the U.S. Public Interest Research Group carried signs with slogans like "Windmills, not oil wells."
The Energy Department announced today that last week, for the fourth consecutive week, the amount of gas put into storage for winter set a record. The total, though, is still about 19 percent below the five-year average for this time of year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (91%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CHEMICALS (77%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (76%); CARTELS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%) GAS (FUEL); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SHORTAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; HEATING 

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (54%) ENERGY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (57%); DOW (NYSE) (57%); DOW (LSE) (57%); 4850 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEC); WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



680 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
MGM Moves Up in Bidding For Some Vivendi Assets
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, once a dark horse bidder for the entertainment assets of Vivendi Universal, is emerging as a serious contender, executives involved in the auction said.
 The MGM offer values Vivendi's nonmusic entertainment assets at $11 billion, which is where industry analysts had expected the bidding to begin. Page C2. 

A Larger Asbestos Trust Proposed
Senators agreed to increase to as much as $153 billion a proposed trust fund that would end all asbestos lawsuits and instead pay asbestos victims from a set schedule. C5.

A Split Ruling for Microsoft Case
A federal appeals court swept aside a lower court injunction that ordered Microsoft to distribute the Java software of Sun Microsystems. The appeals court, however, upheld a second preliminary injunction by the lower court that told Microsoft to stop distributing its version of Java technology because it probably violated Sun's copyright on the software. C3.

Nike Appeal Dismissed by Court
The Supreme Court dismissed Nike's appeal of a California Supreme Court decision requiring the company to stand trial on a citizen's complaint of consumer fraud and unfair trade practices for statements that it has made in defense of its overseas labor policies. A16.

Medicare Expansion Bill Progresses
The Senate approved a compromise that cleared the way for passage of the biggest expansion of Medicare since its creation, and the House began voting on a similar bill. A24.

Panel Works to Make Vehicles Safer
The Senate Commerce Committee passed measures that would pressure automakers to improve the safety of their vehicles, including making sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks less prone to rolling over and less dangerous to other vehicles in collisions. C5.

Standard Sought for Recycled Parts
Dell and Hewlett-Packard handle recycling of the waste from computer products differently, according to a report by environmentalists working to set standards for recycling electronic and computer technology parts. C3.

Higher Natural Gas Prices Expected
Spencer Abraham, the secretary of energy, said that natural gas prices are so high that some manufacturers might find it more profitable to shut down and sell their reserves of natural gas. He and others at a meeting convened by the Energy Department predicted higher prices for summer electricity and winter heating. C2.

Beacon Hill Service Indicted
A Midtown Manhattan concern, Beacon Hill Service, was indicted on charges of illegally transmitting at least $3 billion from shell companies, private investors and foreign exchange houses to offshore accounts. B1.

Boeing and Airbus Seek Plane Order
Sales executives from Airbus and Boeing are trying to win an order for 100 planes from AirTran Airways that could be valued at several billion dollars. C10.

Fiat to Cut Jobs and Close Plants
Fiat announced a four-year plan to make its car business profitable that includes 12,300 layoffs, four new cars and a 1.84-billion-euro capital increase. World Business, Section W.

Growth in the U.S. Revised Lower
The economy grew more slowly than previously thought in the first quarter, the Commerce Department said. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,079.04 up 67.51Nasdaq composite -- 1,634.01 up 31.3510-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.54% up 0.13The euro -- $1.1429 down 0.0130The dollar -- 119.36 yen up 1.51 Graph "TODAY" shows percentage change in personal income from Nov. 2002-April 2003.May figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3% Graph tracks the share price of Microsoft since last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPEALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); ASBESTOS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); INJUNCTIONS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); AIRLINES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (88%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (87%); MOTOR VEHICLES (86%); COMPANY PROFITS (85%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (85%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); AUCTIONS (78%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (78%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (74%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (74%); INDICTMENTS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); ELECTRONICS RECYCLING (68%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (66%); PICKUP TRUCKS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (63%); LAYOFFS (58%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (94%); VIVENDI (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); NIKE INC (56%); AIRBUS SAS (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (51%); BOEING CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (94%); VIV (BIT) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); NKE (NYSE) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); LUV (NYSE) (51%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (56%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (56%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (56%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



681 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Fed Minutes From Meeting in May Show Optimism 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at their May 6 meeting because they expected that the end of major fighting in Iraq would lift the gloom overhanging businesses and accelerate the economic expansion, according to the meeting minutes released yesterday. 
 That did not happen, and the central bank on Wednesday cut the overnight bank lending rate, to 1 percent from 1.25 percent. 
 A summary of the May 6 meeting of the Fed's rate-setting Open Market Committee shows that policy makers found reasons to be positive in their outlook on the economy, while also showing concern about receding inflation caused by excess capacity. 
"Members acknowledged that a case could be made for easing policy immediately in light of the generally disappointing reports on the recent performance of the economy, the ongoing disinflation trend in a period of already low inflation, and forecasts of persisting excess capacity," the minutes said. 
"Nonetheless, they concluded that, on balance, an easing action was not desirable at this time. They noted that not enough time had elapsed since the end of the Iraqi war to sort out the underlying forces at work in the economy." 
The members agreed "that there was only a remote possibility" that disinflation, in which prices increase slowly, would lead to deflation, in which prices actually decline. 
Central bankers voted unanimously at the May meeting to leave the benchmark overnight bank lending rate at the lowest level in 41 years. For the first time, they also signaled that further "unwelcome" declines in inflation were a greater immediate concern than the medium-term risk of faster growth leading to accelerating inflation. 
Still, "there was some concern that including such a summary sentence in the press release might be mistakenly interpreted" as a concern about growth rather than an outlook on inflation, the minutes showed. 
On Wednesday, after a two-day meeting, the Fed cut the benchmark rate by a quarter of a percentage point, citing a sluggish expansion that "has yet to exhibit sustainable growth," according to a statement announcing the decision. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFLATION (79%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



682 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: Taking Sides in the Hudson Valley; 
Plant Raises Issues of Pollution and Economic Change

BYLINE:  By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: HUDSON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
A colorful chalkboard greets diners the instant they enter the Red Dot, a hip restaurant in this antiques magnet of a river city. The board does not feature daily specials but rather a cryptic exhortation: Stop S.L.C.
 After only a few hours in Columbia County, a visitor becomes fully aware of what S.L.C. stands for. St. Lawrence Cement wants to build one of the largest coal-burning cement plants in the United States a few minutes away from here. 
 Sitting on an 1,800-acre tract that runs down to the Hudson River, the plant would announce itself with a 40-story smokestack visible for miles. Opponents say the billowing plume would release millions of pounds a year of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, two compounds linked to acid rain and smog. The company concedes that the plume could, under certain weather conditions, be six miles long. 
Perhaps no other proposed project for the Hudson Valley has so unnerved and galvanized as many people in recent years as this plant. After a quarter century of change, antiques, art galleries and artisanal food production have overtaken heavy industry as the most visible economic activity along the river.
Those drawn to the valley by that transformation, especially the many second-home owners who have arrived in recent years, have led the charge against the plant. Unlike most not-in-my-backyard crusades, this one is rippling far beyond the Hudson's backyard. Because the emissions would drift north and east, opposition has spread to nearby states. Officials in Connecticut and Maine have spoken out against the proposal. 
New York State, which will have final approval over the project, must wrestle with a tough decision: whether to approve the plant, and its attendant economic benefits, over the objections of Northeastern states it has joined in the battle against emissions from coal-fired plants in the South and Midwest.
"It's kind of hypocritical to be complaining about the states upwind of New York while adding to the pollutant loads on states downwind of New York," said Karl S. Coplan, co-director of the Pace Environmental Litigation Clinic, a program of Pace Law School, which is representing one of the opposition groups.
To be sure, the plant has its supporters, from union members who want the promised jobs to local officials eager for new tax revenue. In this city, which still has nooks of poverty, there are almost as many signs for the plant as against. The company's sign plays on the words "plant" and "planet," urging support for both. 
St. Lawrence disputes claims that the plant will increase pollution. Because of improvements in technology, it says, the new plant will have sharply lower harmful emission than the plant it will replace across the river in Catskill. 
Opponents of the new plant say it will create a sprawling new industrial city, with noisy trucks on local roads and gargantuan barges on the river, dominating the life of Hudson and altering vistas in the valley for decades. They contend that overall emissions will actually rise.
St. Lawrence bought the land, which includes a 1,200-acre limestone quarry, in the early 1970's. Limestone is the key component in making cement, which is sold by the barge, truck or bag.
As a visitor leaves town and drives along country roads, there is the unmistakable feeling that Columbia County is in the sway of cement-plant fever. Everywhere are signs protesting the plant. Some 35 organizations have joined the fray, with teams of lawyers and air-quality experts going head to head with the company's own well-staffed defense. 
"I don't want to breathe it, and I don't want to see it," said Honey Wilde, who relocated from New Jersey to a house on 10 acres in the town of Ghent nine years ago. "I have a direct view of the Catskill Mountains across the river, and on a clear day I can see the trees growing on the mountains. That plume is going to prevent me from seeing that."
For St. Lawrence Cement, a Canadian company, the opposition has been an enigma, said Daniel Odescalchi, the company's spokesman.
The new plant would triple the cement output of the Catskill plant, while its smokestack would be four times the height of the old stack, he said. New technology will slash emissions like sulfur dioxide by 85 percent and lead and mercury by 95 percent, according to Mr. Odescalchi. There will, however, be an increase in carbon monoxide, he said.
"I thought the environmentalists would really embrace this," Mr. Odescalchi said. "This is a textbook example of the Clean Air Act. If you replace an existing facility, you lose the grandfathering of plant operations, and you have to abide by all the newest and more stringent regulations."
Perhaps more significant, Mr. Odescalchi said, is the fact that the state emissions permit for the new plant would cut by a third what is now permitted at the Catskill plant. "That's huge," he said.
Environmentalists expect emissions to increase, arguing that the important comparison is what is now coming out of the aging Catskill plant (14 million pounds per year) and the potential at the new plant (19.6 million pounds). It is irrelevant that the permit for the existing plant would allow 29 million pounds of pollutants, insists Ned Sullivan, president of Scenic Hudson, an environmental group based in Poughkeepsie. 
"They obviously want to be able to use the full capacity or they wouldn't be seeking these high permit levels," said Mr. Sullivan, who was formerly the commissioner of Maine's Department of Environmental Protection."
The company says the new plant is most likely to maintain the level currently seen at the Catskill plant. 
Mr. Sullivan and other environmental advocates criticize the track record of St. Lawrence's majority shareholder, Holcim (pronounced wholesome). In August, Texas fined a Holcim affiliate $223,000 for violations at its cement plant in Midlothian, including multiple releases of pollutants beyond allowable levels. Mr. Odescalchi said the permits St. Lawrence is seeking from New York contain "more realistic" emissionsprojections.
St. Lawrence has already drawn up a "host community agreement" with the town of Greenport, just south of Hudson, where the bulk of the site is located. The agreement includes a payment of $200,000 a year, on top of the $800,000 the plant is expected to pay in property taxes. The company is now negotiating an agreement with the city of Hudson. A small part of its land crosses into Hudson, giving St. Lawrence its crucial river access.
Another flashpoint is the plant's aesthetic effect, particularly the 406-foot smokestack. Both sides have created visual simulations, but the results are light years apart: the stack and plume in the company's photographic simulations register as blips on the horizon, while they look monstrous in the opposition's illustrations. St. Lawrence says the plume will be visible mostly in the winter months, and its meteorological studies indicate that it will reach six miles for perhaps a couple of hours a year.
The issue of job creation is another hot button. Because cement production has become so efficient, the new plant will need only 15 more workers than the existing one. Workers in Catskill will be given first chance on positions at the new plant.
But Mr. Odescalchi points to the 1,600 construction jobs that he said would be created, as well as an estimated 170 jobs that would be supported through the plant's purchase of printing supplies, lumber and tires.
Art Stoerzinger, a Greenport resident whose company provides janitorial services to local companies, heads a group that supports the plant, the Hudson Valley Environmental Economic Coalition. With the help of union locals, the group has collected tens of thousands of signatures throughout the valley, he said. "You can't build a $320 million plant without having a huge economic impact on the area," he said. "Many of the opponents are here for quiet enjoyment of their weekend home, and they don't want the county to change at all. But there are those of us here who have to make a living."
The fate of the project is in the hands of the New York Department of Environmental Conservation. In a letter opposing the plant in the fall, the former governor of Maine, Angus S. King Jr., reminded Gov. George E. Pataki that the two states have worked "collaboratively for years" on the "transport of ozone and other pollutants across state boundaries." The attorney general of Connecticut, Richard Blumenthal, has also invoked the partnership with New York in the legal battle against out-of-state plants.
In the coming months, perhaps even years, administrative law judges at the state agency will make recommendations on several issues to the commissioner and final arbiter, Erin M. Crotty. Those issues range from noise levels to the effect of emissions on Olana, the nearby historic site that was home to the painter Frederic E. Church.
Planned hearings might help clarify a debate that has so far unfolded as a confusing clash. "I don't think either side has given all the facts, and I'm against it," Ms. Wilde said. "You have to weed out what you believe to be the truth. It's going to be a long fight."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Signs all over Columbia County, N.Y., state preferences on a proposal to build a new cement plant. An opposition sign, top, was posted on Warren Street, and a company sign, above, plays on the similarity of "plant" and "planet." (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Honey Wilde, a plant opponent, moved to the area for the views. Art Stoerzinger and his group have collected thousands of signatures in support. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. B10) Map of New York State highlighting Hudson. (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (89%); APPROVALS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ACID RAIN (78%); POWER PLANTS (76%); CEMENT MFG (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SMOG (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); NITROGEN OXIDES (69%); TOXIC TORTS (66%); LITIGATION (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HOLCIM (CANADA) INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327310 CEMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS212312 CRUSHED & BROKEN LIMESTONE MINING & QUARRYING (57%); SIC3273 READY-MIXED CONCRETE (57%); SIC3241 CEMENT, HYDRAULIC (57%); SIC1422 CRUSHED & BROKEN LIMESTONE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



683 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Planned Auto Safety Rules Focus on Rollovers and S.U.V.'s 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 26 

 BODY:
The Senate Commerce Committee approved a long list of new regulatory requirements today that would pressure automakers to improve safety on several fronts, including making sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks less prone to rolling over and less dangerous to other vehicles in collisions.
 The measures, included in a budget authorization for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, are part of a broader highway financing bill. 
 The safety regulations, which would be phased in from 2004 to 2008, are still a long way from reality. They have not gone before the full Senate, and the Bush administration has not signed off on them. Further, the House of Representatives could counter with a different plan. 
The Senate Commerce Committee's chairman, John McCain, Republican of Arizona, has been outspoken on both fuel economy and auto safety. Earlier this year, he held a hearing on safety issues involving sport utilities.
The new requirements, if they ultimately take effect, would touch on several areas that have been vigorously debated by the auto industry and public safety groups.
The safety agency would be required to develop a standard for rollover prevention. Currently, vehicles receive star ratings to reflect rollover risk but do not have to meet a minimum performance standard. (The rating system itself is also in the process of being reworked.)
The agency is also directed to include improved seat belt technology and to require side air bags to combat rollovers, a particularly deadly type of accident that claims more than 10,000 lives annually.
New roof-strength standards would be required to reflect more accurately what happens in rollovers. Current roof standards have been criticized because they are based on the application of pressure to only one side of a vehicle. Consumer groups contend that much of the damage in rollovers occurs after the initial contact of the roof with the ground -- when the vehicle continues to roll -- because the windows break and the forces putting pressure on the roof change directions.
The new requirements would also extend safety regulations to large sport utilities, like Hummers, and to pickup trucks; such vehicles fall outside many of the current standards. And they would encompass 15-passenger vans, which would have to be put through the same crash tests and rollover rules that would apply to cars, pickups, minivans and sport utilities.
Vans are of particular interest to Senator Olympia J. Snowe, the Maine Republican who is a member of the Commerce Committee. Last year, 14 migrant workers were killed in northern Maine in a van that rolled off a bridge.
"Steps must be taken now to prevent deadly accidents like the one in Allagash Wilderness Waterway, which was the worst motor vehicle accident in Maine's history," Senator Snowe said in a statement. "These tests will hopefully lead to the design changes and technological developments necessary to help reduce the risk of these deadly accidents."
This week, the safety agency laid out new tire performance standards that would bring requirements for tires on sport utilities and pickups in line with the rules for passenger car tires. The Senate Commerce Committee proposal would direct the agency to add rules that would require that tires be better able to withstand damage when hit by objects in the road and to work to encourage drivers to replace tires that are too old.
The committee also asked the traffic safety agency to come up with rules that would force automakers to produce sport utilities and pickups with features like lower bumpers that would match up better with passenger cars. Automakers are already working with one another on such issues.
"This bill sets a new agenda for auto safety for the next six years that addresses the key types of crashes in which the public is being killed and injured, and it sets hard deadlines for getting the job done," said Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, a consumer group.
Eron Shosteck, a spokesman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the industry's top lobbying group, said he was concerned by the number of requirements laid out in the bill. 
"We want to make sure the safety engineers have time to do things right and there are a lot of things in that bill," he said, adding, "We want to make sure the technology is ready and viable and effective." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (89%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); MINIVANS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%); WILDERNESS (50%) AUTOMOBILES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; ROOFS; TIRES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (84%) NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%) ;HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



684 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: With Deadline Near, States Are in Budget Discord 

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 26 

 BODY:
With 46 states facing the end of their fiscal years on Monday, 9, an unusually high number, remain locked in disputes over their budgets. This worsening fiscal crisis comesafter a spring in which states have made record tax increases and spending cuts, and nearly wiped out their rainy day reserves, a nationwide survey released today reports. 
 The new data, compiled by the National Governors Association and the National Association of State Budget Officers, describe a fiscal bad dream descending into nightmare this spring as a languishing economy met upward spiraling health-care costs. 
 Thirty-seven states chopped a total of $14.5 billion off the current year's budgets, most cutting services across the board and nearly half laying off workers, the survey says, while governors in 29 states proposed a total of $17.5 billion in new taxes and fees for next year, the most since 1979. Overall state spending is expected to decline next year by 0.1 percent -- the first such drop since 1983 -- after just a 0.3 percent rise this year. The average annual increase since 1979 is 6.2 percent. 
"Unfortunately, the news is pretty bad, and I think it's going to get a little worse," said Ray Scheppach, executive director of the governors' group, who last year described the states' budget outlook as the bleakest since World War II and today extended that to the War of 1812. "It's clearly the worst since we've been keeping statistics."
Although the survey was based on figures from budgets proposed in the spring, the financial picture for most states has not improved since then. Legislators and governors in several states remain at loggerheads over how to slice the ever-shrinking pie, leaving the looming possibility of government shutdowns if budgets are not signed -- or stopgaps passed -- by Tuesday.
In New Hampshire, Gov. Craig Benson, a Republican, vetoed an $8.8 billion two-year budget this morning over a $60 million dispute. His spokesman, Demetrios Karoutos, said in an interview that the package "just spends too much money." In New Jersey, lawmakers' opposition to the increases in hotel, cigarette, telephone and real estate sales taxes proposed by Gov. James E. McGreevey, a Democrat, have created a dayslong impasse of canceled committee hearings and voting sessions. 
In Nebraska, Gov. Mike Johanns, a Republican, announced this afternoon that because the general fund had dwindled to $25 million, he would dip into the state's reserve for the first time since it was established in 1984 to meet a $13 million payroll and $95 million in required school aid due the end of June.
"The state's checking account won't go negative," Governor Johanns said in a teleconference, saying that the general fund had dwindled to $25 million today, with $95 million in school aid and a $13 million payroll due at month's end, so he planned to borrow $60 million over the next two months as he awaits $70 million in expected tax revenue. 
"The state will pay all of its bills, but in order to pay our bills we have to borrow from the state savings account," Governor Johanns said.
Hawaii's Republican governor, Linda Lingle, made a rare prime-time address on Wednesday to warn of a $152 million deficit over the next two years. Oregon's legislature voted today to continue financing state agencies until July 31 at current-year levels as politicians try to fill an $800 million gap in the two-year $10.4 billion discretionary budget.
In Maryland on Wednesday, Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr., a Republican, took the unusual step of ordering $650 million, or about 10 percent of the general fund, withheld from state agencies starting July 1, in anticipation of revenue shortfalls and to begin preparing for a projected $1 billion deficit in fiscal 2005.
"This is a very prudent planning and management step," Neil Bergsman, Maryland's budget director and president of the national budget officers' association, said. "We've been balancing our budgets on fund balances, fund transfers, in some cases accounting changes and other temporary sources. We're getting to the point where that hat is just about empty of rabbits."
The worst situation is in California, which faces a $38.8 billion budget hole over two years. It is considering $4.4 billion in revenue increases. A legislative impasse seems likely to extend beyond the July 1 deadline, as it has 17 times since 1977. 
"We've gotten a bit used to it over the years," Colleen Bentley-Alder, spokeswoman for the California State University system, said. The system received half its $5 billion budget last year from state coffers and is considering a 30 percent tuition increase to offset a likely $330 million cut. "But it does make us apprehensive," she said. "It's unnerving."
National experts said the budget problems were most severe on the West Coast and in the Northeast, where the decline in the dot-com economy and skyrocketing Medicaid expenses have both been particularly acute. What makes the situation worse than what states faced in previous recessions, they said, is its stubbornness: three straight years of revenues falling below projections, leading to deeper cuts where scars remain from previous rounds.
The $14.5 billion in spending cuts made by 37 states in the 2003 fiscal year, for example, came on top of $12.6 billion in cuts the previous year, stated the survey; in the last recession, in the 1992 fiscal year, 35 states cut $4.5 billion. Nineteen states reported negative budget growth in 2003, and the same number project overall budget decreases for the coming year; that is the most states since the twice-yearly fiscal survey began in 1979.
The latest version of the survey, released in Washington this morning, focuses on budgets proposed by the states' governors this spring, lacking updates of what has been passed by legislatures and signed into law. If slightly out of date, it still provides a comprehensive picture, particularly of how states filled holes in the current year's budgets.
In the 2003 fiscal year, 28 states made sweeping cuts across agencies -- 2.5 percent in Michigan, 3.4 percent in West Virginia and 5 percent in Hawaii -- while 22 used reserve funds, 17 fired employees and 10 put workers on furlough. Eight states offered early retirement, 10 cut aid to municipalities, and 10 added fees. Maine, Maryland, New Hampshire and Rhode Island froze hiring.
"It gets very human, because you're going to see reductions in services to people that have faces, that have needs," said Dirk Kempthorne, the Republican governor of Idaho, where everything but education has been cut 10 to 15 percent in the last two years, despite two-year increases in the sales tax (one cent) and cigarette tax (29 cents).
Governor Kempthorne noted that for human-services programs like Medicaid "eligibility requirements will be increased, so you'll see folks who are going without."
For the 2004 fiscal year, the national survey says, 10 governors proposed increased sales taxes; 8, income taxes; 14 suggested raising cigarette taxes; and 6, raising alcohol taxes. It is unclear how many of these plans have been enacted, and many remain under intense debate.
The governor of Connecticut has twice vetoed the budget. Wisconsin legislators passed a package in May, but the governor is considering line-item vetoes. Nevada began a special session on the budgetWednesday. 
Missouri is in a particularly odd stalemate: budgets have been passed for everything except education, but the state Constitution dictates that money go to schools before other agencies, raising questions about whether the government could operate if a school appropriations bill is not signed by Tuesday.
"It's looking ugly either way," the state budget director, Linda Luebbering, said. She added that the package passed by the General Assembly was out of balance, so that even if the governor signed it, he would withhold $240 million, forcing cuts on top of the $1 billion spending shrinkage over the last three years.
Mr. Scheppach, of the governors' group, said he expected revenues to continue to fall short of expectations in the next six months, which means a decline in overall spending of as much as 1 percent, not just the projected 0.1 percent. Even if the economy picks up, he said, the "virtual explosion" in Medicaid costs will keep the states in crisis. 
"It's the Pac-Man of state government," Mr. Scheppach said, noting that 28 states anticipated Medicaid shortfalls next year, as some have costs rise by as much as 18 percent. "It's eating up each additional dollar that is generated in revenue."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Craig Benson of New Hampshire, a Republican, put his veto stamp on an $8.8 billion biennial budget yesterday in a $60 million dispute, saying through a spokesman that it "just spends too much money." (Photographs by Associated Press) Chart: "States Shrinking Reserves"While many states were able to build up their rainy day funds and other general reserves during the 1990s, the economic downturn has caused them to drop to their lowest levels since the boom times of recent years. Chart shows reserve funds, as a percentage of expenditures since 1980. Note: Data are for all 50 states, and reflect fiscal years; 2003 is estimated. (Source: National Association of State Budget Officers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); VETO (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); SALES TAX (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); WORLD WAR II (65%) STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN; NATIONAL ASSN OF STATE BUDGET OFFICERS 

PERSON: MIKE JOHANNS (50%) WILGOREN, JODI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



685 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 64 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Hong Kong: Export Growth 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Hong Kong exports resumed their double-digit growth rate in May after a brief moderation the previous month, as strong gains in trade with China and East Asia offset softer demand in the United States. The figure rose 13.6 percent compared with the month last year; the increase in April this year was 9 percent. The government said exports to East Asia rose more than 10 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRENDS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (94%); EASTERN ASIA (94%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (75%) HONG KONG; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



686 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Taiwan: Interest Rate Cut 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Taiwan matched the United States Federal Reserve with a quarter-point cut in interest rates to protect its export sector and deter deflationary risks. 
The central bank cut its main lending rate to 1.375 percent. Perng Fai-nan, the central bank's governor, said a widening gap between rates in Taiwan and the United States would have influenced the foreign exchange market, possibly raising the value of Taiwan's currency, which would have hurt its exports. "To prevent deflation you must take pre-emptive measures," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); DEFLATION (90%) CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (90%) TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



687 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Aon Opens Office In Lower Manhattan 

BYLINE:  By Tina Kelley (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 Aon Corporation, which lost 176 employees in the World Trade Center attack, celebrated the opening of its Lower Manhattan office at 199 Water Street yesterday, where 700 people will work. Aon, a large insurance company, had 1,151 workers in 2 World Trade Center, according to a New York State Web site, which noted that Aon would receive $15 million in city and state tax benefits over 15 years for staying in Lower Manhattan. 
"It's a remarkable commitment to Lower Manhattan," Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, said in an interview last night. "It sends a critical signal to the rest of the business world that Manhattan's coming back, but it also says something really meaningful about the character of that company." Tina Kelley (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE (87%); INTERVIEWS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AON PLC (93%)

TICKER: AON (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (93%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (93%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



688 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Courting the Rare Big Order for Planes 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
Sales executives from Airbus and Boeing have been meeting with AirTran Airways this week to try to land what would be one of the largest aircraft orders this year, Airbus and AirTran officials said yesterday.
 The executives have been meeting at AirTran's headquarters in Orlando, Fla. The order, for 100 planes, is valued at several billion dollars and will be announced this summer, said Tad Hutcheson, AirTran's marketing director. It would be the biggest order placed so far this year in terms of the number of planes. AirTran intends to take delivery of the first aircraft next year, Mr. Hutcheson said. 
 AirTran, a low-cost carrier and one of the few profitable airlines in the United States, called for proposals in March for 100 aircraft. Airbus and Boeing began wooing the company immediately, and talks have intensified in recent weeks. AirTran is considering planes from either Boeing's 737 family or the Airbus A320 family -- exactly the types of jets that have proved to be popular with growing low-cost airlines.
"We've got a team talking to the airline this week," said Mary Anne Greczyn, an Airbus spokeswoman. "Orlando is a very busy place this week. Everybody who's got a horse in this race is down there."
Ms. Greczyn added that sales representatives from the major engine manufacturers were also in Orlando talking to AirTran. Engines are the most expensive pieces of equipment on a plane.
Airbus has been sending sales executives from its North American headquarters in Herndon, Va. The company is based in Toulouse, France.
As for the progress of negotiations, Mr. Hutcheson simply said, "It's a buyer's market out there."
The order is critical for both airplane makers. Boeing, based in Chicago, is depending on it to show the industry that it can compete favorably against Airbus, especially among low-cost airlines. Airbus, meanwhile, is seeking to increase further its lead over Boeing in terms of numbers of orders landed this year.
A Boeing spokeswoman declined to comment on the negotiations.
AirTran uses a fleet of 64 Boeing 717's and 8 DC-9's. It is phasing out the DC-9's, used on shorter routes, and is taking delivery of nine more 717's before the end of the year.
Last year, Airbus scored a big victory against Boeing when it landed an order for 120 A319's from easyJet, the profitable low-cost airline based near London. That was the biggest commercial plane order placed last year, and the deal also included an option for 120 more planes. JetBlue Airways announced in April that it was ordering 65 more A320's.
On June 16, Emirates Airline signed a contract with Airbus at the Paris Air Show for 41 planes, including 21 A380's, the giant 550-seat aircraft that Airbus will roll into service three years from now. The Emirates deal was valued at $12.5 billion and generated a lot of talk at the air show. Airbus and Boeing executives at the show shied away from talking much about the pending AirTran order, despite their usual air of braggadocio at the show about potential orders.
Mr. Hutcheson said AirTran intended to place an initial order for either Boeing 737-700's or Airbus A319's. But the company could ask for options to upgrade those jets to larger ones from the same fleet families to give it more flexibility. That means the order could later be changed to include the larger 737-800's and 737-900's, or the A320's and A321's.
Depending on the plane type, the number of seats could range from about 120 to 180.
Mr. Hutcheson said the new aircraft would allow AirTran to add more transcontinental routes. AirTran's Boeing 717's cannot fly from the airline's hub in Atlanta to the West Coast. This month, AirTran began service between Los Angeles and Atlanta by leasing two A320's from Ryan International Airlines, based in Wichita, Kan.
Raymond E. Neidl, an analyst at Blaylock & Partners, wrote in an investors' note yesterday that "multiple expansion is warranted" in AirTran's near future and that he expected the airline to gain market share and remain profitable at least until 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT ORDERS (92%); AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SALES MANAGEMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (79%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); SALES FORCE (74%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (58%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (94%); BOEING CO (92%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (83%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AIRBUS INDUSTRIE; BOEING CO; AIRTRAN AIRWAYS INC 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (83%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; SIC3728 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD; HUTCHESON, TAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



689 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Views In Pakistan On Amount Of U.S. Aid 

BYLINE:  By CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Afghanistan, June 26 

 BODY:
The announcement made at Camp David on Wednesday that President Pervez Musharraf had won $3 billion in aid from the United States elicited a mixed reaction today in Pakistan, reflecting both political opposition to the president and a popular view that America should do more.
 The Islamist parties, which are at loggerheads with General Musharraf over his changes to the Constitution and his continued role as both military chief and president, called the military and economic aid, which is to be spread out over five years, inadequate and even insulting. 
 "Musharraf has provided every support in the so-called war against terrorism, but in return what has he got? I would say nothing for the people of Pakistan," Khursheed Ahmed, vice president of Jamaat-e-Islami, Pakistan's main Islamic party, told journalists in Islamabad. 
He accused General Musharraf of making Pakistan subservient to the United States, and he called the American refusal to consider sales of F-16 fighter jets, which Pakistan has sought for 14 years, "a slap on the face."
Even Prime Minister Zafarullah Khan Jamali, who is loyal to the president, sounded disappointed when he spoke to reporters in Multan, a town in southern Pakistan. Mr. Jamali said expectations had been raised by earlier press reports of $6 billion in aid, plus some debt forgiveness.
"All wishes cannot be fulfilled," he said.
But the prime minister also stressed the symbolic significance of the fact that the aid will be disbursed for years to come. 
"America has made it clear there will be a durable friendship with Pakistan," he said. "Apart from the package there is an understanding that the countries stand side by side. It's a good step that can be taken further."
Pakistan's financial sector has generally welcomed the deal. Farkhan Bokhari, a leading financial journalist and commentator, called the package "hefty" in an opinion-page article in The News today, while financial analysts have welcomed the news from Finance Minister Shaukat Aziz that $1 billion of the aid will be used to retire much of Pakistan's $1.8 billion public debt to the United States.
Mr. Bokhari and others pointed out, however, that $3 billion was less than the amount Gen. Muhammad Zia ul-Haq received for Pakistan's support of Afghan guerrillas fighting the Soviet army in Afghanistan in the 1980's. General Zia ruled Pakistan from 1977 to 1988 as president and chief of the armed forces. 
In an editorial, The News went so far as to say that the terms of the American assistance showed that General Musharraf had gone "beyond the extra mile and took risks that could have a serious backlash."
Such comments, which were widespread in Pakistan's press, suggest a broad perception that the country has suffered economically since Sept. 11, 2001, for its support of the United States. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 28, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about reaction within Pakistan to President Bush's proposal for a $3 billion aid package misstated the day the offer was made. It was Tuesday, when Gen. Pervez Musharraf, the Pakistani president, was meeting with Mr. Bush at Camp David, not Wednesday.
The article also carried an incorrect dateline. It was reported from Islamabad, Pakistan, not from Afghanistan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ARMIES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); TERRORISM (75%); WRITERS (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); RELIGION (54%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN AID; TERRORISM 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (91%) GALL, CARLOTTA; MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); JAMALI, ZAFARULLAH KHAN (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



690 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: WEAPON PROGRAMS; 
Iraqi Says Hussein Planned to Revive the Nuclear Program Dismantled in 1991

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26 

 BODY:
The White House said today that an Iraqi scientist who led American forces to blueprints and prototype equipment for enriching uranium claimed Saddam Hussein had intended to revive his nuclear program as soon as the United Nations lifted sanctions against Iraq. 
 The scientist, Mahdi Obeidi, said he had been ordered in 1991 to bury the plans and equipment for gas centrifuges under the garden of his house in Baghdad. Today the International Atomic Energy Agency said the fact that the stash remained untouched was evidence that Iraq had not resumed its nuclear program since inspections began after the Persian Gulf War. 
 In the aftermath of the 1991 war, American officials and the nuclear agency determined that Mr. Hussein had been far closer to producing a bomb -- perhaps as close as six months -- than the agency or American intelligence had estimated. The many centrifuges that Mr. Hussein was constructing were dismantled, and the parts shipped out of the country. 
Dr. Obeidi had headed the uranium-enrichment program prior to 1991, and was one of the scientists American officials most wanted to interview. 
But while the nuclear agency said the discovery under Dr. Obeidi's rose garden was evidence of successful arms control, the White House took a distinctly diferent view. It said the information that Dr. Obeidi volunteered -- after he denied any knowledge of surviving equipment during an interview by arms inspectors last year -- was evidence that President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney were correct in saying that Mr. Hussein had never given up hope of building nuclear weapons.
Mr. Cheney stated on "Meet the Press" in March that Iraq "has, in fact, reconstituted nuclear weapons."
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said today of Iraq's nuclear program: "Nobody said it was operative. We expressed concerns about the development of a nuclear program, but nobody ever maintained that Iraq had nuclear weapons." 
Mr. Fleischer said that the components in a barrel under Dr. Obeidi's rose garden were only one piece of the Iraqi program, and that others would inevitably be found. "It's certainly not the only garden in Iraq," he said. "We hope this will lead other scientists to step forward."
Administration officials familiar with what Dr. Obeidi uncovered for the Central Intelligence Agency said he had come forward in May. 
"We not making any claims about what we have," one senior administration official said today. "My understanding is that these are the blueprints and the critical components."
Dr. Obeidi has been taken out of Iraq to prevent reprisals against him, offficials said. He told CNN that there may be three or more other sets of similar parts, hidden by other scientists. But administration officials said no other scientists had come forward.
Mr. Fleischer described the equipment as "a template for what would have been needed to rebuild their centrifuge enrichment program." He said the plan, according to Dr. Obeidi, was to dig them up after sanctions were lifted, when it would be easier for Iraq to obtain the high-tech materials it would need to restart its weapons program.
"What was under the garden would have saved them several years and million of dollars in reconstituting their work," the senior official said today.
But that is different from saying that Mr. Hussein was any closer to a nuclear weapon. To enrich uranium -- a process that North Korea and Iran have well under way, according to American intelligence officials -- Mr. Hussein would have needed hundreds or thousands of precisely machined centrifuges, arrayed together. 
If working perfectly, such a "cascade" could produce enough material in a year or so to produce a bomb.
That program was well under way in 1991, American and international intelligence sources reported. And the administration contends that in recent years, Mr. Hussein's government sought to obtain uranium yellowcake from Africa to provide the raw material for bomb production, and aluminum tubes that would be part of the centrifuges. 
The reports about the yellowcake have been widely challenged. And prior to the invasion of Iraq this year, the administration and the United Nations inspectors differed on the importance of the aluminium tubes, with the nuclear agency declaring that the tubes were not designed for nuclear use.
Separately today, the White House and State Department both reiterated their support for a C.I.A. view that trailers found in Iraq were for biological weapons, despite the disclosure of a classified memorandum from the State Department's intelligence branch that has described that conclusion as premature.
"Our view, and the secretary's view, U.S. government view, is that these are mobile biological weapons laboratories," the State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, said. But Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat, wrote a letter to the C.I.A. director, George Tenet, asking for further explanation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mahdi Obeidi, the Iraqi scientist who led Americans to a barrel filled with nuclear blueprints and equipment that could be used to enrich uranium. (Seamus Conlan/World Picture News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CENTRIFUGES (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); INSPECTIONS (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; PERSIAN GULF WAR 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%) INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY; UNITED NATIONS; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; OBEIDI, MAHDI (DR); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); GULF STATES (73%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



691 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: City Still Has Money Problems Waiting Down the Line, Budget Experts Say 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Although analysts see fewer risks in the budget that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council agreed to this week than the one they passed last year, they warned yesterday that the coming year was still something of a fiscal minefield.
 New York State is awash in red ink, and if its budget falls apart, the city could lose needed money. 
 The city budget contains no money to give raises to city employees, so any that are not offset by productivity measures could open a hole in the budget.
Then there are the usual questions about which way the economy, and therefore tax collections, will go, and whether the city will be able to contain overtime costs. 
Even if everything breaks the right way for the city in the fiscal year that begins on Tuesday, officials now say that the gap for the following year will be $2 billion. The mayor has basically ruled out closing that gap with more tax increases. 
"Barring some totally unforeseen thing, tax increases are clearly behind us," he said this week.
All of which leaves some fiscal experts predicting that despite the many cuts that were averted in the budget, there will probably be more ahead -- if not to make up for new shortfalls, then to get an early start on the following year's gap. 
A $2 billion deficit may not sound that daunting, considering that the city just closed a gap that was put at $6.4 billion less than a year ago. But balancing the budget gets harder and harder over time, because the city has already made waves of cuts and raised taxes.
Ronnie Lowenstein, the director of the Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan city agency, said: "They've been shaking the trees for some time now. We're looking at $2 billion having done significant tax increases, and significant spending cuts. Each billion gets harder to do. We would expect that barring some favorable news, the city will need to begin addressing it before the end of the fiscal year."
That is just what the city did this year. Last July, just weeks after the Council passed a budget for fiscal year 2003, the city's budget director, Mark Page, sent a letter to city agencies calling for more cuts to begin saving money for the fiscal year that begins next week. Then the Council passed a midyear property tax increase, again with the looming budget gap in mind.
Those two actions helped the city end the current fiscal year with a surplus now estimated at $1.5 billion, which will be used to balance the coming fiscal year's budget. 
But city officials said they had no plans to order another round of cuts right away.
If things do not break the city's way -- if the economy sours again, or the city loses an expensive lawsuit or fails to stick to its spending plan -- more cuts may be needed during the midyear modifications that the city regularly makes to its budget.
The city and state comptrollers have each pointed to several unknowns in the budget, like police overtime costs and $200 million in back rent for the city's airports that the city is counting on from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
A report by Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller, noted that the city's plan to pay for all labor raises with money saved by productivity measures "is a strategy the city has been unable to implement since the 1970's fiscal crisis."
Raises of just 2.5 percent would cost the city $800 million, according to an analysis by the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed fiscal research group.
But several analysts said this year's budget contains fewer risks than last year's did, in part because a $2.7 billion tax and aid package from Albany is already in place.
There has been some uncertainty about the Albany package. Gov. George E. Pataki has said the state's plan to save the city $500 million a year by paying off the city's remaining debt from the fiscal crisis of the 1970's is unconstitutional. 
Kevin Quinn, a spokesman for the governor's budget office, said yesterday that the governor was committed to addressing his concerns in a way that "the city can achieve the savings that they are counting on" next year. 
Still, some fiscal monitors questioned the decision by Mayor Bloomberg and the City Council to restore more than $200 million in proposed cuts that were unpopular.
"They're not out of the woods," said Edmund J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group.
"I sense something approaching irrational exuberance here. Circa 1992, there was an eye-of-the-storm feeling in the middle of the troubles." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); OVERTIME (71%); PROPERTY TAX (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



692 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Bush Calls for Changes in Africa To End Wars and Promote Trade 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26 

 BODY:
President Bush outlined an ambitious agenda today for advancing peace and prosperity in Africa. He demanded that Liberia's leader step down to avert further bloodshed in his country, called for a change of government in Zimbabwe and for the dispatching of an envoy to broker an end to the long civil war in Sudan. 
 Speaking to a group of African leaders, business executives and investors here, Mr. Bush also pledged $100 million to help Kenya and other countries fight terrorism and made a case for expanded trade as the most powerful engine for fighting poverty on the continent. 
 Mr. Bush is to leave in 11 days on his first trip as president to sub-Saharan Africa, and his speech today was his most expansive statement of policy on the continent to date. It was particularly striking for his blunt calls for change in nations that have been wracked by violence. 
Among them was Liberia, where there has been heavy fighting between rebels and forces loyal to President Charles Taylor, who has been indicted on war crimes charges in a court run jointly by the neighboring nation of Sierra Leone and the United Nations. 
"President Taylor needs to step down," Mr. Bush said, "so that his country can be spared further bloodshed." 
But he gave no indication that he would respond to calls from people in Liberia to send American troops to stop the fighting there, which has intensified in recent days after Mr. Taylor reversed a promise earlier this month to yield power as part of a cease-fire agreement. 
Mr. Bush made clear his willingness to use the diplomatic influence of the United States in an effort to transform some of Africa's worst battlegrounds, including Liberia, Sudan and Congo, but he suggested that he would not seek to exert power unilaterally. He called on regional governments and pan-African organizations to end a "cycle of attack and escalation" among the warring parties and build effective peacekeeping forces. 
"It is Africans who will overcome these problems," Mr. Bush said. "Yet the United States of America and other nations will stand beside them." 
Most recent presidents have dipped from time to time into Africa's problems. But, in part because there is limited domestic political pressure to do so, they have rarely shown a lasting commitment to dealing with the continent's deeply rooted troubles. 
Congress has also proven reluctant to provide large-scale economic aid or to make trade concessions that would extract a price from domestic constituencies.
But to the surprise of many advocacy groups who have long called on the United States to do more to fight disease and poverty in Africa, Mr. Bush has taken an increasing interest in the region, and has proposed substantial increases in spending to fight AIDS and promote economic development.
In doing so, aides said, he has been pushed along by a diverse group of advisers, from Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, an early and forceful advocate of increased engagement in Africa, to religious organizations, who have cited the humanitarian imperative, to his national security team, which has called for action to keep some African nations from harboring and breeding terrorists. 
In his half-hour speech, to the U.S.-Africa Business Summit, he laid out a vision of an Africa policy built on a moral duty to address suffering, a national interest in promoting stability in failed states and an ideological belief in spreading democracy and capitalism.
"This is a long term commitment," Mr. Bush said. "And I know there are serious obstacles to overcome. Introducing democracy is hard in any society. It's much harder in a society torn by war, or held back by corruption. The promise of free markets means little when millions are illiterate or hungry, or dying from a preventable disease." 
The United States, he said, would stand with and aid those nations that showed a willingness to tackle their problems. 
"Corrupt regimes that give nothing to their people deserve nothing from us," he said. "Governments that serve their people deserve our help, and we will provide that help." 
Following up on Mr. Powell's call this week for South Africa and other African nations to do more to oust President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, whose increasingly authoritarian rule is driving the country into economic and political chaos, Mr. Bush said it was time "to encourage a return to democracy" in that country. 
Mr. Bush also pledged an active role in bringing peace to Sudan, where, he said, two million people have died over the last two decades in Africa's longest-running civil war. He said he had asked his special envoy to Sudan, John C. Danforth, a former Republican senator from Missouri, to travel to the country in two weeks to bring an end to the conflict. 
"He will make clear that the only option on the table is peace," Mr. Bush said of Mr. Danforth. 
The president's plan to allocate $100 million to help Kenya and several other countries bolster antiterrorism efforts will go to help improve security at airports and ports, step up border patrols and develop better databases and intelligence sharing about terrorists. 
Kenya, the site of a terrorist attack against Israeli vacationers last November that was linked to Al Qaeda and of a 1998 attack on the United States Embassy in Nairobi that killed more than 200 people, has been hard hit by a downturn in tourism this year because of terrorism fears, deepening its economic problems. 
Mr. Bush repeated his call for the European Union to allow imports from Africa of genetically modified agricultural products. Europe currently bars imports of most genetically altered foods, a position that American officials say has discouraged Africans from planting them and therefore from reaping the benefits of higher yields in countries that are chronically short both of food and export opportunities. 
If Africa were to grow and raise genetically modified crops and animals on a large scale, their higher yield might allow the continent to raise the volume of its agricultural exports and feed more of its own people at the same time. 
Europeans, however, have strongly resisted the introduction of genetically modified foods. 
Mr. Bush did not specify whether he would support trade policy changes in the United States that many African leaders say are vital to the economic development of their countries. Among them are allowing textile imports, which are effectively barred under current legislation, and cutting subsidies to American farmers on crops also grown in Africa, especially cotton. 
Susan E. Rice, a former assistant secretary of state for African affairs under President Bill Clinton, said the speech showed considerable continuity in policy toward Africa since Mr. Clinton's two terms in office. But she said Mr. Bush did not go far enough in finding ways to promote more investment and economic expansion in Africa. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); WAR CRIMES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); TRENDS (73%); INDICTMENTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); AIDS & HIV (70%); ARMED FORCES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TAYLOR, CHARLES (PRES); MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES); DANFORTH, JOHN C 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SUDAN (94%); LIBERIA (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); KENYA (79%) AFRICA; LIBERIA; ZIMBABWE; SUDAN

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



693 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1805 words

HEADLINE: FEARS ASIDE, CITY AVOIDS STEEP CUTS 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
Fire marshals will no longer investigate most car fires. There will be 3,500 fewer police officers compared to three years ago. Inmates on Rikers Island will not get intensive drug counseling. And most city libraries are now open five days, instead of six.
 It is hardly the kind of thank you that New Yorkers might expect after being asked to pay higher income, sales and property taxes in the fiscal year that starts Tuesday. But despite those cuts, New York City government will offer an array of services that is still more generous than it was early in Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's tenure, when New York faced its last major fiscal crunch. And the cuts agreed to this week by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council are just a pittance compared to the wholesale reduction of basic government operations that occurred during the mid-1970's fiscal crisis. 
 The less drastic state of affairs comes after Mr. Bloomberg abandoned threats to cut after-school programs for children, close city pools, slash street and sidewalk repairs and reduce the frequency of the Staten Island Ferry. In fact, so few of the dire budget cuts that Mayor Bloomberg warned of earlier this year remain that most New Yorkers will find it extremely difficult to discern any difference in the services they have become accustomed to receiving from their local government. 
That means that on Tuesday, the sprawling $44 billion enterprise that is the New York City government will to a large extent merely return to service levels that were common before Mr. Giuliani went on a second-term spending spree, expanding city programs with surpluses fueled by Wall Street. So Mr. Bloomberg's latest spending plan might more accurately be labeled a "pre-boom" budget, not a "recession era" one.
In the simplest of terms, the deal reached on Wednesday on the new $44 billion budget means that city-taxpayer-financed spending will have increased 2.7 percent in the first fiscal year of the mayor's tenure and 4.9 percent in his second year. By comparison, in the first year of Mr. Giuliani's tenure, spending dropped by 3.1 percent, followed by an increase in his second year of 2.3 percent.
The most pressing question that emerges fromthis calculus in the minds of the professional budget watchers, and perhaps among more than a few taxpayers, is did Mayor Bloomberg and the City Council cut enough, given the extra burden imposed on city residents through higher taxes and fees? 
For fiscal conservatives, the answer is obvious: the balance is somewhat out of whack. "Citizens are being asked to sacrifice far less in terms of services in this go-around compared to the 1970's and the early 1990's," said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed research group. "We are not in favor of service cuts. But the way the city closed the budget gap has been too heavy on taxes."
Anthony Coles, a deputy mayor in the Giuliani administration, said, "City services have not been cut to the bone."
But for others who put a premium on maintaining the quality of life in New York City -- a particularly sensitive topic in this post-Sept. 11 era -- Mr. Bloomberg made the right choice in leaning more on tax increases than service cuts. City residents and businesses, they said, are still reeling from the damage caused by the terrorist attack and do not want to be subjected to noticeably dirtier streets and sidewalks, poorly maintained parks, bigger public school class sizes and much longer lines in some city hospitals and health clinics, all of which happened, at least to some extent, after the cuts in the mid-1970's and the early 1990's.
Mayor Bloomberg and Council Speaker Gifford Miller both made that point after they shook hands Wednesday evening at City Hall, where they announced the budget deal. "It will provide the services that the people of New York City have a right to expect," Mr. Bloomberg said before praising the Council for its support. The mayor and Council, Mr. Miller added, acted responsibly: "We have asked in these difficult times for people to sacrifice, for people to contribute a little bit more to their city because it is the right thing to do to build for recovery."
The Bloomberg administration does not dispute that some city agencies emerged almost unscathed. Consider the Department of Transportation. Earlier this year, the agency announced that it might have to cut midday and weekend service on the Staten Island Ferry, reduce inspections and cleanup crews on city bridges, slow down the repair of potholes and sidewalks and cut the express bus service on weekends from the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens into Manhattan. None of those threats materialized. About the only cut the department can still identify is turning off the string lights used to illuminate the East River bridges at night. 
"We are kind of back to normal," said Tom Cocola, a Department of Transportation spokesman. "The revenues came through."
Similarly, the Parks Department was going to slash its seasonal maintenance workers, force the closing of zoos in Brooklyn and Queens by withdrawing its subsidy and stop trimming the city's 500,000 street trees, except in emergencies. All of those threatened cuts have been dropped.
But the story is not uniform. During the 1970's fiscal crisis, the Fire Department lost more than 2,000 firefighters and 16 fire companies were abolished. The fire commissioner at the time, John T. O'Hagan, acknowledged that property damage as a result of fires probably increased slightly because of the resulting somewhat slower response times. The Fire Department also severely cut back its fire code violation inspection teams.
In the city's new budget, the cuts are nowhere near as severe. Six engine companies -- picked because they were close to otherexisting stations -- were eliminated. That action has prompted intense protest, but city officials argue that in five of the six cases -- in Cobble Hill, Greenpoint, Williamsburg and Sunset Park, all in Brooklyn, and East Harlem -- the response times should remain within the citywide average of 4 minutes 46 seconds. Only the neighborhood once served by Engine 261 in Long Island City will have to wait longer; the average response time should now be 5 minutes 10 seconds, compared to 4:08 before.
The Fire Department will also end up with a staff of fire marshals totaling about 100, half of what it was two years ago. As a result, the marshals will most likely make 1,500 to 2,000 fewer investigations in the coming year, no longer automatically seeking to determine the cause of routine car fires or modest and unsuspicious building fires.
The party most severely affected by this cut will likely be insurance companies, which rely on these investigations as they seek to figure out who is to blame and how to divvy up the cost of repairing damage.
The school system, as the budget now stands, will have to do without 860 of its school paraprofessionals and the equivalent of 767 full-time school aides, who monitor hallways and bathrooms and distribute books, among other duties. These cuts, if they are not withdrawn, should save the city about $53 million. But Chancellor Joel I. Klein has said that despite these and other reductions, individual city schools would get more money than last year because of new sources of money and the way the system is managed. 
Libraries are taking one of the hardest hits. During the 1970's, the New York Public Library branches were open only three or four days a week. But even during the recession in the early 1990's, the libraries maintained a six-day-a-week schedule that had started at the end of the Dinkins administration. Now, most branch libraries have been cut back to five days. As of this spring, the mayor had called for cuts that would have forced an even shorter weekly. But with money put back in by the mayor and Council this month, the most likely impact will be less money in the coming year to buy more books, City Council officials said.
Many service cuts Mr. Bloomberg has imposed since taking office essentially bring the city back to a level that existed not too long ago.
As of 2000, as the city was enjoying record budget surpluses and spending started to grow at a rate far above inflation, every neighborhood in the city had weekly recycling pickup, instead of every other week, as it had been citywide before 1998. On July 1, the city will return to every-other-week pickup for nine months. But city residents will not see more street-corner litter baskets overflowing, because unlike in the early years of the Giuliani administration, Mr. Bloomberg is not curtailing the special crews that do extra pickups for these heavily used trash baskets.
And while the Bloomberg administration had earlier stopped recycling of some items, it is now bringing them back, first with plastic next month, and then with glass in April. 
The Police Department will see its uniformed force level off around 37,500 officers in the coming fiscal year, roughly equal to 1996. As Mayor Giuliani funneled more money to public safety -- the Police Department and the city schools benefited the most from the increased spending in his second term -- the force hit 40,710 officers in 2000. The rollback from this peak has forced Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly to eliminate Operation Condor, a three-year-old program that put several hundred million dollars worth of overtime into narcotics sweeps and later was used to pay for officers working additional days to enforce quality-of-life laws.
The Narcotics Division, which once had nearly 3,000 detectives and officers, now has fewer than 2,000. Precincts are patrolling the streets with fewer uniformed officers, and in some cases can only field one or two patrol cars on the midnight-to-8 a.m. shift. The uniformed task forces that serve as reinforcements for precincts and respond to special events are also short-handed, as are detective squads.
Crime nonetheless has continued to decline. Reports of overall serious crime are down 7.71 percent so far this year, but murder has recently ticked up 3.1 percent. The end result is that the Police Department now has fewer officers than it did a couple of years ago, but still more than it had before 1994.
From Mr. Bloomberg's perspective, the bottom line is this: Even as fixed costs have risen, the city will spend $2.6 billion less than planned when he arrived in office in January 2002. That amount has been captured because of his administration's insistence that agencies cut spending. The city has canceled increases in spending that agencies had been counting on, or asked agencies to find ways to deliver the same services with less money, like buying food in bulk for school children, the elderly and the homeless.
Finally, the savings came through some small, selective service cuts.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "What Was Cut, and What Could Have Been"Some examples of budget cuts that did and did not make it through the New York City's budget process. THREATENED CUTS THAT DID NOT HAPPEN Eliminating two youth programsAMOUNT: $18.0 million Less maintenance of city parksAMOUNT: 12.5 Eliminating a summer youth jobs programAMOUNT: 12.5 Less frequent household trash pickupAMOUNT: 11.0 Cutting 1,200 child-care slotsAMOUNT: 9.0 Closing zoos in Brooklyn and QueensAMOUNT: 5.8 Cutting City University scholarshipsAMOUNT: 5.5 Cutting service on the Staten Island FerryAMOUNT: 2.4 Eliminating take-home weekend meals for 7,500 seniorsAMOUNT: 1.7 SOME CUTS STILL SLATED TO TAKE PLACE Library book budget, and other cutsAMOUNT: $22.9 million Support for museums, and other cultural groupsAMOUNT: 12.0 Instituting biweekly recycling until AprilAMOUNT: 11.0 Eliminating six fire companiesAMOUNT: 8.0 Eliminating drug abuse counseling for inmatesAMOUNT: 6.0 Reducing the number of fire marshals by 25 percentAMOUNT: 1.4 *The amounts of remaining cuts are based on City Council accounting. (Source: New York City Council)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FIRES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); FERRIES (73%); LIBRARIES (72%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (67%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%) LIPTON, ERIC; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003 



694 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Adequacy in Education: Why Is Clear. But How? 

BYLINE:  By Peter Schrag; Peter Schrag is author of the forthcoming "Final Test: The Struggle for Adequacy in America's Schools."

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
The landmark ruling on Thursday by New York's highest court that the state is shortchanging New York City's school system was a much-needed victory for its 1.1 million students. But in itself, the ruling is not a remedy. It's just one step in a complex and uncertain process that dozens of states, from New Jersey to California, have been struggling with for years. 
 The issue of "adequacy" has become central to that struggle. In the New York case, the Court of Appeals ruled that inadequate financing by the state was depriving students of an adequate education. It ordered the state to determine the cost of providing adequate resources to schools in New York City, which has the state's neediest students and the state's highest costs. But what is adequate schooling and who determines it? What if the Legislature and governor in Albany, already facing major budget deficits, do not provide the necessary resources or do not reform spending in ways that the court finds sufficient? 
 The court's powers are limited. As Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye noted in the court's 4-1 ruling, "decisions about spending priorities are the Legislature's province." The judges' only real power is the power to say no. 
Sometimes that works, as it did in Kentucky in 1989. A ruling by the state Supreme Court led to a complete restructuring of Kentucky's education system and provided a model for education advocates in other states -- including New York -- for what it takes to provide an adequate education. 
But sometimes such rulings don't work. In a series of decisions dating back to 1997, the Ohio Supreme Court ordered the Legislature to undertake "a complete systematic overhaul" of the way the state financed its schools. While the state made fixes and raised spending, the overhaul -- essentially a reduction of the schools' dependence on local revenue -- never occurred. Earlier this year, the court in effect gave up. In Alabama last year, after a new set of conservative judges was elected, the state Supreme Court reversed its previous position supporting court-ordered education reforms.
But the power of the courts is not the only issue. There are other questions that will come into play, like how much of a difference money makes in achieving adequate education. Economists like Eric Hanushek at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University argue that money, by itself, makes very little difference in improving schools. 
New York City schools get less money per pupil than the state average, and much less than most of their suburban neighbors. But they get far more than virtually all other urban districts, many of which -- Chicago, Los Angeles, Philadelphia -- have similar proportions of educationally disadvantaged students. And if the Legislature creates a formula that locks a portion of state revenues up for the schools, what of the needs of other, equally important social services? What if the prescribed remedies don't work?
And yet the Court of Appeals' ruling is enormously important. It makes clear that good schooling is ultimately a state responsibility, no matter how inadequate the funds from local taxpayers or how mismanaged a local district may be. 
In delivering its decision, the court also rejected the crimped reasoning of last year's ruling by the Appellate Division that seemed to justify sub-standard schooling, saying in effect that an eighth- or ninth-grade education was all the state was constitutionally obligated to provide. Instead, the Court of Appeals essentially reinstated an expansive 2001 decision by the original trial judge, Leland DeGrasse, that the state was constitutionally obligated to deliver the minimum of a high school education. 
Most important, Thursday's decision is likely to encourage adequacy efforts across the nation, both in statehouses and in the courts. Adequacy means allocating resources not through the usual legislative horse-trading that divides up funds according to the relative power of competing interests. Instead, it demands, as Judge Kaye said, "determining the actual cost of providing a sound basic education" -- teachers, materials, facilities -- and creating the fiscal and governance structure to deliver it. 
Although Judge Kaye's majority opinion specifically applied only to New York City, it will almost certainly help set the standard for other districts, both in New York State and elsewhere. Two hours after the New York decision was announced, lawyers in California, where the American Civil Liberties Union and other groups are suing the state in a similar adequacy case, wrote a letter to the Superior Court judge hearing the case to inform him of the New York ruling.
At a time when lawmakers and educators in New York and across the nation are imposing tougher academic standards -- mandatory tests on which graduation and sometimes promotion depends, more demanding course requirements, sanctions on "failing schools" -- states have a commensurate responsibility to provide the resources to give all students a fair chance to succeed.
Defining what an adequate education is, much less achieving it, is not an easy task. But efforts to achieve it provide the most hopeful promise yet that millions of poor and minority children -- and many others -- can receive the education they deserve and, as the court ruled on Thursday, they have a right to. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPEALS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); SUBURBS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



695 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Outbreak of Profit Taking Snaps June Winning Streak

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended a four-week winning streak yesterday as investors cashed in profits despite reports of modest growth in consumer income and spending. The Dow lost nearly 90 points to close below the 9,000 mark. 
 Analysts said trading was light, contributing to sharper price swings. 
 "The market has been so strong recently, people are trying to take some gains and head out of the city," said Peter Dunay, chief market strategist at Wall Street Access, a New York-based brokerage firm. 
The Dow industrials fell 89.99 points, or 1 percent, to close at 8,989.05, having gained 67 points Thursday. The last time the blue chips closed below 9,000 was June 9, when they finished at 8,980.00. 
The broader market also finished lower. The Nasdaq composite index declined 8.75 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,625.26. The S.& P. 500 index fell 9.60 points, or 1 percent, to 976.22. 
For the week, all three main gauges declined, with the Dow falling 2.3 percent, the Nasdaq decreasing 1.2 percent and the S.& P. losing 2 percent. It was the Nasdaq's second losing week in three. 
The Commerce Department reported yesterday that consumer spending edged up by 0.1 percent in May for the second consecutive month. Personal incomes, meanwhile, rose by 0.3 percent, compared with a 0.2 percent gain in April. 
The increase in consumer spending in May fell short of analysts' expectations of a 0.2 percent gain; the income growth matched estimates. 
The University of Michigan said its June report on consumer sentiment declined to 89.7 from 92.1 in May. Still, the reading was better than economists' expectations. 
Robert Harrington, who helps lead listed block trading at UBS, said trading was choppy because of window-dressing, or fund managers trying to make their holdings look as good as possible at the end of a quarter. 
"We've had a good quarter, so some people are repositioning their portfolios," he said. 
Stocks have rallied in the last three months, but analysts say investors are now searching for more solid evidence the economic recovery is back on track. The second-quarter earnings season will be particularly important in offering investors guidance, they say. 
Nike dropped $3.85, to $53.08, after the company reported a quarterly profit that fell a penny shy of analysts' estimates. 
Abbott Laboratories fell $1.22, to $43.60, after it said it would take a $622 million second-quarter charge to settle an investigation into sales practices for liquids needed to feed the seriously ill.
Gainers included Genentech, which rose 85 cents, to $73.60, after it company received fast-track designation from the Food and Drug Administration for its Avastin cancer treatment. 
In the Treasury securities market, prices declined.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 11/32, to a price of 100 11/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.58 percent from 3.54 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 20/32, to 112. The yield rose to 4.61 percent from 4.57 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); ONCOLOGY (60%); CANCER (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: ABBOTT LABORATORIES (80%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: ABT (SWX) (80%); ABT (NYSE) (80%); ABT (LSE) (80%); ABL (FRA) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



696 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Both Income And Spending Were Higher Last Month 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Consumers spent more money in May for a third consecutive month and incomes rose, pointing to a second-half pickup in the economy, government figures showed yesterday.
 The 0.1 percent spending increase matched the revised April increase and incomes rose 0.3 percent, the Commerce Department said. Adjusted for a decline in prices, consumer spending increased 0.3 percent for a second month. 
 The end of major combat in Iraq in April, higher stock prices and the lowest interest rates in four decades buoyed consumer confidence in May and contributed to a higher-than-expected reading this month.
"The momentum in consumer spending appears to be picking up," said Jayanth Nazareth, an economist at J. P. Morgan Chase in New York, and that is "adding to the evidence that economic growth is poised to rebound in the second half of the year."
Consumer confidence fell less than economists expected this month after hitting an 11-month high in May, another report showed. The University of Michigan's sentiment index fell to 89.7 from last month's 92.1. The result was higher than both the preliminary reading earlier this month and the forecast of 87.8, the median of 53 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. 
The spending report released yesterday includes "some encouraging news on the economy, while still raising a warning flag on deflation," said Sherry Cooper, chief economist at BMO Nesbitt Burns in Toronto. The personal consumption expenditures price index, a reading of inflation tied to spending and a measure watched by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, fell 0.1 percent last month.
Excluding food and energy, the personal consumption expenditures index was unchanged in May and was 1.2 percent higher than in May of last year. That increase was the lowest since a 1 percent year-over-year rise in September 2001, after the terrorist attacks. Excluding that month, the May year-over-year change was the smallest since the 12 months that ended in October 1965, the Commerce Department said.
Economists had expected an increase of 0.2 percent in spending not adjusted for changes in prices.
Spending on services, which account for half the report, rose 0.5 percent, the biggest increase since January, after rising 0.3 percent in April. Adjusted for inflation, spending on services rose 0.2 percent for a second month.
Spending on durable goods like autos, appliances and other expensive items intended to last at least three years fell 0.1 percent in May, adjusted for price changes, after rising 3 percent in April.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Personal Income"Total personal income in trillions of dollars, before taxes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Graph tracks personal income from December 2001 to May 2003. Personal Income and SpendingBillions of dollars, seasonally adjusted annual rates. MayIncome: $9,163.7Consumption: 7,575.2 Change from AprilIncome: +0.3%Consumption: +0.1 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); INTEREST RATES (56%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); BMO NESBITT BURNS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



697 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: In Schools Case, a Certainty: Only 400 Days to Comply 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
In its landmark decision on Thursday striking down New York State's method of financing public education, the state's highest court was perhaps most clear in setting a deadline: the Legislature and Gov. George E. Pataki have until July 30, 2004 -- a total of 400 days -- to set things right. 
 That is 400 days to figure out what it should cost to provide New York City's 1.1 million schoolchildren with a "sound basic education." A mere 400 days to devise a new formula for distributing more than $14.5 billion in state education aid that will give the city what it needs without shortchanging the rest of the state. 
 And so, now, the hard work begins. But first, back to court.
In its ruling, the Court of Appeals sent the case back to Justice Leland DeGrasse of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan. Lawyers for the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, the advocacy group that brought and won the suit, said they would go to court to ask Justice DeGrasse to lay out a road map for the next 400 days, including deadlines for the state to report its progress. 
Beyond that, the path is uncertain.
"We're into Day 2 of a brave new world," said Assemblyman Steven Sanders, who is the chairman of the Assembly's Education Committee, echoing the sentiments of many state and local officials. "I don't know exactly at this moment how we are going to proceed." 
He added: "The Court of Appeals gave us a very short time to resolve this. Thirteen months is a very short period of time." 
Even the victors in the caseare not quite sure what lies ahead. "I think we have to think through what this all means, who has to do what and how we get them to do it," said Joseph P. Wayland, one of the plaintiffs' chief lawyers. 
One of the earliest orders of business, officials said, will be for the state to comply with the court's order to conduct a "costing out" study to determine the price of a sound basic education. Such studies are complicated, experts said, and the results are often subject to dispute. 
By no coincidence, such a study is already under way, at the direction of the Campaign for Fiscal Equity and its executive director, Michael A. Rebell, who raised about $1.2 million to pay for it. 
Mr. Rebell said courts had ordered such studies in other states that had faced similar lawsuits, and he had expected the Court of Appeals to do the same.
The state will likely be under no obligation to use this study's findings, which are expected by March. Whether the state will commission a study or try an analysis of previous research remains to be seen. 
In a move to disarm critics about the impartiality of the study, Mr. Rebell noted that two of the experts working on his group's study had testified during the case on behalf of the Pataki administration. 
Tom Parrish, of the American Institute for Research, one of the two groups running the study, said that researchers were using some statistical methods to determine the cost of a sound education. However, Mr. Parrish said, they are primarily focused on the opinions of education experts in New York State who have been grouped into eight focus panels and who will be interviewed extensively this summer. 
Using these expert opinions on issues ranging from optimum class sizes to the number of school aides and support personnel needed, the researchers will then calculate the cost of providing each component of a sound education and ultimately issue a conclusion on how much should be spent per student. 
As complex as such a study can be, it may be simple in comparison to the process to achieve consensus among politicians in Albany.
Mr. Wayland said he hoped Mr. Pataki and state lawmakers would show leadership.
Although the Court of Appeals ordered the state to reconfigure school financing only as it pertains to New York City, Mr. Sanders and other officials said it would be impossible to reach a solution without reworking the financing scheme for the entire state. 
"The only fair way to proceed, and the only way to proceed that will have broad enough political support to reach consensus, is that the state aid formula has to be made fair for all the districts in the state," Mr. Sanders said. "To do otherwise would invite dozens of new lawsuits." 
A study by the city's Independent Budget Office last year suggested that the state might have to give the city an additional $3.3 billion a year in education aid for the city to have an equitable share as compared with the rest of the state's school districts. 
One way to comply with the court's decision, officials said, would be to simply increase the total amount of education spending in the state's $93 billion annual budget, but that is far easier said than done given the weak economy. 
New York City officials, including Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, said they were less concerned with where the money would come from than with the broader implications for the city's public schools -- the prospect of smaller class sizes and better-trained teachers, new textbooks and computers. 
While the court's ruling left open the possibility that the city could be forced to spend more of its own money on education, Mr. Bloomberg said, "There are no doubts in my mind that we will be able to make a convincing case to Albany over the next year that they should be helping us." 
Eva S. Moskowitz, the chairwoman of the City Council's education committee, said the extra money would be best used to offer incentive pay to recruit teachers in subject areas like math where there are teacher shortages; to build and repair school buildings; and for arts instruction. "Every school needs to have an art room," she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); CHILDREN (73%); LITIGATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



698 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1812 words

HEADLINE: Pitting Fuel Economy Against Safety 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 27 

 BODY:
For years, automakers have cited studies contending that thousands of people die annually because fuel economy regulations force the companies to make cars that are not heavy enough.
 Larger vehicles, the argument goes, may guzzle more gas but they offer more protection, whether one hits a tree or another car. The argument has been a central one when efforts emerge in Congress to raise fuel economy standards. And it is taken seriously by the Bush administration, which has started an effort to rewrite the fuel economy rules. 
 The problem with this argument is that it now has little relationship to the American road. As safety advocates point out, the lightest cars have virtually disappeared from American roads over the last 15 years, while the largest vehicles -- including sport utilities and pickups -- have ballooned, both in number and heft. 
The portion of cars that weigh 2,500 pounds or less, which was 18 percent of all passenger vehicles sold in the 1985 model year, has fallen to less than half a percentage point, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. In fact, the average American car has been steadily gaining weight for a decade and a half.
Over the same period, the growth of the largest vehicles has only expanded weight differences that are widely acknowledged to be deadly in collisions. Moreover, the largest vehicles are increasingly not cars but sport utilities and pickups, which ride much higher than cars, increasing the danger to people in cars and the likelihood of deadly rollovers.
When the government created fuel economy regulations after the energy crisis of the early 1970's, few imagined they would become a flashpoint because of an entirely different issue -- safety. But the official the Bush administration has chosen to preside over the effort to rewrite the rules, John D. Graham, says saving lives is as important as saving gasoline.
Dr. Graham, the regulations administrator of the Office of Management and Budget, has argued since his years as a Harvard professor and risk expert that fuel regulations have cost thousands of American lives because cars were made too light -- in Detroit, the phenomenon is called downsizing. Auto lobbyists have cited Dr. Graham's work, and other research, in opposing tighter fuel standards. 
Now Dr. Graham is chairman of an intra-agency group rethinking the fundamental structure of corporate average fuel economy regulations, or CAFE standards, for light trucks -- sport utility vehicles, pickups and minivans -- for the 2008 model year and beyond. The group also includes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, whose chief, Jeffrey W. Runge, will play a central role; the Energy Department; and the E.P.A.
Dr. Graham said in an e-mail exchange that the administration's intention was "to stimulate more fuel-saving, technological innovation while protecting safety and American jobs."
He said he did not want to press automakers to make most light trucks lighter. "CAFE reform does not make sense if it forces consumers to purchase vehicles that are lighter or smaller than they need," Dr. Graham said.
But he also said, somewhat surprisingly, that there were problems with vehicles that are too heavy: "A downsizing of the heaviest light trucks could be a net positive."
He said the country would be better served by less diversity in vehicles, in terms of weight and size. In effect, he is playing to both sides of the debate, arguing that bigger is better -- but that too big is not better.
Now he faces the difficult task of selling his ideas.
"The curious thing about the administration's effort on this proposal is that it is opposed by all of the major stakeholders, by the U.A.W., the environmental groups and by the major automakers," said Alan V. Reuther, the top lobbyist of the United Automobile Workers union.
The union fears that domestic automakers will abandon production of smaller cars under a Bush plan and focus on their profit center: sport utility vehicles and pickups.
Automakers expressed a range of views, but always concern. 
"What the auto industry and other industries support about Dr. Graham is that he does strive to base decisions on sound data and sound science, and that's a mantra of business," said Gloria Bergquist, spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the industry's main lobbying group.
"But when he's starting to take on changes to CAFE, it makes us nervous because it's very complicated and it's something that we've wrestled with for 30 years."
The notion of Dr. Graham's presiding over the debate is anathema to environmentalists, who doubt thatconserving gasoline will be a priority, and safety groups, who do not trust him because the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis, which he founded, was partly financed by automakers.
"It's clear he's doing this on behalf of the auto industry," said Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy group and a critic of Dr. Graham. 
She said the effort should be led by the agency she once ran, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. "That's why they create these agencies," she said.
Dr. Runge, the traffic agency's current administrator, has a leading role because his agency actually writes the regulations, though Dr. Graham has used his power in the budget office before to reject a tire pressure regulation proposed by the traffic agency. 
The two men seem closer to the same page on the weight debate. Dr. Runge called Dr. Graham "a very valuable player in helping the administration navigate through this thorny issue."
"This is very important to the future of the country," he added. "It may seem arcane outside of Washington, D.C., but it affects everybody in our nation."
Fuel regulations are so strewn with loopholes that several auto lobbyists said they preferred "the devil we know."
Today, each automaker's fleet of passenger cars is required to average 27.5 miles per gallon. Light trucks are required to average 20.7 miles per gallon. The Bush administration has already raised that figure, to 22.2 by the 2007 model year.
But the system allows automakers to assume their vehicles are about 18 percent more fuel-efficient than they actually are. They also get special credits for making some vehicles that can substitute ethanol for gas even though few customers realize they have such an ability. 
The largest sport utilities and pickups, those with a weight greater than three tons, are not even part of the regulatory system. That means automakers do not have to count many Hummers, Toyota Land Cruisers or Lincoln Navigators, to name a few. 
Perhaps the ultimate quirk is that regulations meant to save gasoline led the auto industry to dump the station wagon, because it qualifies as a car, and create new classes of family haulers, like sport utilities, that qualify as light trucks. As a result, the fuel economy of the average new passenger vehicle is at its lowest point in 22 years.
But many automakers and their allies have long argued, and continue to argue, that saving gasoline kills.
Tough regulations would "exchange body bags for oil barrels," Jerry Curry, the top auto regulator during the first Bush administration, said in 1990. In 1999, Michigan's senators, Carl Levin and Spencer Abraham -- Mr. Abraham is now the energy secretary -- wrote to colleagues that higher CAFE standards would equal more vehicle deaths because cars would be made too light.
Last year, to ward off another attempt to raise fuel standards, the industry ran advertisements suggesting farmers would be forced to haul hay with subcompacts and warning: "Fuel economy is important. Safety is vital." Trent Lott held up a picture of a tiny European Smart car on the Senate floor -- it was purple -- to warn that Americans would be forced to drive such Lilliputians.
Sam Kazman, general counsel for the Competitive Enterprise Institute, which has sued the government to halt even small regulatory increases, said in a recent statement that fuel regulation "kills thousands of people each year by forcing vehicles to be downsized and therefore less crashworthy."
But Clarence M. Ditlow, director of the Center for Auto Safety, said Mr. Kazman "has no argument on small cars because the small cars have gotten bigger."
"When you look at today's fleet, manufacturers have not met the regulations by making small cars," he added, but by improving technology.
Mr. Ditlow argues that safety problems could be alleviated -- and gasoline saved -- if the separate standard for light trucks were scrapped. But the industry has blocked several efforts to do so.
On average, cars have been gaining weight for a decade and a half, to 3,408 pounds today from 3,013 pounds in 1987. Some additional weight has come from new safety systems like air bags. Car weights have consolidated at 3,000 to 4,000 pounds -- a trend that on its own would help safety because cars are more alike in terms of weight than they were 30 years ago.
If the lightest cars have vanished, so have the behemoths of Motor City's last heyday -- the two-and-a-half-ton Lincolns and the battleship station wagons. Even after bulking up in recent years, passenger cars are below the 4,071-pound average of 1975.
Large cars have been supplanted by light trucks, which have grown to more than half of sales today from a fifth in 1980. Sport utilities and pickups are gaining faster than cars, to 4,569 pounds today from a low of 3,840 in 1987, increasing the weight disparity on the roads.
The industry's arguments were bolstered by a 2001 National Academy of Sciences report, which said that cars being made too light caused 1,300 to 2,600 deaths in 1993.
But the finding drew dissent from two of the academy's panelists, and Charles Lave, an economics professor at the University of California at Irvine who was a primary architect of the finding, said much had changed since 1993. 
"It's a description of the past," he said. "You can get a 20 to 40 percent improvement in fuel economy without decreasing weight. You don't have to decrease performance either. The technology exists to do it."
"There's no reason you should get an increase of deaths," he added. 
The administration is likely to submit several ideas for public comment this summer, mostly variations on a system that would mandate light truck fuel efficiency in terms of weight or size classes instead of a single mileage target, several people who ae close to the deliberations said.
Environmental groups say such a system will nullify fuel economy gains. The administration, however, is considering bringing Hummers and Land Cruisers into the regulatory system and effectively creating a heavyweight class like one suggested in the National Academy's report, with a somewhat demanding mileage target to stem further auto obesity.
"My intention is to seek wide public comment on this topic to the point of public meetings," Dr. Runge said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Federal officials have made an issue of weight disparity in vehicles as they have reconsidered fuel economy rules. Pickups like the Silverado, the top-selling vehicle for G.M., are among the heaviest vehicles on the road. (Associated Press)(pg. C14) Chart: "Gaining Weight Again"After fuel economy standards were put into effect in the early 1970's, sales of the heaviest vehicles fell significantly and those of the lightest vehicles rose. Since the mid-1980's, though, sales of heavier vehicles -- primarily sport utilities -- have risen while sales of the lightest types of cars have shrunk to a minuscule amount. 2003 Ford Expedition1992 Honda Accord Wagon Graph tracks light vehicle market share by vehicle type and by vehicle weights since 1975. (Source: Environmental Protection Agency)(pg. C1) Chart: "Heavy Hitters"Over the last decade, heavier vehicles have come to dominate the list of the top sellers. In some cases, vehicles that continued to sell well through the years increased in size. Top-selling light vehicles 1992 Ford F-SeriesVEHICLES SOLD: 470,788 Chevy PickupVEHICLES SOLD: 428,188 Ford TaurusVEHICLES SOLD: 409,751 Honda AccordVEHICLES SOLD: 393,477 Ford ExplorerVEHICLES SOLD: 306,681 Toyota CamryVEHICLES SOLD: 286,602 Dodge CaravanVEHICLES SOLD: 251,921 Ford RangerVEHICLES SOLD: 247,777 Ford EscortVEHICLES SOLD: 236,622 Honda CivicVEHICLES SOLD: 219,228 2002 Ford F-SeriesVEHICLES SOLD: 813,701 Chevy SilveradoVEHICLES SOLD: 652,646 Toyota CamryVEHICLES SOLD: 434,145 Ford ExplorerVEHICLES SOLD: 433,847 Honda AccordVEHICLES SOLD: 398,980 Dodge Ram PickupVEHICLES SOLD: 396,934 Ford TaurusVEHICLES SOLD: 332,690 Honda CivicVEHICLES SOLD: 313,159 Chevy TrailBlazerVEHICLES SOLD: 249,568 Dodge CaravanVEHICLES SOLD: 244,911 Chart tracks vehicle weight* (3,500 lbs. or less 3,501 lbs. or more) *Based on the lightest version of each model tested by the E.P.A. (Sources: Wards AutoInfoBank; Environmental Protection Agency)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); TRENDS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES; GAS (FUEL) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



699 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Medicare Legislation Goes To Conference Committee
Congressional leaders rejoiced over the passage of legislation to help elderly people purchase prescription drugs, but they said they would need weeks and perhaps months to work out differences between the two versions approved by the Senate and the House.
 The task of achieving a compromise was complicated by an extremely close vote in the House, where conservatives said they feared that Medicare costs might explode with the addition of new drug benefits. Page A1. 

Republicans, including Senator Bill Frist, above, of Tennessee, the Republican leader, have pushed through the biggest overhaul of Medicare, which has always been a signature Democratic program and the proud legacy of President Lyndon Johnson's Great Society. News Analysis. A1.

Do-Not-Call Registry Overwhelmed
People eager to block telemarketing calls overwhelmed a government Web site that began accepting phone numbers for a national do-not-call registry. C2.

A Thriving Caribbean Community
New York City's Caribbean community has thrived in the job market and in the housing market, while working at relatively low-paying jobs, an analysis of new data from the 2000 census shows. A1.

Roslyn Bancorp Sold for $1.6 Billion
New York Community Bancorp plans to buy Roslyn Bancorp for $1.6 billion in stock, forming one of the largest savings and loan associations in the New York area. C2.

Four Traders Are Found Guilty
Four executives of Evergreen International Spot Trading, which was located in the World Trade Center, were found guilty of cheating investors out of more than $100 million in a scheme that surfaced soon after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. C4.

Bank of Japan Chief Makes Changes
Toshihiko Fukui, who became the Bank of Japan's 29th governor 100 days ago, has eased monetary policy, mended the relationship with the Koizumi government and raised hopes that the bank and the government can jointly tackle Japan's sagging economy. C3.

Market Gauges Fall on Profit Taking
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and Dow Jones industrial average ended a four-week winning streak as investors cashed in profits. The S.& P. 500 fell 9.60 points, or 1 percent, to 976.22, while the Dow declined 89.99 points, or 1 percent, to 8,989.05. The Nasdaq composite index lost 8.75 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,625.26. C4.

Lockheed Forms a Technology Unit
Lockheed Martin plans to form a business unit to focus on technology integration. C4.

Tim Waterstone Bids for Hamleys
The British bookstore owner Tim Waterstone entered the bidding war for Hamleys, a leading operator of toy stores, with an offer of 230 pence a share. C3.

Spending and Incomes Rose in May
Consumer spending rose 0.1 percent in May and incomes increased 0.3 percent, the Commerce Department said. C2.

I.R.S. Reviewing Fuel Tax Credits
The Internal Revenue Service said it was reviewing procedures used by coal processors to qualify for synthetic-fuel tax credits and may withdraw credits for operations that fail to meet federal standards. C14.

United's Parent Reports a Profit
The UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, reported net income of $64 million for May, helped by $300 million in federal aid for costs related to the Iraq war. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,989.05 down 89.99Nasdaq composite -- 1,625.26 down 8.7510-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.58% up 0.04The euro -- $1.1428 down 0.0001The dollar -- 119.65 yen up 0.29 Graph tracks the daily closings of Standard & Poor's 500 since January 2003. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); MEDICARE (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DO NOT CALL LISTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TELEMARKETING (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); TELEMARKETING REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (79%); SENIOR CITIZENS (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); WEB SITES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); CENSUS (68%); SAVINGS & LOANS (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); MONETARY POLICY (63%); TERRORISM (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); CONSUMER SPENDING (61%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (61%); BOOKSTORES (60%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NEW YORK COMMUNITY BANCORP INC (93%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY & COMMON MARKET (83%)

TICKER: NYCB (NYSE) (93%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); LMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



700 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGES; 
Dollars Are Driving A.C.C. Dispute

BYLINE:  By BILL FINLEY

 BODY:
The conflict between the Big East and Atlantic Coast Conferences has been more difficult to follow than a game of three-card monte, and has often been just as unseemly. Who is in and who is out? Who is going where? And which colleges, exactly, are the plaintiffs and which are the defendants in a lawsuit filed to halt the A.C.C.'s expansion?
 The answers seem to change almost daily. 
 Donna E. Shalala, president of the University of Miami, yesterday remained undecided about whether to accept the A.C.C.'s invitation. The presidents of Syracuse and B.C. contacted Shalala and told her that they were "deeply desirous of getting the Big East Conference reconstituted" and asked her to examine a new proposal by the Big East. On Thursday, she made a surprising announcement that she was considering a counterproposal from the Big East. 
Meanwhile, Virginia Tech last night received a formal invitation from the A.C.C. and will accept, the university president Charles M. Steger, said in an open letter to the alumni. The A.C.C. unexpectedly invited Virginia Tech into the conference this week after courting Syracuse and Boston College.
But cutting through the confusion, the maneuvering can be summed up very simply: It is about money, and particularly about football money.
"It's ludicrous for anybody to say this isn't about the money," said Mark Ganis, president of SportsCorp Ltd., an industry consulting firm. "It's so inaccurate that it offends the sensibilities. Any thinking person understands this is about big dollars in major collegiate athletic programs. Why say it isn't?" 
The biggest dollars are reserved for football.
"Football is what drives the college sports train," said Tim DeSchriver, assistant professor of sports marketing at the University of Massachusetts.
And it is the Bowl Championship Series that drives college football. 
The B.C.S., formed in 1998, is an alliance of four major bowls, the Rose, Fiesta, Orange and Sugar, and six conferences,the Big East, A.C.C., Pacific-10, Big Ten, Southeastern and Big 12, intended to produce a season-ending national championship game.
The winners of each of the six conferences qualify for one of the B.C.S. bowl games. There are five other conferences (Western Athletic, Mountain West, Conference USA, Mid-American, Sunbelt) that play Division I-A football. A college from one of those conferences can advance to a B.C.S. bowl by winning one of two at-large bids, but this has never happened.
B.C.S. revenue from the 2002-3 season was $114 million. More than $109 million of that total was distributed to the six member conferences and their universities. The remainder was divided among 13 other conferences.
The A.C.C., which received a B.C.S. payout of more than $16.5 million last year, was founded in 1953 with seven members. Over the years, it has carved out a niche as a basketball conference, one of the best in the country. It has never been able to scale the same heights in football, despite adding Florida State, a perennial football power, in 1992. 
By attracting two major football programs to the conference, the A.C.C. would be in a better position to receive an additional $4.7 million, the value of placing a second team -- in addition to Florida State -- in a B.C.S. bowl game.
And there are other revenue possibilities for the A.C.C. The B.C.S. television contract expires after the 2006 bowl games, and if a weakened Big East is not included in the B.C.S., and no other conference is added to the alliance, the A.C.C. could gain another $4 million or $5 million.
"Losing Miami and Virginia Tech is a big problem for them," DeSchriver said of the Big East.
The A.C.C. can also negotiate a bigger television contract with Miami, the five-time national champion, as a draw. Television revenue was the likely reason the A.C.C. courted Boston College, which would have attracted viewers in New England. 
It appears that the A.C.C. may soon be in a position to stage a conference championship game, a goal of an earlier plan to expand to 12 teams by adding Miami, Syracuse and Boston College. Under N.C.A.A. rules, a conference must have at least 12 teams to hold a football championship game. The 2003 Southeastern Conference championship generated $12.4 million in revenue. Adding just two universities would leave the A.C.C. one short, leading to speculation that the conference's recruiting is not over.
By contrast, the N.C.A.A. tournament, the big money-maker in men's college basketball, puts relatively little into the pockets of the competing universities. Most of the profit is kept by the N.C.A.A., which in 2003 awarded teams $100,671 for each victory in the tournament.
The B.C.S. system is starting to affect other sports. A program that does not receive B.C.S. revenue is likely to have a smaller athletic budget, which could mean inferior facilities, smaller salaries for coaches and skimpier recruiting budgets, factors that make it harder to compete. It may be no coincidence that in three of the last four years, 14 of the 16 teams in the Round of 16 in the N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament were from B.C.S. affiliates.
Dean Bonham, the chairman and chief executive of the Bonham Group, a sports marketing agency that advised the A.C.C. on expansion, insisted money is not the driving issue.
"The assumption is that this whole deal is driven by economics and that there is a financial windfall for each of these schools," Bonham said. "That is not the case. The real issue is the changing landscape of collegiate athletics and how can the A.C.C. be positioned to affect positive change."
But even Bonham conceded that college sports is about more than fun and games. "The reality is that it is big business," he said. "That's nothing to be ashamed of."
And it is football -- and football money -- that opens every door imaginable. 
"A conference like ours is looking for greater access to the B.C.S. bowls and maybe some additional revenue," said Karl Benson, commissioner of the Western Athletic Conference, which is not a member of the B.C.S. "The revenue disparity is something we may never be able to make up, but, from a recruiting standpoint, there are those conferences who are different from the rest of us, and that hurts us."
Although the A.C.C. seems to have closed the expansion door for now with the addition of Virginia Tech and the probable addition of Miami, the aftershocks of its move will go on for some time. Will the Big East replace the one or two members about to depart? How will officials at Boston College and Syracuse deal with being sideswiped by the A.C.C.?
And, as Duke's basketball coach, Mike Krzyzewski, suggested, will the A.C.C. be able to mend fences after what has been one of the nastiest fights in college sports history? Many feel this has been an embarrassing time for college sports.
"I'm concerned about what all these various machinations say about all of us, and not just schools in the Big East or A.C.C.," Seton Hall Athletic Director Jeff Fogelson said. "I mean that in terms of what we're really supposed to be all about. Every day there is some other corporate maneuver and it does not put us in the best of light." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); SPORTS BUSINESS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (83%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%); BIG EAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



701 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: In Brooklyn Woman's Path, A Story of Caribbean Striving 

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
It all began in the Glamor Girl lingerie factory back in Trinidad, where friendships formed amid the ceaseless procession of nighties and negligees. A young checker, Beulah Reid, began dreaming of a house of her own. And a web of personal connections wove itself around her.
 It was a friend from the factory who invited Mrs. Reid to the United States a decade later. Another helped her find a furnished room in Brooklyn for $18 a week. Another helped her move up from housekeeping jobs into a clerk's job at Bankers Trust, where she then worked for 18 years. 
 Meanwhile, she raised three children; earned a general equivalency diploma; became a nurse's aide and worked as one on weekends; studied real estate; and, when her Bankers Trust job ended in 1991, became a licensed day care provider. 
Along the way, she bought her long-dreamed-of house.
"I can't tell you when I last didn't work seven days a week," saidMrs. Reid, a statuesque 62-year-old woman, during a recent conversation in the immaculate dining room of her East Flatbush home. The statement is neither boastful nor self-pitying, but simply a matter of fact.
Beulah Reid's story is in many ways the story of New York City's Caribbean community, a group that has grown over the last decade to become one-fourth of the city's black population. Disproportionately female, West Indian New Yorkers have thrived in the job and housing markets, even while working in relatively low-paying jobs.
Women make up 57 percent of the city's Caribbean population, an analysis of new data from the 2000 census shows. There is a much higher rate of female labor force participation among West Indians than in the city at large, and they are more likely to be working full time.
Though Caribbean New Yorkers have lower median earnings than African immigrants and African-Americans, they are less likely to be living in poverty, the data show. They are more likely to live in owner-occupied housing and in single-family homes. And the average value of the homes is relatively high.
The percentage of households headed by women is higher for West Indians than for Africans and is not far below that for African-Americans, but in those West Indian households there are more people working. Among those groups, West Indians have the highest percentage of families headed by women with two and three workers, and the lowest percentage with none.
Many New Yorkers, especially those who have spent time in a hospital or contemplated hiring a domestic worker, have probably sensed what the data illuminate in detail: In the successes of the city's West Indian population and in the economic vitality of neighborhoods like Mrs. Reid's, women play a pivotal role.
"That epitomizes the Caribbean community," said Basil Wilson, the Jamaican-born son of a linotypist and a secretary, who is provost of John Jay College of Criminal Justice. He called Mrs. Reid a pioneer, saying, "She came before her husband, she moved up, then found her niche.
"It gives us an insight into our society. It tells us about how a particular gender found ways to navigate the turbulent waters of New York City. Often people know these stories on a one-to-one basis or anecdotally, but they don't understand it in toto."
The society in which Mrs. Reid grew up was one in which women worked. Her grandmother, who raised her, was a cook who worked into her 80's. "Nothing comes easy, Patsy," she would tell her granddaughter, using a pet name. "You've got to work to get whatever you want."
What Mrs. Reid wanted, like many West Indians, was to own a home. The original vision was simple: something free-standing with a yard. In her late teens, working at the factory, she married and started a family. She set about, as she recently put it, "achieving a home."
At first, she and her husband could not find the right spot. Then the price was too high. So when her friend from Glamor Girl invited her to the United States in 1971, Mrs. Reid left her two school-age children in Trinidad with her husband and his mother. They would join her later.
"I had to come and establish myself here and get permanent," she said. "I wouldn't want to bring them in and they weren't permanent. Because if you're not permanent, it would be hard for schooling. In those days, I think they were checking on people and sending them back. I didn't want to go underground."
Caribbean immigration to the United States has been heavily female at least since the mid-1960's. That is not the case with all immigrant groups. While the census data show that 61 percent of all foreign-born Filipinos in New York City are women, 61 percent of foreign-born Mexicans in the city are men.
The predominance of women in Caribbean immigration can be traced in part to the pull of professions like nursing and domestic service, and to the networks of women who fill that niche. Some sociologists say that West Indian women also enjoy the change in roles and the independence that they experience with migration.
West Indian men are "fairly patriarchal, quite frankly," said Milton Vickerman, a sociologist at the University of Virginia who specializes in race and immigration. "So you can see how that would lead to problems. Why would a woman, having been independent for a few years, want to go back to that?"
When Mrs. Reid arrived here, she moved in with a great-uncle in Brooklyn. Then, wanting greater freedom, she moved to a furnished room with a shared bathroom and kitchen. Through a friend, she found a job as a live-in housekeeper in Saddle River, N.J., working for a family that had agreed to sponsor her for permanent residency.
The pay was $60 a week, $18 of which she spent for the furnished room in Brooklyn she returned to on weekends. Her immigration lawyer took another chunk. Most of the remainder went back to Trinidad for her children, minus the cost of some winter clothing and necessities.
After two years, she moved on, in search of better money. She would report weekdays at 8 to a domestic employment agency in Harlem and wait to be sent out on jobs. The pay was $12 a half day, $25 a full day.
Next came Bankers Trust, where she started at $98 a week and worked up to $600. Her husband and teenage son joined her from Trinidad, then her daughter, who was younger. She and her husband separated and he later died. With her daughter and a third child, she moved to a two-bedroom apartment in Crown Heights.
"I wouldn't say it was hard," Mrs. Reid said. "Money was small, but the rent was cheap. And I knew it was a sacrifice I was making for one day to have my family with me and life would be better. So I went along with it."
This spring, the United States Census Bureau released data on income, occupation, education and other details about the population. For the first time, the bureau created ancestry groups for each race and tabulated the data according to those groups.
"This is the first time the Census Bureau has compiled and reported data themselves on these groups," said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College who analyzed the data for The Times. "It gives us the first look at the differential situation among the ancestry groups of African-Americans."
The data show that 63.8 percent of West Indian women age 16 and over in New York City were in the workforce at the time the census was taken. The figure for New York City women in general was 51.9 percent; the figures for Africans and African-Americans were 59.6 percent and 51.6 percent respectively.
The median earnings of West Indian women working full time were $29,791 -- less than the median for African-Americans and African immigrants. But West Indian households were more likely than the two other groups to have not just two, but three people working.
Apparently at least in part for that reason, the median household income for West Indians was $38,635 -- higher than the $27,358 median for African-Americans and the $36,111 median for Africans -- and a smaller percentage of West Indians were living below the poverty line.
Professor Beveridge's analysis showed that nearly 34 percent of West Indian homes were owner-occupied, compared with 24.6 percent of black households in general. More than 40 percent of West Indians were living in single-family or two-unit housing, compared with less than 30 percent of all New Yorkers.
"For West Indians, owning a house is sort of like the epitome of having made it," Professor Vickerman said. As Dr. Wilson put it, "The notion of living in a huge apartment building is quite alien to the Caribbean community. So what one really seeks is to acquire one's castle."
Mrs. Reid's castle, as she imagined it, would be a single-family house in a racially mixed neighborhood. She decided against looking in Queens because she did not have a car. She wanted her house to be detached, with three bedrooms, "a beautiful living room, a nice kitchen" and a formal dining room.
"I just like beautiful and luxurious things," she explained. "That's just me."
At first, the prices were right but interest rates were too high. Then the interest rates dropped but prices went up. Her real estate broker (who Mrs. Reid discovered had sold her husband their first television set back in Trinidad) began to ask, "Beulah, how much longer are you going to look?"
So in 1987 Mrs. Reid bought her house, on a leafy street in East Flatbush. It was a two-family house, but her daughter and her family could live downstairs and help with the mortgage. The house was not detached, but it was on a corner, and though the dining room was not formal it was close enough.
Mrs. Reid used her annual profit-sharing money from her banking job, which she had kept in a savings account, for the $35,000 down payment. One of her children helped out by giving her $7,000 that had been saved to buy a first car.
These days, Mrs. Reid runs a child care center in her home from 7 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. and works as a home health aide on weekends. She is a grandmother of four, on the board of her local civic association, a past president of the Clinton Hill Lions Club, and an assistant secretary of her church.
And her Glamor Girl friends? How many is she still in touch with?
"Barbara, Sheila, Janet, Daphne," Mrs. Reid murmured to herself, counting first on one hand, then the other. "Another Daphne, Monica, Olive. Who else did I forget? Wallace, Lynette, Audrey. . . ."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Beulah Reid, who came to New York City from Trinidad 32 years ago, with 4-year-old Austin Sandy, one of her charges at the day care center she runs in her home in East Flatbush. She bought the house in 1987. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B2) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: A Recipe for Economic Vitality"Despite generally lower-paying jobs, Caribbean households in New York City earn more than other groups. Although Caribbean workers have lower median wages . . . MEDIAN EARNINGS FOR WORKERS AGE 16 AND OLDERCitywide median: $35,696African-born: 31,521Other black: 31,406Caribbean-born: 30,921 . . . their households tend to earn more . . . MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOMECaribbean-born: $38,635Citywide median: 38,293African-born: 36,111Other black: 27,358 . . . because many Caribbean households have more workers. PERCENTAGE OF HOUSEHOLDS WITH TWO OR MORE WORKERSCaribbean-born: 54.0%African-born: 50.2Citywide median: 47.1Other black: 35.7 (Source: U.S. Census Bureau data analyzed by the Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LINGERIE MFG (90%); LINGERIE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); WOMEN (87%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); CHILDREN (75%); FAMILY (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); NURSES & NURSING (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); HOME PRICES (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); CENSUS (67%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY & COMMON MARKET (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



702 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Canada: Economy Shrinks 

BYLINE:  By Bernard Simon (NYT)

 BODY:
 Canada's economy contracted in April for the first time since late 2001, Statistics Canada said. 
Gross domestic product dropped 0.2 percent, adjusted for inflation, after being unchanged in March. The growth rate for the year to April was 1.8 percent. Manufacturing and oil and gas exploration were among the weakest sectors. Hotels and restaurants were hit hard by the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, in Toronto. In recent years, Canada has posted the strongest growth among major industrial countries. But the slowdown in the United States and a sharp appreciation of the Canadian dollar have put a brake on the economy. Bernard Simon (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); STATISTICS (88%); TRENDS (88%); SARS (86%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (86%); RESTAURANTS (84%); OIL EXPLORATION (55%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (55%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CANADA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (74%) ONTARIO, CANADA (74%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



703 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
NESTLE TO SPEND $150 MILLION TO REORGANIZE DREYER'S

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 Nestle plans to spend $150 million this year and in 2004 to cut jobs and combine factories at its ice cream business in the United States after buying Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream Inc. for $2.8 billion. The changes, which also include $47 million in asset write-downs and charges for combining the companies' delivery networks, will produce savings of $185 million annually by 2006, the chief financial officer, Wolfgang Reichenberger, said on a conference call. Nestle, the maker of Haagen-Dazs, and Dreyer's will control about a fifth of the $21 billion ice cream market in the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (92%); FOOD MFG (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (88%); LAYOFFS (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); EXECUTIVES (53%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: DREYER'S GRAND ICE CREAM INC (91%); NESTLE SA (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NESTLE SA 

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (91%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (90%) SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS; SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



704 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: $1.6 Billion Deal Creates Area's 2nd-Biggest S.&L. 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
The New York Community Bancorp said yesterday that it was buying the Roslyn Bancorp for $1.6 billion in stock, forming one of the largest savings and loan associations in the New York area.
 Analysts said that low interest rates were making it difficult for banks and savings and loans to increase their profits, so more mergers might be in the offing. 
 "In this particular instance, my opinion is that Roslyn Bancorp was running straight into an earnings wall," said James M. Ackor, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets. 
Facing similar circumstances, Mr. Ackor said, executives throughout the industry may "consider selling their banks rather than face the consequences of earnings disappointments and lower stock prices."
Joseph R. Ficalora, the chief executive of New York Community, based in Westbury, N.Y., said in a statement that the combined companies offered good prospects "to grow earnings and market share."
Another problem for financial institutions has been a large inflow of money from the stock market into less risky investments like savings accounts and certificates of deposit. The banks typically invest 65 percent of their money in loans and 35 percent in securities, which fluctuate with the markets and are regarded as more risky. 
But, unable to make loans as fast as the money has been pouring in, many banks have sharply increased their investments in securities, mainly those backed by mortgages. Mr. Ackor said Roslyn had shifted 68 percent of its investments into securities.
One of the first steps taken by the new company, Mr. Ficalora said, would be to sell $3.5 billion in securities or, by analysts' estimates, about half of Roslyn's securities portfolio. Kevin T. Timmons, an analyst at C. L. King & Associates in Albany, said he expected the proceeds to be invested in loans on apartment buildings. They are less risky, and, he said, have been a specialty of New York Community.
The enlarged New York Community will have $9.8 billion in deposits and rank second among savings and loans in the region, behind Astoria Financial with $10.8 billion in assets. It will have 115 offices, mainly in Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island and two Long Island counties, Nassau and Suffolk; of that total, 31 were operated by Roslyn.
Previously, Roslyn had ranked eighth among the savings and loans in the region with $5.19 billion in deposits, and New York Community had ranked ninth with $4.65 billion in deposits.
The savings and loans compete in the region with two international banks, which have much larger deposits: J. P. Morgan Chase with $20.28 billion and Citigroup with $16.95 billion. Worldwide, Citigroup has $1.1 trillion in deposits; J. P. Morgan Chase has $755 billion.
Stakeholders of Roslyn Bancorp will receive 0.75 of a New York Community common share for each of their shares. The deal is based on New York Community's closing price on Thursday of $27.10, the companies said. The stock closed yesterday at $29.08.
Mr. Ficalora will remain as chief executive. Joseph L. Mancino, who had been the chief executive of Roslyn Bancorp, based in Roslyn, N.Y., will become co-chairman of the combined company along with Michael F. Manzulli, who had been the chairman of New York Community.
Raising a concern about the acquisition, Mr. Timmons noted that Roslyn had been carrying about $458 million in loans on relatively risky construction projects.
"New York Community has done two other big deals that proved very positive for shareholders," he said. "This deal has some risk that the other two didn't." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (67%); MARKET SHARE (57%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 

COMPANY: NEW YORK COMMUNITY BANCORP INC (93%); CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP INC (91%); NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (57%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (57%); C L KING & ASSOCIATES INC (53%); ASTORIA FINANCIAL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COMMUNITY BANCORP INC (NYB); ROSLYN BANCORP INC (RSLN) 

TICKER: NYCB (NYSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AF (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (93%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%) SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



705 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1650 words

HEADLINE: Calculating The Irrational In Economics 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN J. DUBNER

 BODY:
When the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston invited the leading behavioral economists to a Cape Cod golf resort this month to make their case, it was plainly a signal moment. "It has the feeling of being summoned by the king," said Colin F. Camerer, a star behaviorist who teaches at the California Institute of Technology. "Sort of like: 'I understand you're the finest lute player in the region. Will you come and play for me?' "
 Until the last few years, behavioral economics -- which blends psychology, economics and, increasingly, neuroscience to argue that emotion plays a huge role in how people make economic decisions -- was an extremely tight-knit group. It had little influence and few practitioners. One economist at the bank's conference recalled an Alaska kayaking trip that Mr. Camerer took with another prominent behaviorist a decade ago. "If that kayak had flipped," he said, "half the field would have been eradicated." 
 But the field has grown, as has its influence. In 1996, Alan Greenspan's warning of "irrational exuberance" acknowledged, as the behaviorists do, that the average investor is hardly the superrational "homo economicus" that mainstream economists depict. In 2001, the young behaviorist Matthew Rabin won the John Bates Clark Medal; last fall, the psychologist Daniel Kahneman, a forefather of behavioral economics, was awarded the Nobel in economic science. 
And so it was that the Boston Fed summoned the behaviorists to the Wequassett Inn in Chatham, Mass. The conference was given the quaint title "How Humans Behave," as if monetary policymakers had suddenly realized that, lo and behold, on the other end of all that policy are actual people. The collection of mainstream economists and central bankers would be the highest-level audience the behaviorists had ever enjoyed, the best chance yet for their new thinking to hit the bloodstream. 
From the outset the mood was civil, especially considering that the behaviorists are essentially calling for an end to economics as we know it. (As one economist grumbled, "What you have to understand is that behavioral economics is attacking the foundation of what welfare economics is built on.") So it was not surprising that some Fed elders seemed wary, as if they were at a family reunion and welcoming a distant cousin about whom they had heard only puzzling rumors. But with the economy stuck in a condition between dismal and desperate, the behaviorists' timing could not have been better.
"All our models and forecasts say we'll see a better second half," Cathy E. Minehan, president of the Boston Fed, said in her opening address. "But we said that last year. Now don't get me wrong: mathematical models are wonderful tools. But are there ways this process can be done better? Can we inform the policymaker from 50,000 feet with wisdom gained on the ground, in the human brain, or in the way humans make decisions and organize themselves? I hope so."
Ms. Minehan and her colleagues were particularly hoping to learn why Americans save too little, acquire too much expensive debt and perform such achingly self-destructive feats of portfolio management. The behaviorists, for their part, were put in a tight spot: eager to prove themselves but leery of overpromising. "Virtually everyone doing behavioral economics agrees we should go slowly in advocating policy change," Mr. Camerer wrote in the paper he presented. "Our thinking was also not designed to precisely answer questions about welfare and policy, but this is a good time in the intellectual history of the field to say something."
Eldar Shafir, who teaches psychology and public affairs at Princeton, began with a behavioral economics primer. It was full of the anomalies the field is known for, including the popular "6 jam-vs.-24 jam" experiment. In an upscale grocery story, researchers set up a tasting booth first with 6 jars of jams, and later with 24 jars. In the first case, 40 percent of the customers stopped to taste and 30 percent bought; in the second, 60 percent tasted but only 3 percent bought. The point is that too many options can flummox a consumer -- and if 24 jars of jam pose a problem, imagine what 8,000 mutual funds can do. Standard economics would argue that people are better off with more options. But behavioral economics argues that people behave less like mathematical models than like -- well, people.
Among the behaviorists, there is the common sentiment that economics has been ruined by math. "Neoclassical economists came along in the mid-19th century and wanted to mathematize the new science of economics," said George Loewenstein, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University. "They couldn't include 'the passions,' or emotions, in their models, because they were too unruly, too complex. But they also thought that the emotions were unknowable."
Mr. Loewenstein described how he and his colleagues want to prove otherwise -- that not only are emotions not unknowable but that when it comes to money, they may be more powerful than math. This is why Mr. Loewenstein studies how people make financial choices while they are experiencing various degrees of sadness, hunger and sexual arousal. This is why Colin Camerer has become a student of brain imaging, trying to identify where a subject's brain lights up when, for instance, a lowball offer leaves him disgusted. 
But the most radical idea presented at the conference belonged to Richard H. Thaler. His paper, written with the legal scholar Cass R. Sunstein, was called "Libertarian Paternalism Is Not an Oxymoron." Leonine and youthful at 57, Mr. Thaler, who teaches at the University of Chicago, is widely considered the founder of behavioral economics (and some say, its next Nobel winner). He is more confident and, accordingly, more prescriptive than his younger colleagues.
"Behavioral economics offers powerful tools to achieve policy goals," he told the conference. "And libertarian paternalism is an attractive approach to solving policy problems. What else? I think the only other alternative is inept neglect."
Mr. Thaler has concluded that too many people, no matter how educated or vigilant, are poor planners, inconsistent savers and haphazard investors. His solution: public and private institutions should gently steer individuals toward more enlightened choices. That is, they must be saved from themselves. Mr. Thaler's most concrete idea is Save More Tomorrow (SMarT), a savings plan whereby employees pledge a share of their future salary increases to a retirement account. In test cases, the plan has proved remarkably successful.
"This was not pulled out of thin air," Mr. Thaler said. "It was done using what I call first-grade psychology. We knew this was going to work, no question." Indeed, the SMarT plan takes advantage of behavioral economics' basic tenets: "loss aversion" (people fear loss because it causes them far more pain than the pleasure they receive from gain; but since the SMarT plan covers a future raise, they never feel its loss); "status-quo bias" (since people are reluctant to change, the change can be made for them); and "mental accounting" (people have a pressing need to direct different streams of money into different "accounts").
Mr. Thaler was followed by David I. Laibson, a young Harvard behaviorist who also endorsed a paternalistic approach. "There are two enormous travesties in the financial services industry," Mr. Laibson said. "One, people have too much of their own company's stock, and two, mutual-fund management fees are too high." His solution to the first problem: an automatic asset reallocation to keep an employee from holding more than 20 percent of his portfolio in company stock. 
"People could opt out," he said. "If you're crazy enough to do that, fine, that's your right, but we'd certainly push them down." His solution to the second problem: warning labels about management fees, modeled after the surgeon general's cigarette warning. 
Mr. Laibson's and Mr. Thaler's proposals were warmly received by the bankers and mainstream economists. If this is behavioral economics, what's not to like? The proposals seemed to be sound and not particularly invasive solutions to Americans' troubling money habits. All the earlier talk of sexual-arousal studies and brain imaging may have left them flat; but here were some real action items.
The behaviorists, most of whom are hardcore empiricists, even felt comfortable enough to declare their own research wish lists. Dan Ariely of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology trolled the room for a good contact at the Internal Revenue Service (he wants to study the psychology of tax cheats). Duncan J. Watts, a sociologist at Columbia University, half-jokingly requested access to the phone and e-mail records of all Federal Reserve employees (he is looking for good data to better understand how organizations behave).
The warm reception didn't mean wholesale conversion. When Jeffrey C. Fuhrer, the Boston Fed's chief economist, was asked about Mr. Camerer's desire for a new Economics 101 textbook, one that puts behaviorism at the center and mathematical modeling on the fringe, he responded: "Yeah, that's his 'I Have a Dream' speech. I think that's still weeks off."
Still, Mr. Fuhrer, who organized the conference, was delighted with its outcome: "I think we would have been crazy to expect we'd walk out of this conference and say, 'O.K., we're going to our next meeting, and now we know what to do because these guys told us.' But having had these conversations, where people look at economics from a different viewpoint, will we think a little differently about how we do research and exactly which people we might talk to? You bet we will."
They may have little choice. As Frederick S. Breimyer, chief economist of the State Street Corporation in Boston, said, "We're looking outside the box because the box we've been looking inside is empty."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel Kahneman, left, is a Nobel recipient in behavioral economics; Matthew Rabin, center, is another prize-winner; and Richard H. Thaler says "libertarian" and "paternalism" fit nicely in the same phrase. (Left, Keith Meyers/The New York Times; center, University of California, Berkeley; right, University of Chicago Chronicle)(pg. B9); (Viktor Koen)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); RESORTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (70%); FAMILY (70%); BOATING & RAFTING (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); MODELING & SIMULATION (62%); MATHEMATICS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (93%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



706 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: ISLAMABAD; 
Pakistanis Protest Offer Of Iraq Force

BYLINE:  By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, June 27 

 BODY:
President Pervez Musharraf's suggestion this week that Pakistan might send troops to Iraq has set off a storm of protest here with opposition parties saying the president had no right to pledge such a force.
 General Musharraf made the comment after meeting President Bush at Camp David on Tuesday and securing an economic assistance package of $3 billion. 
He said that if certain conditions were met, Pakistan could provide up to 10,000 troops. 
 One condition, General Musharraf said, is money to finance the expedition, because Pakistan cannot afford to send such a large force itself.
India is also considering an American request to provide troops for Iraq, but such action by Pakistan, a Muslim country where the American and British operation in Iraq is so unpopular, would be particularly significant.
"His undertaking is not likely to be welcomed in the country, where the majority of people view the Americans and the British as an occupation force in Iraq," an editorial in The News, a Pakistani daily, said today. 
The paper said sending troops would be "tantamount to becoming part of an invasion force that subjugated a sovereign state."
Several politicians said the move would make the Pakistani Army nothing more than a mercenary force, and they voiced concern about the dangers the troops would face.
The outrage at General Musharraf's suggestion also reflects the growing opposition to his position as both president and military chief, which he has held since he seized power in a coup in October 1999. Lawmakers were gathered in the capital today ahead of a vote of no confidence in Parliament's speaker, a Musharraf loyalist, scheduled for Saturday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ARMIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); COUPS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (96%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



707 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Zimbabwean Urges U.S. to Act Cautiously Against Mugabe 

BYLINE:  By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, June 27 

 BODY:
Seizing on President Bush's call for a change in leadership in Zimbabwe, the opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai said today that his Movement for Democratic Change was developing a plan it hoped would lead to a peaceful transition of power in a country rocked by political and economic strife. 
 But Mr. Tsvangirai also said the United States should not overreach in southern Africa as it pressures President Robert Mugabe to step down. Rather, he said, "there must be a balance in how outside pressure can be applied in order to bring results," an apparent acknowledgment that Mr. Tsvangirai's party remains vulnerable to Mr. Mugabe's charge that it is simply a puppet of Britain and the United States. 
 "These are very delicate issues," Mr. Tsvangirai said in a telephone interview from his home in the suburbs of Harare, Zimbabwe's capital. "We have specific suggestions on how outside pressure can help." He said the opposition's leadership planned to meet over the weekend to come up with a plan to end the crisis, one that will include a call for new elections, something Mr. Mugabe's ruling Zanu-PF party has rejected. 
Mr. Tsvangirai's cautious embrace of Mr. Bush's call for change in Zimbabwe underscores just how difficult it will be to resolve the crisis there. It demonstrates why leaders in the region, including South Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki, have been reluctant to press Mr. Mugabe to step down despite general agreement that his departure from office after 23 years would be best for Zimbabwe and its neighbors. 
"The real situation is far more intricate and complicated than people realize," said Chris Landsberg, a political analyst and lecturer at the University of the Witwatersrand here. "I don't think it is as easy for South Africa to move on Zimbabwe as people make it out to be."
Mr. Mugabe has cast his struggle to retain power as a battle between African liberation and neo-colonial power, a strategy that has made it difficult for other African leaders to urge him publicly to step aside. 
In an Op-Ed article in The New York Times on Tuesday, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell urged Zimbabwe's neighbors -- South Africa in particular -- to take a more active role in defusing the crisis.
But experts here say Mr. Mbeki is reluctant to push Mr. Mugabe because bowing to Western pressure to shun him would cost Mr. Mbeki politically at home and diminish his standing among African leaders. Still, political analysts here expect that Mr. Bush will press Mr. Mbeki to act in Zimbabwe when the two meet in Pretoria next month. 
Once an economic powerhouse in southern Africa, Zimbabwe has descended into political and economic turmoil since last year's presidential election, won by Mr. Mugabe. Marked by widespread fraud, the election was not recognized by the United States and Europe. 
With his popularity waning, Mr. Mugabe has carried out an often violent program of land reform in which black squatters have taken land by force from white farmers. The country's agricultural output, once among the highest in Africa, has plummeted by 50 percent. Inflation is rampant at supermarkets in Harare, where cashiers weigh fat bundles of Zimbabwean dollars rather than count them because the currency's value has fallen so low. 
Mr. Tsvangirai, who won more than a million votes in the election last year, has twice been charged with treason and was jailed for two weeks after a recent series of mass protests in Harare and Bulawayo, Zimbabwe's second largest city.
Mr. Tsvangirai said that his party was ready for unconditional talks with the ruling Zanu-PF but that a new election was the only way out of the current morass. 
"The question is really the restoration of legitimacy of the government," he said. "It can only be restored by the free mandate of the people of Zimbabwe."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Morgan Tsvangirai, Zimbabwe's opposition leader, leaving High Court on Thursday in Harare, the capital, where he faces treason charges. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); THABO MBEKI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) ZIMBABWE (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



708 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-4

Mideast Accord Reached; Israel to Begin a Pullout
Israeli and Palestinian leaders reached agreement for Israeli forces to begin withdrawing from areas of the Gaza Strip and to return security control to Palestinian officers, officials familiar with the negotiations said. A1

Release of 5 Syrians Delayed
The Defense Department has delayed the release of five Syrian border guards wounded last week in an American attack on an Iraqi convoy near the Syrian border, American officials said. A1

Straw Backs Iraq Intelligence
Britain's foreign secretary, Jack Straw, said he stood by the accuracy of government intelligence on Iraqi weapons, but a new poll indicated that public disenchantment over the matter had cost the Labor Party its lead over the Conservatives. A2

Iraqis Had a Sabotage Plan
Allied officials say they recently obtained a document prepared by the Iraqi Intelligence Service calling for a sabotage campaign in case of Saddam Hussein's ouster. A5

Attacks on Soldiers Continue
American soldiers came under fire again across Iraq, with one soldier shot in the head while shopping in a Baghdad neighborhood and another killed in an ambush near the southern city of Najaf. A5

Liberian Leader Wants U.S. Aid
A day after President Bush called on him to step down for the sake of peace, a defiant President Charles Taylor, still reeling from a rebel attack on his capital, called for the United States "to do everything in its power to help Liberia and Liberians out of this mess." A3

Plans for Change in Zimbabwe
Seizing on President Bush's call for a change in leadership in Zimbabwe, the opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai said his Movement for Democratic Change was developing a plan it hoped would lead to a peaceful transition of power. A3

NATIONAL A7-11, 16

Long Road Predicted For Bill on Drug Benefits
Congressional leaders said they would need weeks or months to reconcile differences between House and Senate versions of a bill to add a drug benefit to Medicare. A1

The Medicare vote came after hours of cajoling and arm-twisting by the House leadership and Bush administration officials. A8

8 Charged in Terror Inquiry
Federal authorities charged seven men in the Washington area and an eighth in Philadelphia with stockpiling weapons and conspiring to wage "jihad" against India in support of a terrorist group in Kashmir. A7

Charges Dropped in Protests
The San Francisco district attorney's office dismissed infractions against 407 people arrested in March in anti-war protests. A7

Counsel Lauds Court Ruling
Alberto R. Gonzales, the White House counsel, spoke to an audience of Hispanic officials in Washington, praising the Supreme Court's decision upholding affirmative action in university admissions. A10

Court to Consider Redistricting
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether Pennsylvania's Democrats suffered a partisan gerrymander at the hands of the Republican Legislature in Congressional redistricting after the 2000 census. A10

Sodomy Conviction Is Vacated
The Supreme Court vacated the conviction of a Kansas teenager who was sentenced for having consensual sex with a younger boy in light of its ruling on Thursday that overturned a Texas sodomy law. A10

Bush Combs for California Cash
President Bush traveled through California raising more than $5 million for 2004 campaign, bringing the Bush-Cheney re-election effort totals to more than $18 million. A9

Religion Journal A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

City Council Votes To Make Budget Official
The New York City Council overwhelmingly passed a $43.7 billion budget that includes income, sales and property tax increases but maintains many services. B1

Caribbean Immigrants Prosper
The number of West Indian immigrants has grown over the last decade to one-quarter of New York City's black population. Disproportionately female, they have thrived while working in low-paying jobs. A1

Defusing a Poetic Controversy
Gov. James E. McGreevey and New Jersey state legislators are planning to vote to eliminate the position of poet laureate to mute the controversy begun by the current laureate, Amira Baraka, above, the author of a poem suggesting Israelis had been forewarned about the Sept. 11 attacks. B1

Bravest and Finest to Talk
A scuffle between members of elite police and firefighting units led Mayor Bloomberg to call a special meeting to prevent such incidents. B1

SPORTS D1-7

ARTS & IDEAS B7-15

Gains for a New Field
Behavioral economists, who blend psychology, economics and neuroscience to argue that emotion plays a role in economic decisions, have grown in influence. B7

OBITUARIES A12-13

EDUCATION

Just Another Troubled School
Lafayette High School in south Brooklyn was branded "Horror High" after a string of violence. But statistically, the school does not rank among the city's most dangerous. B1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

No-Call Web Site Overwhelmed
By 5 p.m. yesterday, 735,000 people had signed up for a Do-Not-Call Registry through a toll-free phone service or a Web site, and many more might have done so had the Web site been able to keep up with demand. C2

New York Community in Deal
The New York Community Bancorp is buying the Roslyn Bancorp for $1.6 billion in stock, forming one of the largest savings and loan associations in the New York area. More bank mergers could lie ahead. C2

Currency Traders Found Guilty
Four executives of a currency trading firm that was located in the World Trade Center were found guilty of cheating investors out of more than $100 million in a scheme that surfaced soon after Sept. 11. C4

Stocks Down for the Week
The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended a four-week winning streak. The Dow closed at 8,989.05, losing 89.99 points for the day, and 2.3 percent for the week. C4

NBC Sets Sights on Merger
NBC is seeking to reaffirm the seriousness of its proposal for a joint venture combining its television assets with Vivendi's cable and TV production businesses. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Incredible hulk of a budget; the Medicare measures; into Africa; Strom Thurmond's century.

Column: Bill Keller.

Bridge B10
TV Listings B15
Crossword B14
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (84%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (84%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (83%); LITIGATION (83%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); HEAD INJURIES (71%); REDISTRICTING (67%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (61%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (60%); ARRESTS (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: JACK STRAW (70%); ALBERTO GONZALES (56%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); KASHMIR (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); ISRAEL (95%); SYRIA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); LIBERIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



709 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: REVAMPING MEDICARE: THE CONTEXT; 
G.O.P. Steals Thunder

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
Medicare has always been a signature Democratic program, the proud legacy of President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society, established and protected by the Democratic majorities that reigned in Congress for much of the past 40 years.
 Now, the House and Senate have passed the biggest expansion and overhaul of Medicare since it was created, including a major new drug benefit for the 40 million elderly and disabled Americans covered by the government health insurance program. And it was Republicans, led by President Bush, who pushed it through. 
 Many Republicans see it as a transformational moment, akin to President Bill Clinton's signing of the 1996 welfare reform legislation, when a party embraces a cause that it once resisted and in so doing turns a vulnerability into a strength. 
Democrats have long argued that Republicans are insensitive to the needs of the elderly, more concerned with cutting the cost of Medicare than improving it. And in many elections, that argument has prevailed. So, for Republicans, how better to answer it than with a $400 billion benefit expansion that Democrats sought -- and failed -- to deliver for many years?
It is, to be sure, a fragile victory, and not without risk. Each house passed different versions of the measure early this morning. And the single-vote majority in the House hinted at the anger of many conservatives, who believe that the country cannot afford a vast new entitlement and that the legislation does not address Medicare's larger fiscal problems. The vote also suggests that it will not be easy to reach a consensus on Medicare that can pass the fiercely partisan House and a Senate that requires some bipartisanship.
Moreover, while Republicans will certainly get credit for a program that works, they will also be blamed for an unpopular program. And given the expectations of the elderly, and the complexity of the program, that is a real danger. Even Senate Democrats who voted for the legislation noted its shortcomings, perhaps thinking of future campaigns.
Still, Republicans reveled in the moment today. "People don't expect the conservative Republican Party to save Medicare and add prescription drugs, but we did it," said John Feehery, the spokesman for House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois. "And once we get this thing signed into law, I think seniors will look at us differently."
It would be hard, many Republicans say, to come up with a more tangible domestic accomplishment, or a better example of Mr. Bush's compassionate conservatism, as the next election cycle begins.
"Democrats were planning a very simple campaign," said Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster. " 'Bush promised a drug benefit, Republicans control everything, if you want a drug benefit you have to vote Democratic.' And it would have become another coda to a 40-year campaign of running against Republicans on these issues."
"Instead," Mr. McInturff said, "a Republican Senate, House and White House are well on their way to passing the largest expansion of Medicare in two generations."
Still, the tensions within the party remain. This morning, at a victory news conference, Mr. Hastert found it necessary to reassure his right flank. "This is not a huge government program," he said, acknowledging conservatives' fears that "this is a government entitlement that will get out of hand."
Even in the Senate, where the vote was an overwhelming 76 to 21, and where only 10 of 51 Republicans voted against the measure, there was unhappiness. Just as Mr. Clinton lost many of his party's liberals when he accepted time limits and work requirements for welfare, Republican leaders can only push their conservatives so far when it comes to expanding government programs.
The bargain Republicans made in their own party was to link the drug benefit to structural reforms to increase the role of private health plans in the program. But many agreed with Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, who argued that the bill was "heavy on subsidies and short on reform." Mr. Nickles said that Medicare "is a very unstable house, and we're getting ready to build another deck on top of it."
In the end, though, Republicans like Mr. Bush, Mr. Hastert and Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the Republican leader, seemed focused on demands from outside their party. Medicare is "woven into the fabric of America, the expectations of the elderly and the near elderly, not to mention a huge segment of the American economy," said Robert Reischauer, an expert on Medicare and president of the Urban Institute.
Dr. Frist reflected in an interview six months ago that his party needed to redefine itself on Medicare just as it had on education, with Mr. Bush's promise of "no child left behind." Today, Dr. Frist was able to stand with his fellow Republicans and declare "a new era for Medicare that offers better care for today's seniors and for those generations to come." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (79%); HEALTH INSURANCE (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELDER HEALTH (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); AGING (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



710 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Diversity 

BYLINE:  By BILL KELLER; E-mail: billkeller@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Whatever you think of the jurisprudence of Clarence Thomas, his dissent in the University of Michigan Law School affirmative action case this week is surely one of the most poignant documents ever issued by the U.S. Supreme Court. It is the angry exclamation of a black man who feels personally patronized and demeaned by what he sees as racial gerrymandering.
 The bitterness spills into the footnotes; in one, he explains why he derides racial diversity as an "aesthetic" concept. The law school, he writes, "wants to have a certain appearance, from the shape of the desks and tables in its classrooms to the color of the students sitting in them." To Justice Thomas's mind, diversity means the black man as decor. 
 This is hardly the first time Justice Thomas has infused the court's deliberations with the power of personal experience that no white justice could bring to the bench. During oral argument last December, for example, he startled the chamber with a rare outburst against the symbolic terror of cross-burning, which may well have influenced the court to rule that states can ban the practice. You can question how heavily personal narrative should weigh in deliberations on the law -- and you might well prefer Thurgood Marshall's life wisdom to Clarence Thomas's ferocious self-doubt -- but as a general rule it seems to me our legal system is more human, and more humane, if the cold logic of the law is warmed by a rich variety of experience.
Clearly Justice Thomas would be mortified to have himself held up as evidence in the case for diversity, but in a slightly off-kilter way he is exactly that.
Until Sandra Day O'Connor rescued the cause of diversity with her majority opinion in the Michigan case, the concept seemed to be falling into an ideological purgatory. It is not just a target of the right, which mocks diversity as a p.c. fashion. Liberal critics, too, question the value of diversity as a rationale for affirmative action. The Harvard sociologist Orlando Patterson, writing on this page last Sunday, said it is safer to base such claims on an appeal to historical justice, which is not so amorphous as diversity. (Unquestionably there are substantial debts outstanding from the legacy of racial oppression, but it's not clear to me why this is the only rationale for affirmative action.) Peter Schuck of Yale argues in his book "Diversity in America" that in practice diversity is "comically arbitrary" and rests on false, even insulting, assumptions that most blacks share the same experiences. Moreover, Mr. Schuck told me after the Michigan decision, "It's putting off the day that we will become something approaching a colorblind society."
Richard Kahlenberg at the Century Foundation argues that under the flag of racial diversity, universities admit middle-class black kids and congratulate themselves, while leaving a huge problem of economic disadvantage untouched. Mr. Kahlenberg proposes instead affirmative action based on economic class. (Not necessarily a bad idea, but an enormously expensive one.) The astute court-watcher Dahlia Lithwick, writing in Slate, ridiculed the notion that campuses should be designed so that white students can be enriched by a rainbow environment: "Schools are not petting zoos -- we don't fill them with lots of varied and interesting creatures merely as an end in itself." These are not right-wing misgivings.
My own views on this subject are not entirely theoretical. I'm a trustee of a liberal arts college that tries to attract black and Latino scholars using a standard much like the one at the Michigan Law School. I also work for a newspaper that makes an effort to hire and promote talented minority journalists. The paper does this not for the sake of doing good (for that it has a charitable foundation) nor to defend a principle (for that it has an editorial page), but mainly because we can better comprehend a disparate world and explain it to a disparate audience if our reporting and editing staff does not consist entirely of Ivy League white guys.
Anyone who supports diversity as more than a dogmatic slogan, though, has to wrestle with some serious questions.
What about merit?
Some supporters of diversity answer this objection by redefining merit, which is fair enough, since America has often changed the definition. Admission to top colleges was once based on something called "character," measured in such a way that it included mostly the scions of elite families. Now "merit" means G.P.A. and SAT. Why not expand the definition to include, say, "the predisposition to contribute to society"? One study of the University of Michigan Law School graduates showed that minority graduates, perhaps grateful for the opportunities they have received, give much more of their professional time to pro bono work.
My own answer to the merit question is a little different. When you are grading a student or assessing an employee, you judge by performance; to do otherwise would be condescending. But when you are admitting a student or hiring an employee, you are not just rewarding past achievement, you are placing an educated bet on future promise. Once you get past the threshold test -- can this person do the work up to our high standards? -- why would you not look broadly at what else they bring to the table?
If diversity is a virtue, why just race?
Why indeed? There are many experiences other than growing up black that are underrepresented in the most selective schools, or in the upper ranks of a business like mine. College admissions officers routinely give priority to point guards and cellists. Many editors I know would award implicit bonus points to a strong applicant who happened to be a military veteran, an evangelical Christian, a Muslim, a child of poverty or the proprietor of a small business, among other perspectives that are scarce in the American news business. But anyone who thinks that the legacy of race does not carry special weight is not living in the real world.
What about the stigma?
Justice Thomas once told an interviewer that as a black student at Yale, every time he walked into a classroom he felt as if a monkey had jumped onto his back from the Gothic arches. Other African-Americans who have risen high in our nation's service are less tortured by these anxieties. Condoleezza Rice, who acknowledges that diversity played a part in her academic career, and Colin Powell, who rose meteorically in a diversifying Army, both endorse some measure of affirmative action at important institutions. As Lani Guinier of Harvard Law School points out, if the stigma blacks experience were really about affirmative action itself rather than race, legacy students like, say, George W. Bush would share Justice Thomas's pain.
My favorite answer to the stigma question comes from the scholar Stanley Fish: the low self-esteem that comes from wondering if your success was based on merit is probably preferable to the low self-esteem that comes from never getting a chance to succeed in the first place.
Doesn't it divide us?
Professor Patterson argued in this space that under the rubric of diversity, "the pursuit of inclusion is replaced by the celebration of separate identities." It is true that on some campuses populated through affirmative action there is distressingly little contact among the races.
But that -- if you read carefully -- is not what Justice O'Connor defends at all. What she supports is a less fashionable, more uplifting notion of diversity as a way to fortify democracy. When it works, diversity accomplishes this in two ways. One is by diminishing the corrosive racial stereotypes that separate us. (Justice Thomas has certainly dispelled any myth that all blacks bow to the N.A.A.C.P.) The other is by legitimizing the institutions that govern us. This was the real import of the brief filed by retired military leaders in support of Michigan, arguing the importance of a racially diverse officer corps. Justice O'Connor extends this to her own profession, the importance of diversity in creating a judiciary credible to those it serves. I would extend it to mine, too.
What most diversity critics, right and left, yearn for is clarity -- clarity of logic, clarity of principle. What they encounter in diversity, and in Justice O'Connor's defense of it, is well-intentioned compromise, a political construct. And, by the way, if you have any doubt that she found the sweet spot where the American political consensus abides, just look at how quickly the Bush White House, despite its usual fetish for moral clarity, wrapped itself in her verdict.
Sometimes -- as in its broad and blessedly civilized ruling Thursday protecting gay Americans from the invasions of a censorious state -- the Supreme Court upholds high principle. And sometimes the best it can do is give us the muddle of real life. 
"A cynic," protested The Wall Street Journal, "might conclude that yesterday's decisions mean universities can still racially discriminate, as long as they're not too obvious about it." Yes, just so. The editorial might have added that this is pretty much what the first President Bush did when he appointed a black jurist of questionable distinction to the Supreme Court, insisting all the while that it had nothing to do with race.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Barry Blitt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); EVIDENCE (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SOCIOLOGY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%)

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



711 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: GOLF; 
At 13, She Already Has Tiger in Her Sights

BYLINE:  By DAVE ANDERSON

DATELINE: GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP, N.J., June 27 

 BODY:
She has been a teenager for only eight months, but golf aficionados already know her as much by sight as by name.
 "That's her," a middle-aged man said to his wife as the willowy amateur golfer waited to tee off in the ShopRite L.P.G.A. Classic today. "The tall girl. With the orange shorts." 
 And with the big wide arc in her swing.
Michelle Wie will enter ninth grade in Honolulu this fall. The only child of Korean parents, she has a 13-year-old's face, a 13-year-old's voice and a 13-year-old's devotion to Harry Potter books.
"I finished the new one," she said. "I've read them all except the third one."
But even with a dental retainer, Wie plays golf as if she were 23, if not older. As the United States Women's Amateur Public Links champion, she is the youngest golfer to win an adult national title. Today, she was the attraction for the largest gallery, about 500 people, at the 6,051-yard Bay Course of the Marriott Seaview resort near Atlantic City.
Wie, who is six feet tall, averages about 290 yards off the tee with her driver. At the Kraft Nabisco tournament in March, a major on the Ladies Professional Golf Association Tour, she tied for ninth. At the Chick-fil-A event, she tied for 33rd. She has qualified for next week's United States Women's Open in Oregon. She has been invited to play in two men's events -- one on the developmental Nationwide Tour in September, the other on the Canadian Tour in August.
Next to Annika Sorenstam, who shot 71 and 74 in a PGA Tour event in Fort Worth last month, Wie -- who started playing golf at age 4 -- is now the world's most-talked-about female golfer.
She has said she "wants to win the Masters," although a woman has never played in that tournament, much less won it. Then again, Tiger Woods has won it three times.
"And Tiger is her benchmark," said Wie's father and caddie, B. J., a professor of transportation at the University of Hawaii. "Not women -- Tiger."
Wie and her parents have insisted that she will attend college, perhaps Stanford, because, she has said, "they have a really good shopping mall." But if she continues to improve, it will be difficult to resist the financial temptation of turning pro at, say, 18, with several multimillion-dollar endorsement deals. For now, she is enjoying her amateur status.
"I like what I'm doing because there is no pressure," she said. "If you turn pro too early, it's like you have to make your own living. I don't want to do that because I like being unemployed."
With one birdie and one bogey today, Wie shot an even-par 71, six strokes off the lead. Tied for 51st place, she was not happy.
"I think I played pretty bad," she said softly outside the scorer's tent. "I think I could've made a lot of birdies and I should have. I wanted to shoot lower, like three or four under, because I wanted to be up on the leader board. I'm kind of bummed out because I wanted to do better."
She gently complained about receiving a few bad breaks when some of her putts went off line on the greens, bumpy from spike marks.
"When I was 10 or 11, if I played this bad, I'd shoot higher," she said. "Now I know how to recuperate myself and play better."
With the Women's Public Links title that she won, 1 up, over 21-year-old Virada Nirapathpongporn of Thailand in Palm Coast, Fla., on Sunday, Wie is already ahead of the career timetables set by Woods and Jack Nicklaus. Woods was 15 when he won his first national title, the 1991 Junior Amateur, and was 16 when he played his first two PGA Tour events. Nicklaus was 17 when he won his first national title, the National Jaycees.
Nancy Lopez, one of the L.P.G.A.'s greatest players, was 12 when she won the New Mexico Women's Amateur, but she was 15 when she won the 1972 United States Junior Girls. Another golfing legend, Babe Didrikson Zaharias, did not even start playing until she was 24.
Today, Wie's mother, Bo, a real estate agent in Honolulu, watched from the gallery while B. J. trudged along with his daughter's bag on his shoulder. But father and daughter often disagreed on club selection.
"We were on different planets," she said with a smile. "We were always arguing, but I was always right. Like on the par-3 where I hit it close, he wanted me to hit 5-iron, but I wanted to hit 4-iron. I hit 4-iron and I looked back at him and said, 'I was right' and he was like, 'Oh, you hit it fat.' But I hit it good."
She joked that she was not about to use a different caddie, saying, "I don't want to pay" for one.
Off the course, Wie's father makes her life selections. He turned down invitations for her to appear on "Late Night With David Letterman" and "Today" this week, but agreed to do a "60 Minutes" interview.
"No late-night shows," he said, smiling. "Outside the golf course, I make all the decisions."
Michelle Wie also has no desire to visit New York City. "I'm scared of it," she said. "I see these movies and my mom has been telling me stories about places, like about the taxi drivers." 
But she is not afraid of Saturday's second round at the Bay Course.
"I think I'll be able to shoot four under," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michelle Wie, who won the Women's Amateur Public Links Championship, shot par yesterday in the ShopRite L.P.G.A. Classic. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (93%); ATHLETES (90%); AMATEUR SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (87%); SPORTS FANS (78%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: LADIES PROFESSIONAL GOLF ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: MICHELLE WIE (89%); TIGER WOODS (79%); ANNIKA SORENSTAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (70%) HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



712 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS; 
Bidders Await Vote on 2010 Games

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The International Olympic Committee seems to love playing geography with the world. Cities queue up, without a break, to prove that their visions, downhill ski-course plans, stadium designs, athlete villages, cultures and histories are worthy in the competition to be host to a Summer or Winter Games.
 The I.O.C. analyzes, narrows the field and, in a biennial gathering reminiscent of a political convention, its membership chooses a winner for an Olympics to be held seven years in the future. By the time one host city is chosen, the race for another Olympics has begun. 
 The geographic roulette wheel for the 2010 Winter Games will stop Wednesday in Prague, when the 126-member Olympic committee will choose from among Vancouver, British Columbia; Salzburg, Austria; or Pyeongchang, South Korea. 
The selection comes less than a month after General Electric, the parent company of NBC Sports, acquired the rights to the 2010 Olympics for $820 million, the 2012 Summer Games for $1.18 billion and a worldwide sponsorship for up to $200 million.
The I.O.C.'s choice of cities from three continents raises immediate questions: Will it opt to return to North America eight years after the 2002 Salt Lake Winter Games? Will it stay in Europe for the third time in four Olympics, after the 2004 Summer Games in Athens and the 2006 Winter Games in Turin, Italy? Will it go back to Asia two years after the 2008 Summer Games in Beijing at a time when North Korea may be in possession of an arsenal of nuclear weapons?
And what impact will the 2010 selection have on New York's chances to play host to the 2012 Summer Games? "I get the sense that it's a two-horse race, between Vancouver and Salzburg," said Kevin Wamsley, director of the International Center of Olympic Studies at the University of Western Ontario in London. "There isn't much of a difference between the two. It won't be lost on the technicality of the bids. I don't see either one having an advantage. So politics and geography will be the determining factor."
Gong Ro Myung, chairman of the Pyeongchang bid committee, is aware that such handicapping may hinder his little-known city in the Taebaek Mountains. Pyeongchang is 62 miles from the demilitarized zone, in the only province that is divided between South and North Korea.
"You know, in this game," he said in a telephone interview, "sometimes the one rated as the best often turns out to be the loser."
Seconds after the I.O.C. chooses, the geography will begin anew: if Vancouver wins, is a bid for the 2012 Summer Games from Europe -- with cities like London, Madrid, Moscow, Paris and Leipzig, Germany, lined up -- bolstered at the expense of New York as the I.O.C. tries to spread the wealth?
Dick Pound, a Canadian member of the I.O.C. and a supporter of the Vancouver bid, said, "You'd think it's in the best interest of the Europeans to support a North American bid for 2010 to minimize the impact of a North American winning in 2012."
If Salzburg is the victor for 2010, are New York's chances strengthened?
Dr. Jacques Rogge, the president of the I.O.C., has repeatedly said that there are no continental rules of rotation for Olympic host cities, a point seized on by the leaders of the New York bid.
Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding for New York, who will be in Prague, said, "I'm not smart enough to know how all this will end up."
But if Vancouver wins, he said, New York's hopes should not be doomed, given that European cities played host to consecutive Winter Olympics in 1992 (Albertville, France) and 1994 (Lillehammer, Norway) and will play host to the 2004 and 2006 Games. He added that Vancouver is much farther from New York (2,435 miles) than any European host cities have been or will be.
"But the reality is, the Winter and Summer Games are on different tracks," Doctoroff said. "With a few exceptions, the only two regions to host the Winter Olympics are Europe and North America."
As the I.O.C. members convene at the Prague Hilton, their knowledge of Salzburg, Vancouver and Pyeongchang will come almost entirely from a report issued in March by the organization's evaluation commission, which did not rank the cities in order of competence or preference. Any of the cities would be able to stage a highly credible Olympics, the report said.
The refusal to rank heartened each bidder; Vancouver noted that the panel picked fewer nits with its plan than the others' and, by inference, seemed to make it the first among equals.
 "You have to treat the evaluation commission's comments as inspirational," John Furlong, the president of Vancouver 2010, said, "and we understood where there was a chance to improve."
But Gong, of Pyeongchang, said, "The report means we are all on equal footing."
All three bidders adjusted plans based on the commission's report. Salzburg cut events from three areas to make its Olympic region more compact. Vancouver said it would add a 2,000-bed village for the news media in the Whistler Mountain resort area to ease traffic. Pyeongchang assuaged concerns about accommodations.
Egon Winkler, the director general of the Salzburg bid committee, said that his group's biggest problem was wanting to give too many winter sports areas a piece of the Olympic pie. "We have lots of well-established, state-of-the-art venues," he said, "and we realized the I.O.C. wanted them reduced to less venues."
The victor in the race among Salzburg, Vancouver and Pyeongchang does not appear to be preordained. Rogge is not pushing any of the candidates, as his predecessor, Juan Antonio Samaranch, did on behalf of Beijing, which entered the voting for the 2008 Games as the favorite.
"These truly are independent decisions," said William J. Hybl, a former president of the United States Olympic Committee and a former I.O.C. member. "When we voted on Beijing, I was surprised at the number of different reasoning processes that people went through."
The decision on the 2010 host may hinge on the 45-minute multimedia presentations that the three cities will make to the 126 Olympic committee members and the one-on-one meetings allowed in the days leading to the decision. The seven I.O.C. members from the candidates' home countries cannot vote unless their city is eliminated. This is the second host-city selection under I.O.C. rules enacted in 1999; members are prohibited from visiting the cities to prevent them from seeking or receiving gifts from bid committees eager for their votes.
The candidate cities have spent years working to become finalists, receiving government financial backing and mapping out where the Olympic sports will be played.
They have assembled legions of volunteers, determined which facilities need to be built, married their cultural and environmental approaches to suit the I.O.C.'s missions, and fixed their plans to comply with suggestions by the evaluation commission.
"It's the same butterflies you feel before an important game," Furlong said. "We're in that serene period where you've worked on everything and we hope we've done everything we have to."
Winkler, of Salzburg, said, "Now I know how politicians feel when they're up for election."
Salzburg and Vancouver face conventional questions about their bids. But the tense political situation in the Korean peninsula puts Pyeongchang in a difficult position, notwithstanding North Korean's support of the bid. 
The situation forces Gong to turn nuclear tensions into something of a political asset. Awarding Pyeongchang the 2010 designation, he said, "will be good for building a peace in the world."
"The charter of the Olympics stipulates that Olympism is for building peace through sports," he said. "In 1981, when Seoul was bidding for the 1988 Summer Olympics, the tensions were even higher than they are today."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pyeongchang, South Korea, is among three cities hoping to be chosen by the I.O.C. as host of the 2010 Games. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); WINTER OLYMPICS (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SKIING (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); GEOGRAPHY (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (76%); MOUNTAINS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); PARENT COMPANIES (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (69%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (91%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (93%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); TURIN, ITALY (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (71%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CANADA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); ITALY (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GREECE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); ASIA (78%); FRANCE (72%); AUSTRIA (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003 



713 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: Don't Call Her Franklin 

BYLINE:  By Janet Burroway; Janet Burroway's most recent books are a collection of essays, "Embalming Mom," and "Imaginative Writing: The Elements of Craft."

 BODY:
 AUTO DA FAY
By Fay Weldon.
Illustrated. 366 pp. New York:
Grove Press. $25.
 FRANKLIN BIRKINSHAW -- the name she was saddled with at birth -- was only "three months in the womb" in 1931 when an earthquake razed the buildings in Napier, New Zealand, sucked the water from the harbor and sent her mother and sister fleeing into a tent city in the hills above the town. Her father was nowhere to be found. That is how the author we know as Fay Weldon came to be born in England, and perhaps that is how she came to weather with aplomb so many vicissitudes, venues, identities, men, marriages, professions and volumes of prose.
Franklin Fay Birkinshaw Davies Bateman Weldon Fox -- for such are the sequential selves she acknowledges -- says of herself, "I do what is under my nose to be done, without too much lamentation," and her autobiography, "Auto da Fay," bears her out. She is inclined simply to get on with things and also to make pronouncements in a no-nonsense mode: "Very few people are interested in the truth"; "The prophets of doom . . . are generally ignored and usually right." She's also fond of generalizing from a perspective at times pious ("Many good things come out of sacrifice"), feminist ("There is a certain kind of professor, often in the sciences, who seems to keep a wife only to insult her") and self-deprecating ("There is always someone else round the corner doing it better, charging less and cornering the market").
In paradoxical parallel to this pragmatic streak runs a family interest in the occult, which no doubt also feeds the fictional wellspring. Weldon's mother had a "gift for prophecy"; her maternal grandfather was a member, along with W. B. Yeats, of the secret cabalistic Order of the Golden Dawn; and she herself assumes "telepathy between members of a family," periodically protesting disbelief in ghosts even as she contemplates another poltergeist or a sobbing presence on the far side of the door.
Weldon is both a blithe and a troubled spirit, as befits her ancestry. Her great-grandfather, a violinist named Henry Holmes, fled to California after offending the Archbishop of Canterbury with a pamphlet on Free Love and the Life Force. Her grandfather the occultist was the author of 73 novels. Having persuaded a young concert pianist, Frieda Holmes, to give up her career and marry him, he later installed his mistress in a house right across the street -- until Frieda finally fled. An aunt, incestuously seduced as a teenager, went mad, was institutionalized and was never again mentioned by Weldon's grandmother. One or the other of Weldon's parents periodically retreated, licking wounds, home to England. In New Zealand, her father chased the ladies until her mother decided to retaliate with an affair of her own, at which point he divorced her for infidelity.
Weldon notices that the so-called Life Force "runs through families for generations, and causes terrible havoc," ruefully observing that "men are great theorists . . . in full pursuit of ends which to them seem noble but are simply not." Not surprisingly, she tells us that she's become "expert at receiving bad news."
In addition to its troublesome sexuality, Weldon's family went in for letters. Her grandfather, mother, father, uncle and half brother turned out novels, short stories, detective serials, memoirs and film scripts. But Weldon herself came to writing quite late and, apart from the occasional authorial insight, this is not a book about the making of a novelist. It is, rather, about the passage of an intrepid woman through the middle decades of the 20th century. Weldon had experiences typical of her generation: it's just that she seems to have had a lot more of them than most people.
In New Zealand, her father grew rich and reputable while her disgraced mother was increasingly impoverished. After Weldon's great-grandmother died in San Francisco, Weldon's grandmother, who'd been her companion, arrived in Christchurch, supposedly to help out, but she had very little money and so became just another mouth to feed. Constantly moving her brood from one rental to another, Weldon's mother eked out a living by writing romances and, once the war cut them off from London publishers, embarked on stopgap handicraft projects like painting face-powder boxes.
Fay and her older sister, Jane, came to look forward to comfortable sojourns with their father -- until the summer when they found, ensconced in his bed, a brusque lady doctor who eventually became their stepmother. Educated at a wide array of institutions (a convent, a girls' institute, a lavish private school, a tatty one in a rural village), shamed or befriended according to the family's current level of respectability or scandal, Weldon became resilient and resourceful while her sister had "a sadness and coldness growing inside her" that led to eventual tragedy.
Like many American children of the same era, Weldon found the remote war peculiar, "rather like a lot of playground games except people got killed," but at the end of it, the family had a Dickensian change of fortune. A scarcely known uncle of Weldon's mother left her $:900, enabling her to transfer her family of females to a London she remembered as cultured and elegant, but that had, in her absence, become pocked with bomb sites. After a seasick six-week passage in a stripped-down troopship, the four women arrived back in England on Fay's 15th birthday -- and began a further round of camping out in rented flats, depending on hardscrabble attempts to earn a living.
Jane married, but left her husband within eight weeks. (She had discovered that she didn't like sex.) Fay got a university scholarship to St. Andrews in Scotland, secured an M.A. in economics and psychology and set about losing her virginity, which was not that easy. "Men were more gentlemanly," she recalls, "than you might ever have supposed."
She returned to a London not friendly to female scholars. Her degree got her work as a hospital orderly, then a waitress, before she moved up to the $:6-a-week plum position of temporary assistant clerk on the Polish desk at the Foreign Office. Her real quest, as with others of her generation on both sides of the Atlantic, was for Mr. Right and, failing that (for it tended to fail), the warmth of nights not spent alone.
"A woman's body works as if it knew something she didn't," Weldon explains, "and does not have her best interests at heart." Pregnant by one man, in love with another, she gave up her job at the Foreign Office and moved to the rural village of Saffron Walden with her mother, her sister (now also pregnant in a second, on-again-off-again, marriage) and, for good measure, a pregnant friend. It comes as no surprise that they were joined by a weeping ghost. Next Weldon tried marriage (to a schoolmaster who wanted, she tells us, to pimp for her), then advertising (she tried to sell Smirnoff on the slogan "Vodka makes you drunker quicker"). She was into the fourth of her surnames before, with "all that early stuff digested and out of the way," she settled down to write.
Three dozen books later -- two dozen of them novels, including "Female Friends," "The Life and Loves of a She-Devil," "Life Force," "Big Girls Don't Cry" and "The Bulgari Connection" (infamous among the literati as an exercise in product placement) -- Weldon is the empress of breezy, blowsy prose.
Her female characters breeze through menstruation, incest, rape and other methods of deflowering. And they blowse through life, spending themselves into bankruptcy, running their Rolls-Royces over their husbands' mistresses and otherwise going to hell in a handbasket. The villains in her fiction can be safely hissed; you can see the comeuppances coming from a far distance; and the strands of her plots are tied up at the end in colorful birthday bows. Consequently, Weldon is a writer whose skills benefit from the ballast of real life.
Though she announces at the beginning of "Auto da Fay" that she's looking for the patterns of her own experience (and finds them), she's a woman so "rooted in the carnal and instinctive world" that she can hardly bend her life-so-far to a single narrative arc. Her portrait of London in the 1950's and 60's is intricately evocative. Her treatment of her adulterous father, who might have been given short shrift as a character, is generous: he's roundly forgiven and clearly beloved. Herself-as-heroine is multifaceted, nuanced and self-judging. Although, like many memoirists, Weldon ends her book just at the point when her career is about to take hold, her story of a lost girl on her way to finding herself winds up having heft as well as lift.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Andre Carrilho) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); MARRIAGE (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (53%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) NEW ZEALAND (93%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



714 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Car Talk 

BYLINE:  By Richard Lingeman; Richard Lingeman, a senior editor of The Nation and biographer of Theodore Dreiser and Sinclair Lewis, is the author of "Don't You Know There's a War On?," a social history of the home front during World War II.

 BODY:
 WHEELS FOR THE WORLD
Henry Ford, His Company,
and a Century of Progress, 1903-2003.
By Douglas Brinkley.
Illustrated. 858 pp. New York:
Viking. $34.95.
 LIKE the hedgehog in Isaiah Berlin's fable, Henry Ford had one great idea: cheap cars forthe masses. And he achieved it with the no-frills, basic black Model T, which dominated the American car market between 1908 and 1927 and winched America into the auto age. This story lies at the heart of Douglas Brinkley's sprawling history of the Ford Motor Company, "Wheels for the World," a big S.U.V. of a book, comprehensive and highly readable. 
Brinkley, the director of the Eisenhower Center for American Studies at the University of New Orleans, ably synthesizes previous studies (with scrupulous accreditation) while adding, he assures us, new information from company archives. He also brings to bear historical, literary and sociological data, all smoothly woven into a gaudy narrative. Some two-thirds of the book cover the reign of Henry Ford I, who founded the company in 1903. In the mid-1890's, while chief engineer for the Detroit Edison Company, Ford began tinkering in his spare time with a gasoline-engine quadricycle, which he successfully drove in 1896. He was off and running. 
Brinkley traces Ford's yen to build cars to his youth on a Michigan farm near the future Motor City. The boy was depressed by the hours of physical toil that was the lot of all farmers of that day. "From the very first, Ford was fueled by the notion that men and women should be spared the harshness and tedium of physical labor," Brinkley writes, about as deep as he goes in plumbing motivation. In 1902, Ford forged a partnership with Alexander Malcomson, a Detroit coal dealer, who brought capital and a brilliant associate, James Couzens. It was Couzens who devised and installed the accounting and business procedures that were as essential to the company's early prosperity as tires and magnetos. 
Although he was a competent engineer, Ford couldn't machine parts or read a blueprint, so he hired talented engineers like Harold Wills, who would design the model T. A thin, coiled spring of a man, folksy, uneducated, garrulous yet inwardly aloof and secretive, Ford had a talent for leading and inspiring others. As a contemporary put it: "Henry had some sort of magnet. He could draw people to him; that was the funny thing about him." Ford himself said, "I don't do so much, I just go around lighting fires under other people." 
The gallery of hard-driving subordinates who helped build Ford's company into a global enterprise would include the architect Albert Kahn, who designed Ford's first factory at Highland Park; the production ace William Knudsen, who later headed General Motors; Charles Sorensen, who ran the huge River Rouge plant in the 1920's and his sinister sidekick, Harry Bennett, chief of Ford's security army. All of these men (save Kahn) would eventually resign or be fired or forced out. Henry discovered them, hired them, gave them their heads, profited from their contributions and then clashed with them when they threatened his dominance. Except for his wife, Clara, who could quietly tell him where to get off, Ford's close relationships were marked by a pattern of "demonization of the strong and destruction of the weak," Brinkley writes. 
Even his only son, Edsel, who was highly qualified to enter the auto business, was a victim of Henry's oppressive ways. When Edsel became president of Ford in 1919, Henry glared over his shoulder, countermanding any orders he didn't like. John Kenneth Galbraith, in a 1958 essay, "Was Henry Ford a Fraud?," said, as Brinkley summarizes it, "Ford was something of a fool, albeit one who had inherited a great company from James Couzens." Galbraith said that Ford lacked the ability to build a business structure and that he was merely a front man, a promoter. 
There is truth in this. Ford did not design the Model T; he had a vision of a cheap car for the common man and Wills engineered it (with Henry overseeing and inspiring every step of the way). Similarly, the revolutions in manufacturing and labor relations forever linked to his name -- the assembly line and the $5 day -- were conceived by others, as Brinkley shows. Yet he says that Ford alone had the "vision and the courage to act decisively." 
Ford's central marketing idea was to outrun the competition by reducing costs and steadily lowering prices. The assembly line speeded up work by breaking down the automaking process into a series of simple, repetitive operations. The result was that "production nearly doubled every year for a decade after 1913, while the price of a Model T dropped by two-thirds." But, as Brinkley observes, "Fordism" changed the nature of work. It devalued craftsmanship, which gave workers pride and control over their tasks, transforming them into unskilled machine tenders. Realizing the growing crisis of morale the assembly line created, Ford introduced the $5 day, which doubled the average employee's wage. 
After the announcement, employee productivity shot up. Ford's revolutionary notion that higher wages would encourage consumption began at home: his workers were expected to buy Fords or hit the bricks. Model T sales soared -- 820,445 of them in 1919, more vehicles than were sold by all other American automakers combined. By 1923 the Ford Motor Company was worth over $1 billion, and Ford's personal fortune was $750 million. By this time, however, the dark, cranky side of Henry Ford's personality was emerging. There was his Peace Ship adventure during World War I, a wildly quixotic effort to get the boys out of the trenches by Christmas 1915. In 1920 he bought his local paper, The Dearborn Independent, and made it a megaphone for his ghostwritten anti-Semitic rants (which Brinkley pins on his Populist distrust of bankers). 
His business judgment became distorted as well. When Model T sales were outstripped by Chevrolet's low-end car (which came in a choice of colors), he stubbornly insisted that "the Model T is the most perfect car in the world." And in the mid-1930's, when thousands were jobless in Detroit and his own men wanted a union instead of paternalism, he ordered Harry Bennett and his goons to fight until the bitter end. Fortunately for his company, even Ford had to face reality. He publicly apologized in 1926 for the anti-Semitism. He listened to Edsel and with maximum ballyhoo brought out his first new model in 24 years. In the following decade he agreed to allow a union election at his plants after Clara threatened to divorce him. 
Edsel's son, Henry Ford II, was slated to take over after his father's premature death in 1943, but barring his way was Harry Bennett, who had a secretive hold over the old man and made himself de facto company head. Henry II later called Bennett "the dirtiest, lousiest, son of a bitch I ever met in my life." In 1945 the playboy prince ousted Bennett, with the help, Brinkley speculates, of his mother and grandmother, who threatened to sell their voting shares on the open market unless Henry I let his grandson assume the throne. The old man died in 1947, at the age of 83, and Brinkley provides a moving account of his final days. In charge at last, Henry II, a hard-drinking, hard-working executive with a tempestuous marital life, guided the company into profitable waters before stepping down because of poor health. 
Without the unifying leadership of Henry I, the rest of the story is less focused. Brinkley relates a tale teeming with model changes, Japanese invasions, government regulators, energy crises, court battles over faulty cars and the rocky tenures of the outsiders Robert McNamara, Lee Iacocca and Jacques Nasser, who preceded the current C.E.O., William Clay Ford Jr., Henry I's great-grandson. As Iacocca put it: "The family always hung in there. The company will be around for a long, long time because the family never throws in the towel." 
Henry Ford's big idea has indeed survived its first 100 years. Now, however, the downsides of the mass auto age he helped create have become more apparent than its promise. We have become part-time prisoners in our cherished chariots. The suburbanization engendered by the car culture has metastasized into urban sprawl. People spend up to four hours driving to and from work. Pollution has become a threat to "God's greatest open spaces," which Ford promised his Model T would make accessible to ordinary Americans. The national fleet's gas consumption makes us dependent on foreign oil. And the flight of automakers to the third world deprives American workers of the high-paying jobs that were the bedrock of the economy. Brinkley does not scant the social implications of the industry, but dealing fully with them would require a different book. Meanwhile, the book he has written is first-rate corporate history. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry Ford with James Couzens (left), the architect of Ford's successful accounting and business practices until his resignation in 1915. (from "Wheels For The World") 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); MACHINE TOOLS (75%); LITERATURE (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (74%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (70%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); ACCREDITATION (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); DETROIT EDISON CO (68%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (68%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



715 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 2979 words

HEADLINE: Ayn Rand, in Spades 

BYLINE:  By John Hodgman; John Hodgman's last article for the magazine was about Alexander Payne, the movie director.

 BODY:
I'm walking our sushi order back to the cafe table at the Reading Terminal Market in Philadelphia when I notice that Adam Wildavsky is talking to a fan. His name is Kumar, a retired pharmaceutical rep from India by way of Ohio. He's a bridge player like Wildavsky, here for the Spring Nationals, and he's sitting in my seat.
 Wildavsky, tall and gaunt with a trim brown beard, is listening to Kumar's questions, nodding placidly in a birdlike dip. He has attached his portable back-support pillow to his chair, as he does to every chair, because he spends most of his life sitting down. He is a computer programmer -- specifically, an adherent to a hyperefficient system called "Extreme Programming" -- and he is also one of the best bridge players in the United States. Kumar has just been eliminated from the Spring Nationals' main event, the Vanderbilt Knockout. Wildavsky's team, on the other hand, is moving on to Round 3 this afternoon. 
 "Kumar wants to know the secret to being a better bridge player," Wildavsky explains. His eyes gleam briefly, mischievously. "Of course, you know what I told him." 
Of course, I do. The secret to success in bridge is also the secret to success in life, and anyone who meets Adam Wildavsky soon learns it. 
As it happens, Wildavsky has enjoyed a lot of success in bridge recently. At the American Contract Bridge League's Fall Nationals, his team took the coveted Reisinger Board-a-Match. And then Wildavsky partnered with Ivar Stakgold, a bridge legend, to win the New York Regional Board-a-Match title.
These tournaments, like most major bridge wins, earned Wildavsky merely honor. Occasionally, though, tournament wins earn him cash. Wildavsky made $4,000 when he won the Bridge Pro Tour's New York Open on Dec. 27, 2002. After the win, he was quoted in a Pro Tour press release as saying, "Prize money will attract younger players and hopefully revitalize the game." Then he added, somewhat mysteriously, "Money is the root of all good."
Attentive readers will recognize the quote: it's the keystone of Francisco D'Anconia's defense of capitalism in Ayn Rand's very long novel "Atlas Shrugged." 
Adam Wildavsky is an Objectivist, a follower of Rand's controversial philosophy of staunch individualism, selfishness and unrestrained capitalism. Rand developed Objectivism, in part, to codify the ideal of the heroic man that had emerged in her fiction: a man who is unapologetically self-interested, dismissing all needless emotion and mystic hereafters, certainly anti-Communist, usually very tall and very gaunt, for some reason -- one who creates his moral worth through productive endeavor, be it the building of skyscrapers or railroads, the writing of very long novels or, presumably, the winning of major bridge competitions.
It is this heroic ideal that Wildavsky is trying to explain to Kumar at the Reading Terminal Market over sushi. 
"One of Rand's basic premises is that man has free will," Wildavsky is saying, "which is expressed primarily through a single choice: to think or not to think."
"I know, I know," Kumar says. "That is my problem. I think too much."
"No!" Wildavsky corrects him. You should always think, he says. Weak players, he says, follow "bridge nursery rhymes" -- and here he waggles his head, reciting, "Second hand low, third hand high, fourth takes if he can" -- instead of looking objectively at what the situation requires. 
When discussing the advantage that his Objectivism brings him, Wildavsky often returns to the same motif: reason must trump emotion. This is more than an abstract motto. It is, as he plays, a constant, rigorous, exhausting inner struggle: to resist guesswork and gut reaction and "spacing out," to analyze each hand in itself, each bid, play after play after play. 
At first glance, bridge isn't the most obvious game for an Objectivist. A deck of cards is divided equally between two partnerships -- North/South, East/West -- each of which works to win a set number of tricks above a book of six tricks. The number of tricks and the trump suit are established before play by an auction. A player bids four hearts, for example, if he thinks he and his partner can make 10 tricks with hearts as the trump suit. 
But the bids and their sequence are also an intricate code through which each player tries to reveal the contents of his hand to his partner. This is not a lonely, tall, gaunt genius building a skyscraper or even conquering a crossword puzzle. It is an intimate relationship of trust and mutual reliance. Some partnerships last longer than many marriages. More end in anger; the game is notorious for its bad breakups among partners, its ability to inspire frustration, recrimination and rage. Kumar says that he began playing bridge 30 years ago with his wife. And then, with an apologetic glance weighted with bad memories, he gently explains, "I am sorry to say I have difficulty playing with her now."
But Wildavsky is always tranquil, always silent. He refuses to rehash hands at the table or to listen as other partners chew one another out, an uncommon deaf-muteness he has named "the Keller Convention," after Helen Keller. It wasn't always this way. He used to be a "terror" at the table, he tells me. Then he stopped looking at the game emotionally and started looking at it Objectively. "Selfishiness is what led me to the idea that it would be profitable to be nice to my partner," he says.
It most likely helps that his partner in the Vanderbilt, Doug Doub, is also an Objectivist. Counting himself, Wildavsky estimates there are three Objectivists among the 100 top players in the United States. 
Meanwhile, at the Reading Terminal Market, Kumar thanks Wildavsky, shaking his hand vigorously. "I learned a lot." 
"You're welcome," Wildavsky says. He has offered Kumar some additional recommendations from the Rand oeuvre. "Let me know how you enjoy 'The Virtue of Selfishness,"' he says as Kumar departs.
Adam Wildavsky, 43, has been playing bridge since he was in high school in Oakland, Calif. He continued playing at M.I.T., where he studied computer science. It was there that someone gave him a copy of "Atlas Shrugged," and he has been an Objectivist ever since.
But it is only recently that he has been publicly weaving together his two passions, dropping references to Rand into an article for Bridge Today, where he is an occasional contributor, and crediting Objectivism for his success when speaking to the bridge media. In December, his Reisinger win was lauded by Alan Truscott, bridge columnist for The New York Times, as "a triumph for the Objectivism of Ayn Rand."
But the response has not always been positive. Last year, Wildavsky released a manifesto of sorts, a 300-word mission statement now posted on his Web site. "I owe a large portion of my success in bridge, and in life, to novelist Ayn Rand," it begins. "To be successful a bridge player . . . should always have a reason for his actions. Rand put it succinctly -- 'Emotions are not a means of cognition."'
Hardly inflammatory stuff, yet the first time Wildavsky deployed his essay within the bridge community -- via the electronic newsletter of the bridge Web site, okbridge.com -- the letters swiftly followed.
"Have no doubt, whatever Adam Wildavsky may tell you, that the teachings of Ayn Rand are extremist," wrote a reader named Brian Meadows.
"The 47 lines about Ayn Rand should never have appeared," echoed Stefan (no last name given), with a bridge player's characteristic exactitude. "I'm disgusted."
But the heroic man does not require acceptance. Consider "Atlas Shrugged." After Francisco D'Anconia delivers his "Money is the root of all good" speech to a party of government moochers, fey intellectuals and moneyed socialists, he leaves them all to rejoin his fellow titans of industry and science in a place called Galt's Gulch. The gulch is the Objectivist utopia, a refuge for the heroic thinkers whom the world has rejected. In many ways it resembles a bridge tournament: thick with C.E.O.'s (Warren Buffett is a renowned player of the game, and Bill Gates made an appearance at last year's World Championships in Montreal) and as far away from the real world as it gets.
On this day, utopia is the Philadelphia Downtown Marriott, site of the league's Spring Nationals -- more than 100 events over 10 days, drawing more than 5,000 players. They play in two four-hour sessions a day. The elite then head up to the suite of the league's president for cocktails and a deli platter. Many more gather at the hotel bar for drinks and the constant reliving of hands.
Adam Wildavsky strides into this world on long legs, with a box of clementines from the Reading Terminal Market that he drops off in his room before heading down to the fifth floor, the bridge floor. (Wildavsky is on the Zone diet. He wants to lose a few, he says, though he looks plenty skinny to me. I guess we can all stand to be a bit gaunter.)
Wildavsky is joining his six-man team for the afternoon's play of the Vanderbilt. It's the same team that won the Reisinger, including Doub. Today, they're playing against a five-handed team that includes one of the best players from Argentina and also one of the famous Hackett twins from England, Justin or Jason, Wildavsky isn't sure which.
One of Rand's favorite adjectives is "indifferent": it describes a kind of Objectivist Zen state of selfish focus, and it describes Wildavsky perfectly. He seems beatifically clueless of the anxiety that permeates the hotel. He introduces me to a man who is apparently one of the top players in the world, a short man with angry eyes and gray hair. The man seems frustrated that I have not heard of him and shakes my hand reluctantly. His hand feels angry somehow, clawlike and clammy, and his mind is clearly elsewhere: on the game to come or maybe some game from years ago. Bridge players are a haunted lot, possessing long memories, particularly for the hands that went wrong. They have their own language, a swingy patois full of metaphors and eponyms that sounds like a cross between a science textbook and scat.
(Consider this passage from Edgar Kaplan and Alfred Sheinwold's "How to Play Winning Bridge": "Five-card majors, pre-emptive jumps, weak two-bids, controlled psychics -- all have been widely used by many others. We are advocates not of the separate ingredients but of the whole concoction.")
Wildavsky introduces me to Ivar Stakgold, his friend and partner from the New York Regional. Ivar resembles a distinguished foreign character actor, the kind of guy who would be getting the Max von Sydow roles were he not busy being an applied mathematician and bridge legend. "I knew Edgar Kaplan when I was a young man," he says. "I contributed a little bit to the Kaplan-Sheinwold system. You know it? Yes. Anyway, in 1997, Edgar Kaplan passed away." He pauses, a little sadly. "There was a memorial service, and I said a few words, as people will do. And this young man," he says, indicating Wildavsky, "approached me and said he was interested in playing the Kaplan-Sheinwold system, which not many people were doing. I had not played serious bridge for years. It was a sad event, but something good came out of it. He brought me back into this terrible world."
Later, I will ask Wildavsky about this story. Why did he invite Stakgold to be his partner? Was it gratifying to bring someone of Stakgold's caliber back to bridge? In an e-mail message, Wildavsky scolds me for my sentimentalism. Kaplan-Sheinwold experts are hard to come by, he writes, especially ones that play well. "Look for the selfish motive!" he instructs.
When Wildavsky gets his cards, he leans back against his portable back pillow and tries to get his legs under the stubby little table. There is a moment of study and rearranging of his hand. Then, with a decisive inner nod, he sits up, gently arching his head and neck forward. Bidding begins, but it is silent -- each player indicating his bid or his pass by pulling the appropriate laminated card from a little box mounted to his right. Each player shows his bid card -- one spade, say, or two no-trump or pass -- then places it face up on the table. There are perhaps two-dozen tables in this sectioned-off bit of ballroom, and for the course of the tournament, the room is full of the airy shuffling of bid cards, punctuated by the puff of an asthma inhaler, a call for the card caddy or one partner quietly chastising another in between games. Wildavsky and Doub are playing against Michael Polowan and the Hackett twin -- Jason, it turns out. 
All is going smoothly until Hackett pulls out the stop card, indicating he is going to skip a level of bidding. Wildavsky waits 10 seconds and then shows his pass card. He does this because he knows the rules, and the rules say he has to wait 10 seconds. But Hackett thinks that Wildavsky waited too long, and he raises his hand to call the director.
Bridge is at once gentlemanly self-policing and deeply suspicious. You can't sigh funny or scratch your nose or wait a second too long, or else you risk being accused of sending "unauthorized information" to your partner. You must aspire to an even, expressionless tempo -- a kind of robotism that, at later levels, is enhanced by screens that prevent partners from seeing one another, requiring them to pass their bids through a small hole, like secret messages between prisoners in adjoining cells. 
The director comes over. The players hunch and whisper their recollections of what happened, a quick Rashomon of silent seconds counted, who did what when. Finally the director determines the delay will not affect the outcome. Wildavsky and Doub end up winning the session, helping their team to a net gain of 37 International Match Points. 
Some people get angry when the director is called on them. But Wildavsky doesn't seem to mind at all. That's exactly what should happen, he tells me later. It is when people are afraid to call the director that the system doesn't work.
And Wildavsky likes systems -- especially, it seems, if they are somewhat antique, like Kaplan-Sheinwold, or a little counterintuitive, like extreme programming, which boosts efficiency by having two programmers work the same problem at once. ("That's something of a tough sell to management," he says.) And he seems to like systems that are clear and final, even if they are occasionally opaque to the outsider, like bridge and like Objectivism. 
Objectivists believe in absolute laws, whether of nature or of morality. This is Ayn Rand's promise that "A is A": up is not down, good (capitalism) is not evil (Communism), unemployment insurance promotes unemployment, three hearts cannot be bid after three spades and selfishness trumps all.
Although sometimes it doesn't. Later that evening, Wildavsky and Doub allow their opponents to make a three no-trump contract, and at the end of the night, they are out of the running. It's not easy to watch the team take in the surprise and sadness of this unexpected defeat. There is some sullenness, some verging-upon-tears. But Wildavsky bobs gently from toe to toe, a little shaken but generally calm.
"If I played perfectly every time," he says, "what would be the point?"
Wildavsky seems to have forgotten all about the loss when I meet him later at the hotel bar. "Objectivism is a reality-based philosophy," he will say later. "We realize that time only moves in one direction. Whatever is in the past is not undoable."
We run into Wildavsky's fellow bridge players Sheri Winestock and Uday Ivatury, who are having cocktails and talking about Objectivism. Winestock is married to Fred Gitelman, another Objectivist bridge player, and together they write and distribute bridge educational software through their business, Bridge Base. 
Ivatury, meanwhile, is a computer programmer who helped found the Pipeline with James Gleick (also a bridge player) and is not any kind of Objectivist. In fact, Ivatury openly, smilingly, claims that he is trying to deconvert Winestock away from right-wing fanaticism. He has been needling Gitelman and Winestock about Bridge Base: if they're such hard-line capitalists, why are they giving this program away?
"Uday doesn't understand that selfishness is not always about money," Winestock says. "The game I love is dying. If I help bring people into the game, that is good for me."
Wildavsky nods. "You can do things for other people so long as it's not a sacrifice." 
Some weeks later, I press Wildavsky on a similar point: if Objectivism truly gives him an edge in bridge, why share it with the competition? He gives me two answers, both of which I think are true. First: "I just decided that my philosophy is the most important thing that makes me what I am, and it couldn't hurt to let people know."
The second explanation: it has to do with Sept. 11 and the sense that day provoked in Wildavsky that our society is under attack, not just from collectivism within but also from a kind of destructive nihilism without. "It's more clear now that the survival of Western civilization is at stake," he says. A more Objectivist world would be a better place for Adam Wildavsky to live, and that would trump whatever advantage he might lose in bridge.
At the end of the night, back at the bar, Wildavsky runs into Michael Polowan, Jason Hackett's partner during the controversy over the 10-second delay. "I want to give you some advice," Wildavsky says. "There is a rule that I don't think Jason understands." Wildavsky goes on to explain that under A.C.B.L. rules, he was correct to wait the full 10 seconds and posits that perhaps Jason was mistakenly following the European rules on waiting. Polowan rolls his eyes slightly, probably thinking, sour grapes. But I don't think that's it at all. As a bridge player, as a programmer, as a philosopher, Wildavsky is always fine-tuning the system. Why? Look for the selfish motive. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adam Wildavsky (David Harry Stewart); Wildavsky objectifying at Honors, a bridge and games club in New York. (Gillian Laub for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARD GAMES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CONTRACT BRIDGE LEAGUE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



716 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1903 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
Orchestral Survival: It's Not Simply The Economy, Stupid

BYLINE:  By JAMES R. OESTREICH

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
THEY were successive entries in Andante.com's news summary one recent Thursday: "San Antonio Symphony Declaring Bankruptcy," "Oregon Symphony Musicians Take Pay Cut." Scrolling back to Wednesday brought "Bailout of Florida Philharmonic Making Progress." (The orchestra has since declared bankruptcy.) On back to Tuesday: "Louisville Orchestra to File for Bankruptcy." (The orchestra has since saved the situation.)
 And on through the previous weeks and months, with a pay freeze at the Milwaukee Symphony, no end of problems at the Pittsburgh Symphony and orchestral woes in Charleston, S.C., Savannah, Ga., and Columbus, Ohio. Even the mighty Chicago Symphony has faltered financially of late. 
 It might have seemed that the agenda for the annual conference of the trade organization the American Symphony Orchestra League, ending here last weekend, was ready-made. "There's nothing like a bankruptcy to focus the mind," Michael Morgan, the music director of the nearby Oakland East Bay Symphony and of the Sacramento Philharmonic, said at one panel, paraphrasing Samuel Johnson on the effect of witnessing a hanging. 
Yet at least in the open sessions (open, that is, to the entire membership of the league and to the press), there was little hint of panic. Despite frequent references to "these hard times," "economic troubles" and "severe challenges," the word "crisis" was for the most part studiously avoided.
"We've decided to work on the solution side rather than wring our hands," Jack McAuliffe, the league's vice president and chief operating officer, said in conversation.
Mr. McAuliffe points out that in the last recession, during the late 1980's and early 90's, 8 of the nation's 350 or so professional orchestras (those in which at least some members are paid) went out of business, and all have since come back or been replaced in their cities. Again, over the last year or so, 8 orchestras (besides the Florida Philharmonic and the San Antonio Symphony: the Colorado Springs Symphony, the New York Chamber Symphony, the San Jose Symphony, the Savannah Symphony, the Tulsa Philharmonic and the Washington Chamber Symphony) have declared bankruptcy, and most are in reorganization proceedings.
Those figures were recited often during the week. But are all the returns in? Mr. McAuliffe says he knows of no other orchestras teetering on the financial chasm at the moment. And what of the alarming deficits mounting at several major orchestras? Those, too, Mr. McAuliffe maintains, had parallels back then. Hewing again to the party line, he adds that other fields -- everything from the airline industry to the National Hockey League -- have suffered proportionally greater losses than the orchestral business in the current morass.
In another mantra, Henry Fogel, who has just left his post as president of the Chicago Symphony (having started as executive director in 1985) to become the president of the league, noted both publicly and privately that "Orchestra Balances Budget" or "Orchestra That Is Basically Sound Posts a Smaller Deficit Than Expected" is not a sexy headline. And indeed, as in so many areas of life now, you have to wonder about the impact of the Internet: especially, the daily drumbeat of those dire reports on Web sites that cover the musical scene. There is certainly more immediate awareness of spreading miseries than there was a decade ago.
Still, some attendees found the relentless cheerleading of the public sessions a little eerie in its conscious avoidance if not denial of fundamental problems.
"This conference is a sales pitch," said Joseph H. Kluger, the president of the Philadelphia Orchestra. "But just because these things aren't being addressed publicly doesn't mean they aren't being discussed," he was quick to add, alluding to the private sessions and to informal exchanges among the participants.
And in conversation with this outsider, many of those in the trenches spoke freely of a crisis. Things have never looked this bad, experienced managers of orchestras large and small said in their own mantra.
"Everybody has been experiencing it," said Gideon Toeplitz, who was the managing director of the Pittsburgh Symphony from 1987 until last month. "If they don't tell you that, they're lying. I'm missing the focus at this meeting."
The official spin, Mr. Toeplitz suggests, is a gross oversimplification. He sees not a cyclical repetition of crises but a continuation of basic structural problems that were masked rather than resolved by the bull market of the 90's.
"The problems will continue no matter what happens to the economy," he said. "We can't continue to think the way we did 50 years ago. Everything has changed around us. You can't focus on just one thing. You have to change everything at the same time: the cost structure, the revenue structure, the product offering. A 10 percent fix is calling for more trouble real soon."
When asked how you get a handle on this total restructuring or where, specifically, you start, Mr. Toeplitz shied away. Nor did he seem impressed with the darling of the conference, the recent contract settlement at the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra, where the players agreed to salary cuts in exchange for greater managerial and artistic control. There, the role of the music director in programming, auditioning and personnel matters has been diminished (with the approval of the incumbent, Andreas Delfs), making him more the "principal conductor" of a collective of players, along the lines of some European orchestras.
This restructuring, with pay cuts as a more or less central element, was widely espoused as a model for the future, even among larger orchestras. (The St. Louis Symphony and the New Jersey Symphony had begun to explore avenues of collaboration even before St. Paul agreement.)
For Mr. Toeplitz, this was merely another balloon to prick. "These are just processes," he said. "The question is, what are they going to do with these processes? Are they going to spend enough time addressing audience issues and relevance issues?" Again, he stopped short of suggesting ways to do so.
Among the major orchestras, the issue of salaries and overall compensation has become crucial. To dwell on this matter at the risk of another kind of oversimplification: during the last half century, the lot of orchestral musicians has improved tremendously, and rightly so. They had been underpaid and often abused by autocratic music directors and managers. An exponential growth in festivals and special events afforded players fuller or year-round employment, and the plusher economic times allowed many to catch up with and in some cases surpass the prosperity around them.
But despite economic downturns, the players have tended to remain in catch-up mode, expecting salary increases like those of the last contract or those granted their orchestral peers, whichever are higher. Managements, fearing strikes, have largely acceded. Even before the economic swoon following Sept. 11, many in the field had come to realize that the salary increases were more than the market could bear.
Over the last decade or so, the pace-setter was Mr. Fogel's Chicago Symphony. "I believe that in really good economic times orchestras should not spend up to their revenues and should instead go for a surplus and keep a cushion for the future," Mr. Fogel told The New York Times last month. "I wish I'd believed that 10 or 15 years ago."
When questioned about the issue here, Mr. Fogel offered an example of the masking Mr. Toeplitz referred to. A decade or so ago, the Chicago Symphony "hid its deficit," Mr. Fogel said, diverting a $10 million bequest that would ordinarily have been parked in the orchestra's endowment to cover operating costs. Asked specifically about players' salaries, Mr. Fogel said: "That's too politically loaded. I would never blame the unions." (The current base salary for Chicago players is $100,100; most make more, some much more.)
Michael Kaiser, the president of the Kennedy Center in Washington, which runs the National Symphony, said, "Orchestras are trapped by fixed costs." And the major element of fixed costs is the players' salaries and compensation packages. It can be eased only by reducing the number of players, a move almost sure to affect artistic quality, or cutting salaries or increases, with all the risks that would entail. (Even with such talk wafting around them, player representatives, given a newly prominent role in the conference, generally joined the chorus on behalf of labor peace and cooperation.)
Most orchestras have already trimmed administrative staffs to the bone. So the best recourse in the present crisis -- and Mr. Kaiser is another who uses the word freely -- is clearly to increase revenues. That was the focus of many of the strategic sessions, and as became painfully apparent, it is easier said than done in the current economy. Endowments are sagging and contributions from individuals, corporations, foundations and governmental sources, once lavish, are harder to come by.
Still, unlike Mr. Toeplitz, Mr. Kaiser, who has brought institutions ranging from the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater to the Royal Opera House in London back from the brink of bankruptcy, holds that the orchestra can be made to work in its traditional makeup, without radical restructuring.
"It all has to do with programming and aggressive marketing," Mr. Kaiser said. "The natural tendency in a time of crisis is to pull in, but that is exactly the wrong thing to do." What is needed is visibility, he suggests, and success breeds success. He mounted an acclaimed Sondheim festival at the Kennedy Center last year, and he has programmed a major Tchaikovsky festival for December.
"Every orchestra can do this," Mr. Kaiser said. Others are skeptical. Some would argue that Sondheim and Tchaikovsky are not all that adventurous to begin with, and the Kennedy Center can readily command resources like the Kirov Opera of St. Petersburg to complement its own forces. Such grandiose projects might not relate to the more mundane and intransigent problems facing most orchestras, especially smaller ones. Mr. Kaiser would counter with his work at Ailey, done on a shoestring.
For some, like the perennially challenged Brooklyn Philharmonic, presenting adventurous, highly visible and acclaimed projects has at times meant living beyond their means. That orchestra has been making strides toward stability in recent years, with Robert Spano as its accomplished and imaginative music director, but it is still hard to see the light.
"The tunnel seems longer these days, at least in New York," said Catherine Cahill, the orchestra's chief executive officer.
On the brighter side, the San Francisco Symphony, which played host to the conference, has balanced its budget in recent years, largely on the strength of enterprising programming under its music director, Michael Tilson Thomas. During the conference, in fact, it offered a minifestival, "Innocence Undone: Wagner, Weill and the Weimar Years," featuring an evocative semistaged production of Wagner's "Flying Dutchman" and performances by the torchy Ute Lemper.
"You have to be optimistic to do this kind of thing," said Brent Assink, the orchestra's executive director. "Music has such great powers of resiliency. If we were to come out at the other end of this ordeal cautious and reluctant to take risks, that would be a real tragedy."

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Belle Mellor) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); AIRLINES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA LEAGUE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (76%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



717 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1843 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN; 
San Francisco

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER HALL; CHRISTOPHER HALL is a journalist in San Francisco.

 BODY:
A sound not heard in San Francisco for two years reverberated along the waterfront 12 days ago. The clock on the historic Ferry Building, frozen during a renovation completed in March, was set in motion and once again chimes on the hour and half-hour. The clock had been stopped only three times before, by earthquakes, and its chiming signals the Ferry Building's rebirth. Though its soaring interior still feels slightly empty after being closed for three years, the Ferry Building is slowly filling with permanent vendors who will turn it by summer's end into a showplace of Bay Area food.
 The building could be a metaphor for San Francisco in 2003: all gussied up, but a little empty. After the renovation of many public spaces in the past few years, among them Union Square and the new home of the Asian Art Museum, the city is looking mighty fine. But tourism has been in a funk, leaving normally bustling sights like Fisherman's Wharf curiously uncrowded. 
Still, the city's charms, including summer fog, endure despite rocky economic times, and you'll never find it easier to score a table at a good restaurant or stay at a top hotel for a bargain price. And thanks to a new Bay Area Rapid Transit extension, it will be easier to get to the San Francisco airport. (Details, Page 3.) 

Events
 On July 4, the San Francisco Mime Troupe will present the premiere of its latest political comedy, "Veronique of the Mounties," the fictional tale of an impending United States invasion of Canada known as Operation Frozen Freedom. Through next Sunday, performances, all free, are at 2 p.m. in Dolores Park, 18th and Dolores Streets; (415) 285-1717;www.sfmt.org. Until Sept. 1, the show will play at parks in San Francisco and around the Bay Area. 
 Nine programs will be screened with piano, orchestra or organ accompaniment during the San Francisco Silent Film Festival, July 12 and 13. Included are "The Crowd," King Vidor's acclaimed 1928 movie about the life of one ordinary man; an early Walt Disney cartoon series combining live action with animation; and the 2001 American silent "Claire," filmed with a vintage hand-cranked camera. The festival takes place at the ornate 1921 Castro Theater, 429 Castro Street; (415) 777-4908; www.silentfilm.org. Tickets $12 to $14. 
 From July 26 to Nov. 4, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art will present "Marc Chagall," a retrospective of 153 paintings and works on paper, many never before seen in this country. The museum, which will be the sole site for the exhibition outside Paris, is at 151 Third Street; (415) 357-4000; www.sfmoma.org. Closed Wednesday. Tickets to the Chagall show are $15, which includes $10 general admission.
 A blanket or beach chair is the preferred seating as the Stern Grove Festival, through Aug. 17, presents free Sunday 2 p.m. concerts, from the San Francisco Symphony next Sunday and the San Francisco Ballet (July 27), to the band <1>Cubanismo! (Aug. 10) and the funk-soul group War (Aug. 17). Concerts take place in the grassy natural amphitheater at Sigmund Stern Grove, 19th Avenue at Sloat Boulevard in the Sunset District; (415) 252-6252; www.sterngrove.org. 
 At the Festival of Cheese on Aug. 2, you can sample more than 400 artisan and farmstead cheeses from across North America as well as California wines and other specialty foods. The event is 7 to 9 p.m. at the Ferry Building, Embarcadero at Market Street; (502) 583-3783; www.cheesesociety.org. Admission is $65 in advance, $75 at the door.
 The Brazilian singer-guitarist-songwriter Joao Gilberto will perform solo at 8 p.m. on July 25 and 26 at the Masonic Auditorium, 1111 California Street; (415) 776-1999, www.sfjazz.org. Tickets, $25 to $60.

Sightseeing
 The new home of the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco has been a hit since opening in the Civic Center in March in the city's former main library. The 1917 Beaux-Arts building contains 33 permanent galleries showcasing 2,400 objects, from massive stone Buddhas to delicately carved netsuke. The audio guide, included with admission, provides a lively survey of Asian art, and allows visitors to investigate topics in greater detail. On display through Aug. 31 is "Warrior Kings and Divine Jesters: Indonesian Puppets From the Herbert Collection." The museum is at 200 Larkin Street; (415) 581-3500; www.asianart.org. Closed Monday; admission, $10.
 The Anchor Brewing Company has been around since 1896, though its current incarnation as a small maker of traditional handcrafted beer dates from 1965 when Fritz Maytag, an heir to the appliance fortune, bought the company and helped start the modern microbrew renaissance. During once-a-day free weekday tours, visitors get a dose of both company and San Francisco history, a technical overview of the brewing art and a chance to taste beers. The brewery is at 1705 Mariposa Street, in Potrero Hill; (415) 863-8350; www.anchorbrewing.com. Reservations required.
 South of Market Street between Third and Fourth Streets, the five-acre Yerba Buena Gardens complex has a variety of attractions, including a children's play area, vintage carousel, indoor ice rink with skyline view, contemporary art gallery and an interactive art-and-technology center called the Zeum. But the central grassy area is what makes it the green heart of downtown. Popular with lunching office workers, the lawn also is the site through Oct. 26 of the Yerba Buena Gardens Festival, a free series of concerts and cultural programs that includes a performance by the San Francisco Chamber Orchestra July 27; (415) 543-1718, www.ybae.org.

Where to Stay
 At the Hotel Adagio, 550 Geary Street, (415) 775-5000, fax (415) 775-9388, www.thehoteladagio.com, to open Tuesday in a vintage Spanish Colonial Revival building about two blocks from Union Square, the 171 handsome rooms come with stylish modern furnishings in warm Mediterranean tones, Aveda bath products, Egyptian-cotton linens and high-speed Internet access. Introductory rates of $119 to $159 for a double room continue to the end of the year.
 The Handlery Union Square Hotel, 351 Geary Street, (415) 781-7800, fax (415) 781-0269, www.handlery.com, which completed a major renovation in March, offers 377 contemporary-style rooms in pale grays and olives. The hotel also has a barbershop, restaurant and heated outdoor pool. Doubles run $119 to $169.
 Budget: The Cornell Hotel de France, 715 Bush Street, (415) 421-3154, fax (415) 399-1442, or visit www.cornellhotel.com, is a friendly 55-room Gallic outpost, with reproductions of a different French painter in each floor's hallway. The owners are French and most of the staff French-speaking. Doubles are $90 to $139, including a full breakfast in the cozy French-country restaurant.
 Luxury: Housed in a 1909 neo-Classical landmark building, the Ritz-Carlton, 600 Stockton Street, (415) 296-7465, fax (415) 986-1268, www.ritzcarlton.com, is an oasis of elegance, serenity and impeccable service on the side of Nob Hill. The marble-columned lobby feels like the hall of a great English estate, with wood paneling, crystal chandeliers and oil paintings. Amenities include a garden, indoor pool and top-notch French restaurant, the Dining Room. Decor in the 336 rooms and suites is understated and traditional, with down duvets and Frette linens on the feather beds, and Italian marble bathrooms. Doubles $299 to $450; suites $549 to $5,200.
 The Prescott Hotel, 545 Post Street, (800) 283-7322, fax (415) 440-3016, www.prescotthotel.com, occupies two renovated 1911 buildings about a block from Union Square. The lobby and adjacent "living room" feature a large fireplace and kicky furnishings like modern art-glass light fixtures and club chairs upholstered in purple and oxblood leather. In the 164 rooms, the look is more traditional, with Empire-style furniture, richly colored Ralph Lauren fabrics and brown marble counters in the baths. Room service is provided by the in-house Wolfgang Puck restaurant, Postrio. Doubles $175 to $275, suites $255 to $500.

Where to Eat
 Tucked into the ground floor of a vintage luxury apartment building, CharlesNob Hill, 1250 Jones Street, (415) 771-5400, showcases the intricate and intensely flavored French-California cuisine of 26-year-old Melissa Perello. Dishes like fiddlehead fern salad with morels, delicata squash puree with caramelized Nantucket Bay scallops, and a sweetbread and porcini ragout are served by a polished young staff in two small, quiet, clubby rooms. You can order a la carte or one of the prix-fixe menus, which are $48 a person for three courses to $100 for a seven-course tasting menu. Dinner for two with wine runs over $200. Dinner Wednesday to Saturday.
 La Table, 3640 Sacramento Street, (415) 345-8600, which opened eight months ago in the Presidio Heights neighborhood, features seasonal brasserie and modern French fare like braised lamb medallions with summer vegetables, and duck breast with chestnut-flour polenta fries and semidried apricots. There are two dining areas, one a smart, tailored space with chairs upholstered in faux-tiger, the other a dramatic room with giant swag drapes and oversize paintings of waterlilies. Dinner for two with wine is about $130.Lunch and dinner daily.
 At the foot of Telegraph Hill, nine-month-old Piperade, 1015 Battery Street, (415) 391-2555, offers updated Basque classics like braised seafood stew in red pepper sauce, and a warm sheep-milk cheese and ham terrine. The dining room is warm and rustic, with a wood-beamed low ceiling and red brick walls. Large groups occupy a communal table in the center. Dinner for two with wine: $100. Lunch weekdays, dinner Monday to Saturday.
 There's often a crowd at year-old Limon, 3316 17th Street, (415) 252-0918, in the Mission District, where Nuevo Latino and Peruvian specialties like halibut ceviche with yam, corn and mussels, and a pork chop with cabbage-potato hash and a mushroom ragout are served in a tiny dining room whose walls glow in shades of lemon, lime and tangerine. Dinner for two with wine is $75. Closed Monday.
 Chow, 215 Church Street, (415) 552-2469, near the Castro District, offers American comfort foods like braised short ribs with mashed potatoes, grilled lemon-herb chicken, and apple or pecan pie in a down-home room where a Hershey's syrup can on each table holds flatware wrapped in brown paper napkins. A second location near Golden Gate Park, Park Chow, is at 1240 Ninth Avenue; (415) 665-9912. Lunch and dinner daily. Dinner for two with wine or beer, about $40.
 The city is full of no-frills Vietnamese coffee shops where you can generally find milky, sweet Vietnamese-style coffee, fruit-based pearl tapioca drinks and noodle soups. Sandwiches known as banh mi are made of warm, crusty French bread holding meat, slivered vegetables and cilantro. Among the busiest and best such shops is Little Paris, 939 Stockton Street, (415) 982-6111, in Chinatown, which has a branch in the Richmond District at 444 Clement Street; (415) 221-6028. Breakfast and lunch (until 5:30 p.m.) daily. Lunch for two with tea, $7 to $12. Cash only. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anchor Brewing tour. "Lovers in the Red Sky" (1950) in a Chagall retrospective. The renovated Ferry Building. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times Ferry Building, beer , San Francisco Museum of Modern Art Chagall ) Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on ---. (Sources: Runzheimer International, U.S. Census Bureau, Fodor's World Weather Guide, local businesses) Map of San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (88%); FESTIVALS (86%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); PAINTING (73%); MOVIE REVIEWS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); THEATER COMPANIES (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (68%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (68%); ANIMATION (66%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (66%); THEATER (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



718 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Midwood; 
Bustling Area With a Touch of Country

BYLINE:  By DULCIE LEIMBACH

 BODY:
WITH their deep front porches and overhanging eaves, Midwood's predominantly shingled two-story houses with front yards and driveways feel more like suburbia than like Brooklyn. Developed at the turn of the century as an alternative to Manhattan congestion, Midwood lies directly south of Flatbush and offers a fast link on Ocean Parkway to the borough's beaches.
 It is home to variety of ethnic groups, with Orthodox Jews prevailing but Chinese, Pakistanis, Haitians and Russian and Syrian Jews also represented. The picturesque houses convey tranquillity if not solidity, though some houses are gently shabby. 
 Which is not to say that Midwood is without luster. In May, the lawns were pristine, with dogwoods and lilacs interspersed among more mature maples and oaks. And on the eastern side of Ocean Avenue, which bisects Midwood, the homes tend to be luxurious, frequently done in a brick French chateau mode with mansard roofs and precision landscaping. 
Robert Viscusi, a novelist and English professor at Brooklyn College, said the birds near his house in Midwood, where he has lived for 24 years, provided the only sounds to be heard in the morning. "We get blue jays and cardinals and monk parakeets," he said. "I live in a one-family house and have a 10-minute walk to work."
As Jacob Gold of Jacob Gold Realty said: "People move to Midwood for a touch of the country, the tulips and the driveways. It's a touch of suburbia with an easy commute, no through traffic on some streets. It gives the illusion of escapism." But some street organizations hire private patrols, signs on lawns announce security systems and discreet bars are installed on windows.
Midwood may be luring more striving immigrant families than it did, say, 20 years ago, but it remains a relative bargain for people who want to live in old roomy houses and head to Manhattan by subway. The Q express can get riders to Midtown in about 45 minutes and the aboveground subway tracks are embellished with wisteria.
The H Avenue station, on the border of Midwood and Flatbush, is an example of the area's old-fashioned charm. The 97-year-old structure was originally a real estate office, but now serves riders on the Q local. New York City Transit is rehabilitating the Q stations, so Avenue H's future is up for debate. The wooden station is considered a fire hazard by the authority, which proposed to demolish it and build a new station. Community District 14, representing Flatbush and Midwood, is fighting that plan. "We have gone back to the drawing board," said Deirdre Parker, a Metropolitan Transportation Authority spokeswoman. "We are looking for alternative ways to keep it the way it is."
Meanwhile, the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission is considering a request to designate the station a landmark and the surrounding neighborhood in Flatbush, Fiske Terrace, a historic district. The petition cites the enclave, named for the family that sold the property to the developer, for its distinguished older Victorian homes, many with curving front porches.
The northern boundary of Midwood is the Long Island Rail Road tracks just above Avenue I, and Avenue P and Kings Highway are the southern boundary. The eastern border is Nostrand Avenue, a strip of car dealerships, among other enterprises, and Coney Island Avenue to the west, where Pakistanis have settled. Their numbers, however, are dwindling because of a backlash resulting fromthe Sept. 11 attacks.
Nevertheless, Midwood is a "very stable community," said Ron Schweiger, the Brooklyn borough historian.
To enter the neighborhood's public library branch, on East 16th Street, during a weekday afternoon is to experience a traffic jam: the tables and aisles are packed with children doing their homework or checking out books. English classes are available for immigrants, and a recent lecture about the Jews of Afghanistan typifies the library's programs to keep residents in touch with current events. An elder storytelling program encourages residents to share their tales of Brooklyn and immigration.
On Avenue J, a low-key commercial strip, stores reflect the tastes of Midwood: kosher restaurants, delicatessens, pizzerias and butchers abound, but others specialize more narrowly, like one bakery concentrating on Russian bread. Ostrovitsky's Bakery sells buttery cookies that dissolve in your mouth. A number of large fruit grocers offer produce at competitive prices. But Avenue J can also be too hectic during weekdays, with cars making U turns and creating precarious crossing conditions for pedestrians.
There are at least a dozen yeshivas in Midwood, and most Orthodox children attend those schools.
An equally bustling street is Avenue M, where there is another elevated subway station; here the stores are more cosmopolitan, one finds a Godiva Chocolatier, Chock Full o' Nuts cafe and Nesle Caffe, selling smoothies, among other drinks. Many shops close by 3 p.m. on Friday, and the street is a veritable ghost town on Saturdays. Below Avenue M, the houses shrink, sitting on tight lots, fewer of them with driveways; apartment buildings, low-rise and brick, are more abundant, particularly along Ocean Avenue, which is four lanes wide but less traveled than other major north-south streets in the neighborhood. 
Midwood consists mostly of one- and two-family homes and multifamily walkups. Except for stores, there are few commercial operations; parks consist of the Rachel Haber Cohen Playground and adjacent basketball courts, near Edward R. Murrow High School. The playing fields of Brooklyn College and Midwood High School are generally open to the public when the schools are not using them.
MIDWOOD, whose name is derived from the Dutch word midwout, which means middle woods, was settled in 1652 and ultimately overtaken by the English. It was a rural area until developers started offering irresistible deals to farmers in the early 1900's to create middle-class housing tracts. Vitagraph Studios, on Avenue M, sprouted around 1907 to make silent movies. (It is now a yeshiva, the Shulamith School for Girls, covering prekindergarten through 12th grade.)
House prices have been rising over the last few years, thanks to an increasing population of professionals and extended Orthodox Jewish families, who often relocate to larger homes within Midwood as their families expand. The average price in 2002 was $475,000 for a one- to four-family house, said Jacob Shayovitz, a local broker. He said that the market was virtually idle now, with few houses for sale. "There is no inventory," he said. "When a house does land on the market, it can sell overnight."
But Sora David, a broker with Eisberg Lenz in Midwood, said that there was plenty for sale, although properties did not stay on the market for long. "This is a very close-knit community," she said. "We're really in our own world here."
This spring, a house at Avenue M and East 21st Street sold for $675,000, said Mr. Gold, who handled the sale. Mrs. David's office sold a two-family house at 1916 Ocean Avenue for $550,000 a few months earlier.
Prices are deemed so high in Midwood that less expensive areas near by, like Marine Park to the southeast, Mr. Gold said, are becoming destinations for buyers.
As for co-op apartments, Mr. Shayovitz said the average price for a two-bedroom apartment was $100,000 to $150,000. Rentals, however, are languishing. "The economy has made it not as busy as usual," said Robert A. Svoboda of Jacob Gold Realty. One-bedroom apartments are $900 to $950 a month; two bedrooms are $1,150 to $1,300.
Brooklyn College's Georgian style architecture sets an Ivy League tone at the northern edge of Midwood. Since Christoph M. Kimmich became president three years ago, one of his purposes, he said, was to allow residents to partake in the library and athletic facilities, including the pool and tennis courts, through a community membership program. The school's performing arts center and health and job seminars are also open to the public. "Once a year, we engage our students and faculty and the neighborhood in a cleanup day," Dr. Kimmich said. This spring, they tackled graffiti.
The larger public high schools in the area -- Midwood High School and Murrow High School -- are both widely praised. Midwood High School, on Bedford Avenue, is renowned for the number of Intel science talent search awards it has won. Although there is no entrance examination to the school, half the students are admitted based on achievement in middle school.
Murrow emphasizes a broad college preparatory curriculum of English, science, social studies, foreign language and math, with an additional concentration on fine arts, drama and music. Applicants for the special fine-arts programs must submit portfolios or audition. Priority to Murrow is given to students who live within three blocks of the school, but all Brooklyn residents are eligible; and anyone who has scored in the highest 2 percent on the seventh-grade reading test is automatically admitted if the school is listed as the student's first choice. Murrow is progressive: no letter grades are assigned; classes meet four times a week, with the fifth day spent on independent study, and there are no athletic teams. Advanced placement classes are offered in calculus, music theory and economics, among many.
Other high schools close to Midwood in Flatbush are Brooklyn College Academy, an alternative high school on the campus of Brooklyn College, and Brooklyn Night High School, an evening school on the campus of Midwood High School.
Public School 193, the Gil Hodges School, is a prekindergarten through fifth-grade program at 2515 Avenue L. A gifted program there attracts kindergartners who are already reading; fifth graders immerse themselves in "The Odyssey." Additional tracking takes place below the gifted level. P.S. 193 was cited in "New York City's Best Public Elementary Schools," a guide by Clara Hemphill with Pamela Wheaton that lists the city's better public schools by borough and district. This year, 68 percent of the fourth-grade students met state standards in the English-language arts test. In 2002, 64 percent met the math criteria (this year's math figures are not available yet).
At P.S. 199 on 1100 Elm Avenue, the curriculum centers around literacy and technology. School uniforms are mandatory; immigrant children are from Russia, Ukraine and Pakistan. On the English-language test this year, 82 percent of the fourth graders met the standards; in 2002, 83 percent met the math standards.
On East 22nd Street near Nostrand Avenue, P.S. 197 offers an extensive reading and writing curriculum for its prekindergarteners through fifth graders, even extending English classes to parents, some of whom are Russian or Ukrainian. This year, 61 percent of the fourth-grade students passed the English-language test, while 62 percent passed the math exam last year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: East 18th Street, near Avenue J, top, and Avenue J itself, which abounds in kosher restaurants, delicatessens, bakeries and other food sellers.; 4-bedroom, 4-bath one-family house at 1379 East 15th Street, $425,000. Semiattached 3-family (main unit has 2 bedrooms), at 935 East 29th Street, $695,000. 5-bedroom, 4-bath house at 1487 East 14th Street, $725,000. (Photographs by Steve Hart for The New York Times) Chart: "GAZETTEER" POPULATION: 52.065 (2000 census).AREA: 1.3 square miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $37,640.MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $425,000.MEDIAN PRICE ONE YEAR AGO: $395,000.MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $350,000.MEDIAN PRICE ON A TWO-FAMILY HOUSE: $600,000.MEDIAN PRICE OF A TWO-BEDROOM CO-OP: $120,000.MIDRANGE RENT ON A TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,200.GOVERNMENT: City Councilman Michael C. Nelson (Democrat); Community Board 14.CODES: Area, 718; ZIP, 11230. COMMUTING TIME TO MIDTOWN: About 45 minutes total, starting on the Q local (which stops at Avenues H, J and M) and switching to the Q express at Newkirk Avenue.ALPHABET AVENUES: The east-west avenues in Midwood are lettered, starting with Avenue I and ending at Avenue P. They were named that way primarily to help newcomers navigate the area in the early 1900's. "The name of the community was Midwood Manor," said Ron Schweiger, the Brooklyn borough historian, and on a map from 1908, there were actually more letter names. Some of the roads' names have changed, however. Just north of Midwood in Flatbush, Avenue F is now Farragut Road and Avenue G became Glenwood Avenue. Most north-south streets are numbered in Midwood, and there has never been any movement to give them more felicitous names, Mr. Schweiger said. The cost of the earliest houses in Midwood Manor, he said, were comparably high: on East 10th Street and Avenue I, for example, new single-family homes were $4,000; two-family, $5,000, in about 1907 or 1908. Map of Brooklyn highlighting Midwood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); BEACHES (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); IMMIGRATION (63%); HISTORIC SITES (60%); ETHNICITY (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



719 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
How to LearnFrom Closed-End Funds, Without Buying

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of CBS MarketWatch. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
BUYING a closed-end fund at its initial offering is rarely a good idea because of the hefty sales commissions that underwriters earn on the deal, according to Owen Lamont, an associate professor of finance at the University of Chicago.
 But Professor Lamont says investors can still learn a lot about the stock market by analyzing the types of new closed-end funds that are being sold to the public. 
 Unlike traditional mutual funds, closed-end funds have a fixed number of outstanding shares. Except in rare circumstances, a closed-end fund cannot issue more shares to meet investor demand or redeem existing shares in response to selling by investors. 
Because of this, the prices at which closed-end funds trade often diverge significantly from their net assets per share. If demand for a particular fund is strong, an investor may have to pay a premium above its net assets per share. If demand is weak, a seller may have to accept a discount.
Until about 1990, some contrarian market timers successfully based their trading on the average premiums or discounts of closed-end equity funds in general. Large discounts were considered bullish signals, while small discounts, or premiums of any kind, were seen as bearish. In January 1987, for example, 10 months before the crash, the average discount of closed-end domestic equity funds narrowed to less than 1 percent.
But this market-timing system did not work well in the 1990's. According to Donald Cassidy, senior research analyst at Lipper, the average discount of closed-end domestic equity funds narrowed sharply in 1993, at the early stages of a long bull market. Moreover, the largest average discount since 1990 -- more than 17 percent -- was at the end of 1999, just before the bear market.
But Professor Lamont, an expert in the study of market inefficiencies, says another aspect of closed-end funds -- the number of new funds that focus on certain market sectors -- sheds more light. Because closed-end funds can be hard to bring to market, fund companies tend to start new ones in those market areas where individuals are most eager to invest. That often means that these sectors are overvalued in comparison with the rest of the market.
Because underwriters typically earn a sales commission of 7 percent on a new closed-end fund, he said, "investors are being asked to pay a dollar for significantly less than a dollar's worth of assets." This looks like a good deal only to investors who are wildly enthusiastic about a sector. 
Before 1999, for example, no closed-end equity funds focused explicitly on the Internet and high-technology companies. But in that year, two such funds came to market, raising nearly $600 million. A third arrived in June 2000, raising more than $100 million. The market peak for Internet and high-tech stocks was in the first half of 2000.
SIMILARLY, many closed-end funds focusing on specific countries' stocks were issued in the late 1980's and early 90's, reflecting investor enthusiasm for foreign stocks. The number of new funds in the category reached a peak -- 11 -- in 1990, raising more than $1.3 billion.
That year was also a peak in foreign stocks' relative strength. Over the 10 years through 1990, the Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe, Australasia and Far East index, or EAFE, beat the Wilshire 5000 by an average of 4.4 percentage points a year. By the end of 1995, however, the EAFE had fallen behind the Wilshire, when measured over the trailing 10 years; it has stayed behind ever since.
Recently, real estate has been the focus of many new closed-end equity funds. During the 1990's, only one such fund was issued -- in 1993, raising just over $100 million. But two started in 2001, and six more in 2002, raising a total of more than $2.1 billion.
Because of that popularity, investors may want to bet that real estate will lag behind the rest of the stock market over the next decade.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Narrower Discount"Closed-end domestic equity funds often trade at a discount to their net asset value. The discount widened at the end of 1999, and has narrowed recently. Graph tracks the average discount of all domestic equity closed-end funds(as of the end of each year) from 1990 through June 20, 2003. (Source: Lipper)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); SALES COMPENSATION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); BONDS (73%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



720 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
Seeking to Overturn a Ruling on Delinquent Taxes

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
THE New Jersey Supreme Court is being asked to resolve a dispute over the way Jersey City arranged to collect delinquent property tax money a decade ago. The issue, according to parties on both sides, is of moment today not only to the taxpayers who were then delinquent and the bank and finance companies who gained control of their tax liens -- who have $27 million at stake -- but also to current and future delinquent taxpayers and any municipality that arranges for private tax collection.
 Last month, a state appellate court reversed a two-year-old lower court ruling that had awarded the $27 million -- a figure that included triple damages -- to delinquent taxpayers who complained they had been victimized after Jersey City transferred their tax liens to private companies. 
 Now the taxpayer group is asking the state's highest court to strike down the appellate court's ruling and reinstate the damages. As long as the appellate court ruling stands, private companies that have purchased municipal tax liens may negotiate whatever terms they can get delinquent property owners to agree to in order to extract payment, according to lawyers for both sides. 
And what is the problem with that? Attorneys for the companies involved in the Jersey City transactions argued there is none, since property owners are free to hire lawyers to negotiate the best possible terms for paying off their tax debts.
According to attorneys for the taxpayers and an organization representing municipal tax collectors, however, the problem is that those facing delinquency are financially vulnerable, may not be able to afford a lawyer and can easily fall prey to unscrupulous practices. 
The roots of the legal dispute go back to 1992, when Jersey City had severe financial problems and a backlog of $44 million in unpaid real estate taxes -- and a new mayor, Bret Schundler. Mr. Schundler, who had been a bond broker and knew his way around financial markets, pioneered an idea for solving Jersey City's money problems by using a technique he had learned on Wall Street: securitization.
Mr. Schundler -- who went on to become the Republican candidate in the gubernatorial race two years ago -- in effect proposed securing a private loan for the city, using owed taxes as collateral.
Mr. Schundler persuaded state lawmakers to pass a law enabling Jersey City to bundle its tax liens and transfer them to a trust, in exchange for $25 million in cash and a $19 million promissory note. The cash would come from investors who purchased bonds from the trust, and the promissory note was to be paid off with some of the money collected from delinquent taxpayers.
In 1993, the former Bankers Trust -- now part of Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas -- issued the bonds and hired the Breen Capital Services Corporation of Bordentown to collect back taxes and foreclose on property if necessary.
In 1994, the same participants handled another 1,200 real estate tax certificates worth about $14 million to the city, with the financing arranged in the same fashion, part cash to Jersey City and the rest in a note.
Municipalities have long auctioned off tax sales certificates to individual investors who try to collect back taxes or else foreclose on individual properties. In fact, in the brief filed to the appellate court on behalf of Banker's Trust and Breen, the practice of "tax farming" is referred to as historic and is said to have been used in ancient Egypt, Greece and the Roman Empire and during the Middle Ages in Italy and England. 
But Jersey City was the first municipality in the country to introduce large-scale securitization into the field of tax farming. Hundreds of others, in New Jersey and around the country, have since followed.
Initially, the move brought a raft of favorable publicity for Mr. Schundler, along with the infusion of cash for the strapped city.
But things soured after a time. Court documents say that Breen was unable to collect enough cash from the sorely delinquent taxpayers to pay off all the investors, and one group of investors took Breen to court. Jersey City also sued Breen and wound up collecting only $6 million on the $19 million note.
Meanwhile, several property owners who had failed to keep up with their payments and forfeited their homes to Breen hired lawyers who filed a class action suit on behalf of all 2,300 delinquent taxpayers, claiming that installment plans were illegal unless arranged by a municipal tax collector -- and furthermore that they had been victims of consumer fraud because Breen had overcharged them on interest and fees.
Breen, headed by J. Douglas Breen, who had also been in the bond business, had set up installment plans for only about 600 property owners, and 80 percent of them made their payments and kept their houses.
But that left more than a 100 other cases. Ruth J. Fails, for example, one of the taxpayers who initiated the lawsuit against Breen, was described by lawyers as a struggling grandmother who had raised six children in the house at 150 Bergen Avenue that she bought in 1977.
Judge Jose Fuentes, who awarded summary judgment and the $27 million in damages to the taxpayers in November 2000, noted in his opinion that Mrs. Fails was approached by Breen to enter into an agreement regarding a payment plan "at a time of great vulnerability, when her economic world was collapsing around her." The company took the opportunity to "extract from her the last financial breath," he wrote.
Mrs. Fails, who still resides in the Bergen Avenue home, continued working as a postal clerk beyond retirement age in order to stay there and now pays rent to a landlord, said Jeffrey Herrmann of Cohn Lifland Pearlman Herrmann & Knopf of Saddle Brook, the law firm representing the taxpayers.
Officials on the other side of the case respond that Mrs. Fails didn't pay any taxes from 1990 on. After Breen started a foreclosure, she agreed to an installment payment plan and then stopped paying. It is hardly surprising, they said, that someone who had not paid taxes for 10 years would lose her house. 
But Joseph E. Rauch, who is the former executive director of the Tax Collectors and Treasurers Association of New Jersey, noted in a letter to New Jersey tax collectors alerting them to the appellate court ruling, that Mrs. Fails had made three payments to Bankers Trust and Breen totaling $3,700 before Breen foreclosed on her property.
"Some of these lien buyers are unscrupulous," Mr. Rauch contended. "They want the money, and the property too.'
MR. RAUCH is now retired and living in Florida, but continues actively with his professional group and spurred it to file a friend-of-the court brief on the side of the taxpayers. He said municipal tax collectors are required by strict laws and professional standards to do everything possible to avoid foreclosure. 
About 50 of the first group of Jersey City taxpayers wound up making arrangements to settle their tax debts with the municipal tax collector, Mr. Rauch said in his letter -- after making one or more tax payments to Breen.
In the original taxpayer complaint, Breen was also said to have charged 18.25 percent annual interest, when the legal limit is 18 percent, and to have charged an illegal $25 bad check fee. Attorneys for the taxpayers acknowledged in their most recent brief, however, that Breen had dropped those practices after taxpayers complained.
Mr. Herrmann, whose firm filed formal notice two weeks ago that it would seek to have the case considered by the Supreme Court, the highest state court in New Jersey, argued that taxpayers under duress are still likely to get hoodwinked.
"The installment payment plans offered by Bankers Trust/Breen resemble the age-old scheme commonly known as the lay-away plan," he wrote in his brief for Judge Fuentes, "in which customers are enticed to make payments on a piece of merchandise they cannot afford to buy, inevitably miss a payment and then lose the merchandise and whatever payments they have made." 
The appellate court, which agreed with both sides' contention that the issue of privately administered installment plans was the key issue it had to decide, noted that taxpayers agreed to them voluntarily and said in its opinion that they had the legal right to do so.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The occupant of 150 Bergen Avenue, Jersey City, since 1977 lost ownership over delinquent taxes although she remains there as a renter. (Timothy Ivy for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); APPEALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); BONDS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MAYORS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); SECURITIZATION (64%); GOVERNORS (57%); LEGISLATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



721 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Measuring the Time Needed to Succeed

BYLINE:  By Anthony DePalma

 BODY:
THE secret to Jagdish (Jay) Patel's formidable stamina and reliability is a strong constitution, the ability to get by on six hours sleep and the jigger of scotch that he says he drinks every night before retiring. Clears the head, he says, and keeps a small businessman from "thinking too much" about his business. 
 As owner of Henry's Fine Foods, an old-fashioned small grocery store in Verona, N.J., Mr. Patel, 43, keeps a schedule thatwould seem punishing to anyone but another small businessman. His store is open every day of the week. And holidays too, including Christmas. He is even open during snowstorms, like the time last winter when Verona got hit with 29 inches. He slept in a cot in the backroom and opened the next morning, as usual, just after five. 
 Since Mr. Patel bought Henry's in 2000, not a single day has gone by without the front door opening and the cash register clanging. But that achievement pales besides that of his predecessors in the store. Henry Percevault opened the store on Bloomfield Avenue in 1930 and did business each and every day for years. His son Joseph took over and kept the streak going until his own retirement in 2000, when he sold the business to Mr. Patel.
In all, Henry's has opened every day since the beginning of 1930, a total of 73 years, or 26,843 days and counting. It is probably some kind of record, and if it's not, it should be.
Mr. Patel, who started working on his father's businesses in India when he was 16, expects to keep up his brutal schedule for 10 more years, by which time his three children will be on their own. Then, he said, he and his wife will "just take a rest," though he expects he will continue to get up at 4 a.m. out of habit. 
Someone once defined an entrepreneur as a person willing to work 16 hours a day so they don't have to work 8 hours a day for someone else. Managing time is one of the single most important determinants, besides money, of a new business's success.
"Time and time management are definitely on the list of success factors," for a small business, said Kris Solie-Johnson, president of the the American Institute of Small Business, a book company in Minneapolis that publishes "How to Set Up Your Own Small Business," an 850-page reference work carried by many local libraries. 
As the national economy has slowed, the number of people starting their own business has risen. According to the United States Small Business Administration, 550,100 new firms were opened in 2002. 
But it takes more than a clever idea or original concept to build a new business. Only about half of newly created firms survive at least four years, and miscalculating the amount of time required is to blame for many failures. 
"We always advise people that before going into business they should put together a business plan that gives a more realistic sense of what the real time commitment is going to be," said Miguel Centeno, a public affairs officer for the Small Business Administration office in New York. 
The Small Business Administration also runs a counseling service for entrepreneurs called the Service Corps of Retired Executives, or SCORE, (www.score.org) which can help answer questions and give advice. 
"Running a small business isn't hard," said Martin R. Lehman, a retired retailer with SCORE, "it's 25 hours a day."
For those who do not have the stamina for 80-hour weeks with or without scotch, Ms. Solie-Johnson offered a few time management hints. She uses an online payroll service that produces time savings enough to more than compensate for the small fee she pays. And she turns off her cellphone while driving the 45 minutes to and from work. 
Henry J. Coleman, owner of Alchemy Answers, an online service that provides information and advice for small businessmen (www.alchemyanswers.com) along with several retail businesses, said he learned some fundamental rules about time management after putting in 100-hour weeks trying to get a stock brokerage going. 
"The lesson I learned is that time management is not deciding what to do but what not to do," he said. "Once you do that, it's amazing how much time you create." 
Instead of putting together a to-do list, Mr. Coleman, who now runs five different companies, prepares a list of things that are not his responsibility. "I knew from Day 1 that my time would be finite," he said. "I refused to build an enterprise where the only way to grow was for me to put in one more hour. Once you start down that road, there is no end." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jagdish (Jay) Patel keeps Henry's Fine Foods in Verona, N.J., open every day of the year. His predecessors did the same. Henry's has been open every day since 1930. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); CHRISTMAS (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); WEATHER (69%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (65%); LIBRARIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF SMALL BUSINESS (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



722 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Cynthia Warner, Charles Dressel

 BODY:
Cynthia Longfellow Warner, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. David W. Warner of Kiawah Island, S.C., was married yesterday to Phillip Charles Dressel, the son of Mr. and Mrs. 
Phillip F. Dressel of St. Louis. The Rev. Benjamin J. Broadbent performed the ceremony at the First Congregational United Church of Christ in Colorado Springs.
 Mrs. Dressel, 36, is a fund-raiser in St. Louis and New York and a partner in Presents for Purpose in New York, which raises money for charities. She graduated from Simmons College and received a diploma in direct marketing from New York University. She is a board member of the Lymphoma Research Foundation in New York. Her father retired as the chief economic affairs officer of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which is based in Geneva. 
 Mr. Dressel, 35, is known as Charles. He graduated from Northwestern and is an owner of Mount Pleasant Winery in Augusta, Mo. His mother, Yvonne N. Dressel, is an interior designer in St. Louis. His father retired as the president of Consolidated Flavor Corporation, which supplied ingredients for the dairy and baking industries, and is chairman of the bridegroom's winery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CHARITIES (76%); RELIGION (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CANCER (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); LYMPHOMA (54%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LYMPHOMA RESEARCH FOUNDATION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: WARNER, CYNTHIA LONGFELLOW (CYNTHIA LONGFELLOW DRESSEL); DRESSEL, PHILLIP CHARLES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



723 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Affirmative Action, Productive Potential

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
THE Supreme Court's decisions on affirmative action brought a raft of social issues to the fore last week. But what of the economic consequences?
 By its nature, affirmative action takes innate attributes that may have nothing to do with ability and makes them part of an educational or professional selection process. An economist's knee-jerk reaction to any policy like this is usually that it will keep a market from matching buyers and sellers in the most efficient way. In other words, you had better have a darn good reason to do it. 
 An economist may also object to affirmative action because it gives current importance to past actions by people who, in most cases, are no longer around. Moreover, the benefits of affirmative action accrue to many people who did not directly feel the consequences of those actions. In a tremendous oversimplification, you might imagine Chevrolet sending out checks to its car owners today because of the exploding gas tanks in Ford Pintos 30 years ago.
But given what economists know about educational and professional attainment, this point of view is naive and incomplete. There are definite connections between generations; a parent or grandparent's success, material or otherwise, can directly influence a child's prospects in life. In addition, bad blood within communities can harm the smooth workings of a society, not to mention an economy.
The theory seems especially inadequate when faced with the reality. Careful studies of the economic effects of affirmative action have found mostly an upside.
Research conducted in the 1980's by Jonathan S. Leonard, chairman of the Haas Economic Analysis and Policy Group at the University of California at Berkeley, found that affirmative action had increased the employment of minorities and women in the 1970's.
In the 1990's, Harry J. Holzer, a professor of public policy at Georgetown University, and David B. Neumark, a professor of economics at Michigan State, looked at how workers in those demographic groups fared. Examining data from four major metropolitan areas, they found that companies with affirmative action policies employed blacks and Hispanics with slightly less education or credentials than those employed by companies without the policies. But the professors also discovered that the performance of minority workers hired under affirmative action was no worse than that of those who weren't.
At least indirectly, these studies give credence to an idea long held by supporters of affirmative action: that most standard measures of aptitude, like the College Board tests, are biased against minorities. In a market for labor based on these measures, minorities would be underemployed relative to their productive potential.
One might arguethat the labor market in the United States is much more subtle, taking account of many different markers of future success. Yet can it delve beyond all superficial traits to measure a person's true potential, without bias? If it could, there would be much less need for affirmative action.
IN fact, research by Professors Holzer and Neumark showed that affirmative action might help fine-tune the labor market. It appears to increase the use of recruitment and screening procedures for job applicants. It also leads to more hiring of "stigmatized" applicants, including those who have criminal records or have been on welfare, who may still be productive workers. In a 1999 working paper, the professors concluded that "the empirical case against affirmative action on the grounds of efficiency is weak at best."
They also noted that affirmative action could still have hurt some groups. Whites, for example, might have missed opportunities to work or learn as a result of affirmative action, as the plaintiffs in the Supreme Court cases argued. But if this occurred because colleges and companies had begun to value the potential of minorities and women more accurately -- even by giving them the benefit of the doubt -- then economic efficiency was probably served.
Because the second of the Supreme Court's decisions on affirmative action required that race, sex and ethnicity be considered in combination with other factors, the policies' effects are likely to be diluted. Upper- and middle-class blacks and Hispanics, for instance, may no longer receive special consideration when applying to universities or for jobs.
The full economic consequences will therefore depend on the answer to another question worthy of research: If there is indeed a bias against minorities in standard measures of educational and professional potential, does that bias disappear when an individual has had other advantages in life? If it does, the Supreme Court may have fine-tuned the labor market even more. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TRENDS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%) AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

PERSON: J WAYNE LEONARD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



724 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/2003 Chevrolet Corvette; 
At 50, You Should Look So Good

BYLINE:  By NORMAN MAYERSOHN

 BODY:
THE Chevrolet Corvette, a balm applied to countless egos bruised by midlife crisis, is celebrating its own 50th birthday this weekend in Nashville with caravans, parades, vintage-car displays and a rock concert. To reach the half-century mark, America's iconic sports car has persevered through trying times, starting with a so-what initial reception from buyers and, in later years, the upheaval created by antipollution regulations, all the while fending off rivals' repeated attempts to dethrone it.
 No matter that the Corvette never had to endure the creepy menu on some tropical island, or nerves boiled to the breaking point in an Amazon jungle. Chevy's two-seater is a bona fide survivor, having outlasted earnest contenders that were, at times, faster performing, better handling and lower priced. And although it represents the wane of the fifth-generation model, the 2003 Corvette is both tautly athletic on the street and thriving on the sales charts, posting its best-ever month in April (with a little help from manufacturer incentives, admittedly). 
 Enthusiasts with long memories might point to the popular Ford Thunderbird of 1955 as the first real threat to the Corvette's existence, but in fact by then General Motors executives themselves had already tried to vote their slow-selling model off the island. Plans to cancel the Corvette -- justified by fewer than 4,000 total sales in the first two model years -- were rescinded late in 1954 after Zora Arkus-Duntov, the car's swashbuckling guardian angel and its first chief engineer, risked his career with an impassioned memo arguing that a high-performance sports car would make all Chevrolets more appealing. (In a twist of fate, it is the revived two-seat Thunderbird that faces extinction, partly because of its undistinguished performance.)
Near-death experiences revisited Corvette in the 1960's as G.M. considered plans to make the car a four-seater; in 1975 when the output of the standard engine dipped to just 165 horsepower, as exhaust emissions and fuel economy took priority; and again a decade later when the fourth-generation car was so late going into production that the entire 1983 model year was skipped. A loyal following, which bought Corvettes in record numbers even when quality and performance were at their nadir, kept the Corvette alive. "When you're in love with a car, you tolerate a lot," said Martyn Schorr, the founderof Vette magazine and a former public relations representative for G.M.
A test drive of the 2003 model quickly reminded me of the formula that has sustained the Corvette in spite of those challenges. The willingness of a muscular V-8 engine, styling that pays homage to beloved predecessors (including scooped sides and a quartet of egg-shaped taillights) and the view forward from a two-place cockpit over a seemingly endless hood all register as hot buttons to the Corvette faithful, many of whom have aspired to ownership since grammar school.
Less desirable traits carry over, too: it is not an easy car to enter or exit, and the switches are too obviously lifted from the same parts bin that supplies econoboxes to rental fleets.
Commemorative-edition Corvettes haven't always been subtle, but the 50th Anniversary Edition is a model of restraint, painted a deep burgundy -- not gold, thank goodness -- with Champagne paint on the spoked wheels. Modest five-oh badges (especially in comparison with gaudy Indianapolis 500 Pace Car trim of the past) are affixed outside and embroidered into the seats and mats. The anniversary package is a $5,000 option and can be added to the hatchback ($44,435) or convertible ($51,335), though not to the higher-performance Z06 hardtop.
Although the first Corvettes took to the road with a drivetrain ill-matched to the car's dashing profile -- a barely warmed-over six-cylinder from the passenger-car line and a lowly two-speed automatic transmission -- the 50th Anniversary Edition suffers no such indignity. The standard engine is the LS1 V-8, successor to Chevy's original small-block design of 1955. It still uses pushrods, rather than overhead cams, to actuate the 16 valves -- 2 for each cylinder.
Forget what those specifications imply about outmoded technology: with 350 peak horsepower, and bountiful torque at low speeds, the Corvette is very forgiving if you're lazy with the six-speed manual gearshift. That's just as well, because the transmission, while much improved through the years, still doesn't feel like pulling a hot knife through butter.
If you can live without the anniversary reminders and whatever dubious extra value the markings might command from future collectors, there's the 405-horsepower Z06 hardtop, too.
Though I am as susceptible to the charms of a Corvette as any red-blooded American, Chevrolet's sweetheart hasn't always been a favorite in my driveway. Often, it seemed too much of a chore to enjoy on anything but smooth country roads far from city traffic. The current generation -- dating to 1997 -- is a pleasant surprise, however.
The incessant rattles of earlier models were almost entirely absent in the 2003 test car, partly because of vastly improved assembly quality and somewhat attributable to a ride that is no longer slam-bang harsh. Anniversary models are equipped with G.M.'s Magnetic Selective Ride Control, a variable-rate suspension system that adjusts the stiffness by using the action of electromagnets on iron particles suspended in fluid within the shock absorbers.
The suspension computer can fine-tune the system to driving conditions and road surfaces 250 times a second. The driver can toggle between touring mode (for a better ride) and sport mode (for optimum handling) when the desire strikes.
Low production and a legion of forgiving owners make the Corvette an ideal platform to experiment with new technologies and features like the heads-up display, an optional readout of essential information projected in front of the driver.
Chevrolet's product planners have done an effective job of carving out a niche for Corvette. It offers V-8 performance well in excess of two-seaters like the Audi TT and BMW Z4 (though at a somewhat higher price), yet undercuts the cost of less well-rounded, more powerful offerings like the Dodge Viper SRT-10. This clever positioning encourages buyers to base their choice on emotional issues, where Corvette's legacy and race-bred image stand out.
The next-generation Corvette will make its debut at the Detroit auto show next January and arrive in showrooms later next year as a 2005 model. (The '04 Corvette will be the last of the current generation.) Recent history suggests that the changes will not be radical, which is appropriate considering the performance and refinement of the 2003 model. "For the first time, the outgoing car is not an anachronism," said Jerry Burton, editorial director of Corvette Quarterly and author of a new biography of Arkus-Duntov. "You can't help but respect it."

INSIDE TRACK: A half-century old, but forever young.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Five generations of Corvettes, clockwise from front: 2003 50th Anniversary Edition; 1960 roadster; '64 Sting Ray convertible; '96 Grand Sport; '73 Stingray convertible. (pg. 1); The late Zora Arkus-Duntov, the Corvette's guardian angel, with a '66. (pg. 4) Chart: "A Sports Car Sampler" lists features and specifications for selected sports cars. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); POP & ROCK (72%); EMISSIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



725 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Psst! Want to See the Next 'Vette? 

BYLINE:  By NORMAN MAYERSOHN

 BODY:
AS the current Corvette nears the end of its production cycle, speculation about its successor is approaching the roar of an engine at the red line. Industry sleuths are digging for clues, enthusiasts are swapping rumors and magazines are promising full disclosure.
 The fifth-generation car (known to enthusiasts as C5) is due for a makeover, having been introduced for 1997. Dave Hill, vehicle line executive for Corvette, said in a telephone interview that the next car, C6, would make its debut in January at the Detroit auto show and go on sale next summer as a 2005 model. 
Some details are already in the public domain, thanks to the impending introduction of the Cadillac XLR, a two-seat luxury sports car that shares its structure -- and its assembly plant in Bowling Green, Ky. -- with Corvette.
 The car that is suggested from the mix of educated guesses, insider tips, clandestine spy photos and artists' drawings is not a great departure from today's. Forget about the grapevine of years past, when there were rumors of midengine layouts and four seats. Fixed headlamps, rather than the pop-ups used since 1963, will be among the significant changes, and greater definition is expected in the curves of the fenders and side vents.
 History suggests that horsepower (and, quite likely, engine size) will increase with the help of racetrack innovations. That doesn't necessarily mean gas mileage will suffer, given whispers that G.M. may give the engine displacement-on-demand technology, which deactivates cylinders when they are not needed, and variable valve timing, which optimizes both performance and economy.
The XLR's specifications sheet reveals that the wheelbase of the shared chassis will be 105.7 inches, slightly more than an inch longer than C5's, though overall length is said to shrink in an effort to increase the Corvette's appeal in Europe. 
Mr. Hill, who spent 27 years at Cadillac before becoming chief Corvette engineer, insists that the XLR won't steal sales from Chevrolet's halo car, but will attract its own following. The Corvette, for instance, will not share the XLR's folding metal hardtop. "The two have almost nothing to do with each other," he said. "It's not a zero-sum game."
 NORMAN MAYERSOHN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Artist's unofficial sketch of '05 Corvette. (Mark Stehrenberger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); SPORTS CARS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ESPIONAGE (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOWLING GREEN, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



726 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS; 
You Might Want to Put Your Credit to the Test

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
RECENTLY engaged and hoping to buy a house, Amy Mitchell paid $12.95 last February to view her credit score, that important single number that summarizes her overall creditworthiness. She then played with her score: What would it be if she paid off all her credit card balances each month, if she applied for an auto loan, or if she declared personal bankruptcy?
 Ms. Mitchell, 34, a management consultant in San Francisco, was trying a new online simulator that allows consumers to see how making certain financial choices, like applying for a mortgage or even closing a credit card account, could alter their credit scores. There are two available right now -- one from the Fair Isaac Corporation of San Rafael, Calif., whose FICO credit scores are used most often by lenders, and another from CreditXpert of Towson, Md., a company that designs credit management tools. 
 The simulators are an important addition to the credit industry. Only a few years ago the credit-rating agencies kept credit scores secret from consumers. Credit experts say these tools will help people make better decisions and give them more control over their finances. That could be especially helpful as the home-buying season moves into full swing and as more people take advantage of low interest rates to refinance mortgages. 
"People don't have to feel that they're at the mercy of financial services providers; they can change their financial lives," said Ms. Mitchell, who recently bought a home in Orinda, Calif., a San Francisco suburb, with her fiance, William Weber, 35, a political consultant.
By working with the simulator, Ms. Mitchell said she learned that paring down her credit card debt would raise her credit score significantly. That may help her if she ever needs to borrow money to fix up or furnish her home, or even refinance the mortgage. "I had a plan for paying off my debt, and this sort of reaffirmed my decision to do that," she said.
The credit simulators are also being used by credit-reporting bureaus and credit counseling agencies as an education tool. And some lenders and brokers are using the programs to distinguish themselves from their competitors in counseling prospective borrowers. 
Credit scores have always stumped consumers. Even people who know their FICO scores often don't understand the logic behind them. (They range from 300 to 850, and the higher the number the better.) A person's credit score is based -- in decreasing order of importance -- on the person's payment record, how much is owed, how long the person has used credit, the characteristics of the newest credit and the types of credit being used. Owning too many credit cards often hurts a score, but so does owning too few. 
Credit simulators help demystify the scores. Ms. Mitchell used the one from myFICO, Fair Isaac's consumer division.
Introduced a year ago, the FICO Score Simulator offers six kinds of financial conjectures. For example, customers may hypothetically transfer credit card balances, push the spending limits on their credit cards or pay bills on time for the next month, three months or six months. They may even pretend to miss a few payments. (By the way, if your score is now 707, and you missed payments this month on all accounts on which a payment is due, your score would drop to the range of 582 to 632. But if, instead of missing the payments, you paid all your bills on time for the next month, your score could increase to 727.)
Consumers can use the score simulator for 30 days through two packages that can be bought on www.myfico.com (click on "products"). For $39.95, consumers get credit information from the three major credit-reporting bureaus -- TransUnion, Experian or Equifax -- plus their FICO score, an analysis of the score and use of the FICO score simulator. For $12.95, they get the FICO score plus a credit profile from one bureau and the use of the simulator.
The six options in the FICO simulator correspond to customers' most common concerns, according to myFICO, but some people may want more choices. For instance, the simulator cannot allow more than one hypothetical move at a time.
For a larger selection of financial situations, there is the What-If Simulator from CreditXpert. Introduced in February, this simulator can also advise consumers on how to achieve goals like refinancing or simply improving their scores. Unlike the FICO Score Simulator, it allows customers to see how multiple actions would affect their scores. 
The What-If Simulator is not available directly from CreditXpert but can be bought at varying prices from some lenders, credit reporting agencies and other sellers of credit reports. A list of some sellers is at www.creditxpert.com (on the "consumers" page). Among the brokers that offer it are 1st Republic Mortgage Bankers in Floral Park, N.Y., and Capitol Mortgage Finance in Columbia, Md. It is available for $9.95 from Intersections in Chantilly, Va., which sells credit reports and privacy protection services; Intersections calls it the Credit Analyzer.
Christos Balis, 37, a chiropractor in Herndon, Va., recently used the What-If Simulator to look at the cumulative effect on his credit score of refinancing his mortgage, paying $3,000 on one of his credit cards and taking out a loan for some home renovations.
He was simulating a plan that he and his wife, Tamara, 32, a director at a Montessori nursery school, were considering to help them finance a $10,000 remodeling of their kitchen.
Dr. Balis said he learned that his credit score would gain twice as many points if he made a sizable payment on one particular credit card than it would if he made a comparable payment on another card. (He was closer to the credit limit on the first card.) He also found that a loan to remodel the kitchen would have little effect on his score. "That actually was news to me," he said. "It gave me a sense of security."
He said that before using the simulator, he was more inclined to spend his and his wife's savings on the kitchen. Now they are more likely to apply for a loan, he said, and to put some savings toward the credit card as suggested by the simulator.
LENDERS generally do not use CreditXpert's scores to make their lending decisions. But CreditXpert said the scores use the same principles as the FICO scores; they were developed when Fair Isaac still withheld its scores from consumers.
"The fundamental principles behind credit scoring are the same; it's just a matter of how you put the pieces together," said David G. Chung, CreditXpert's interim president and vice president for business development. "The things that will move you up our scale will move you up somebody else's scale."
Because a person's credit profile can change constantly, both myFICO and CreditXpert say that the actual score may not increase or decrease by the exact number of points calculated by the simulators. But it should certainly move in the expected direction, they said, and often by roughly the same number of points.
The companies say that just as high school students routinely take practicetests to raise their College Board test scores, so, too, can consumers use simulators to help raise credit scores. That would give people more control over their credit -- and what they pay for it -- the companies said. 
"Consumers by and large are very aware of credit reports; they are now getting to have awareness of how to improve their credit scores," said Sue A. Simon, the vice president of myFICO. "It's a whole different ballgame when you realize it can save you $300 a month on your mortgage payment."

What Makes a Credit Score Rise or Fall?
YOUR financial decisions can affect your credit score in surprising ways. Two credit-scoring simulators can help consumers understand the potential impact.
The Fair Isaac Corporation, which puts out the industry-standard FICO scores, offers the myFICO simulator. A consumer with a score of 707 (considered good) and three credit cards would be likely to add or lose points from his score by making various financial moves. Following are some examples:
* By making timely payments on all his accounts over the next month or by paying off a third of the balance on his cards, he could add as many as 20 points.
* By failing to make this month's payments on his loans, he could lose 75 to 125 points.
* By using all of the credit available on his three credit cards, he could lose 20 to 70 points.
* By getting a fourth card, depending on the status of his other debts, he could add or lose up to 10 points.
* By consolidating his credit card debt into a new card, also depending on other debts, he could add or lose 15 points.
The other simulator, the What-If, comes from CreditXpert, which designs credit management tools and puts out its own, similar credit score. A consumer with a score of 727 points (also considered good) would be likely to have her score change in the following ways:
* Every time she simply applied for a loan, whether a credit card, home mortgage or auto loan, she would lose five points. (An active appetite for credit, credit experts note, is considered a bad sign. For one thing, taking on new loans may make borrowers less likely to repay their current debts.)
* By getting a mortgage, she would lose two points.
* By getting an auto loan or a new credit card (assuming that she already has several cards) she would lose three points.
* If her new credit card had a credit limit of $20,000 or more, she would lose four points, instead of three. (For every $10,000 added to the limit, the score drops a point.)
* By simultaneously getting a new mortgage, auto loan and credit card, she would lose seven or eight points. JENNIFER BAYOT

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christos and Tamara Balis recently used a credit-rating simulator to consider the implications of borrowing to pay for remodeling the kitchen of their home in Herndon, Va. (Linda Spillers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (75%); TRENDS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; PERSONAL FINANCE; REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (94%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (94%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (71%); VIRGINIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



727 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Natural Food Stores Pursue Organic Seals of Approval

BYLINE:  By DENNIS BLANK

 BODY:
AS far as Joe T. Flueckiger Jr. is concerned, the exhaustive inspection and voluminous review of paperwork needed to get organic certification for the natural-food store he manages was well worth it.
 "This speaks volumes for the commitment we have made to organic foods," said Mr. Flueckiger, the store team leader for a Whole Foods Market in Baltimore. "Retailers are going to benefit tremendously because of the assurances we are giving our customers." 
 In early June, Whole Foods Market Inc. of Austin, Tex. -- the nation's largest chain of organic-food supermarkets, with sales of $2.7 billion last year -- became the first major grocery chain in the nation to receive independent organic certification for every one of its stores, 140 in all.
"I see it more as investment spending in the brand consistent with what Whole Foods' strategy has been: to make a national brand consistent with its mission statement," said Andrew Wolf, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets. "It will bring more shoppers into the store." 
The certification is intended to assure consumers that produce, meats and other foods that are sold as organic -- free of conventional pesticides or fertilizers, antibiotics or growth hormones -- are not mixed with nonorganic foods when processed, shipped or stored. Inspectors also check whether storage areas are free of pesticides that might find their way into organic foods.
Until recently, only farmers and processors had sought organic certification, which involves a review of purchasing and shipping documents and inspection of fields, crops and processing plants. The cost of certification accounts for part of the higher prices of organic food.
The private companies that certify the supermarkets -- Quality Assurance International of San Diego and Scientific Certification Systems of Emeryville, Calif. -- say their organic seals of approval generally cost $1,000 to $2,000 a store. Certification of stores is not required by the federal standards for organic food that were introduced last fall, unless the stores were involved in processing. If stores choose certification, however, they must separate organic foods from conventional ones, especially in the produce area. 
Some retailers' interest in certification appears to reflect a sort of competitive arms race among some grocers.
"My gut feeling is they are trying to get one foot up on the competitors to instill consumer confidence," said Ray Green, director of the organic program of the California Department of Food and Agriculture. Last year, California became the first state to require registration of retail stores selling organic products.
Whole Foods' main competitor, Wild Oats Markets, based in Boulder, Colo., which has 101 stores and had almost $1 billion in sales last year, said that it was now considering pursuing organic certification of its coffee and juice bars. Some smaller independent health food stores are also lining up, and more than a dozen have been certified.
Many stores are not pursing certification, particularly traditional supermarket chains that sell nonorganic as well as organic produce, meats and other foods.
"We are not planning on becoming certified, but our practice is to buy from growers and brokers who are certified," said Nicole Townsend, a spokeswoman for Raley's, a 134-store, traditional supermarket chainbased in West Sacramento, Calif. "We take great steps in the produce department to separate organic from nonorganic so they are not commingling, and we also do this in our distribution center."
But chains like Whole Foods that specialize in organic products want their customers to know that their organic peaches, say, or organic pot roasts are as organic in the store as they were on the farm.
Ellen P. Holton, the marketing director of Quality Assurance, said a team of inspectors needed more than 10 weeks to certify all of Whole Foods' stores in the United States and Canada.
She said the voluntary certification process "exponentially raises the confidence level of even more organic consumers."
Jeff Stephens, a spokesman for Scientific Certification, said, "The primary motivating factors are a good-faith effort to meet the intention of the U.S.D.A.'s National Organic Program, and to demonstrate to their customers they are doing more than is required by law."
The Organic Trade Association, based in Greenfield, Mass., is teaching its' members' workers and store managers how to keep organic foods free of contaminants. More than 450 stores have already participated. "It is more of a discipline in record keeping, and many of the stores have implemented that out of common sense," said David Gagnon, the group's director of operation.
Certification by consultants is not limited to organic supermarkets. Safeway hired Quality Assurance four years ago to certify its milling operations that produce the chain's Select brand of organic breads.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a Whole Foods Market in Baltimore, organic and conventional produce are sold in separate bins. Whole Foods now has independent organic certification for all its stores. (Steve Ruark for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH FOOD STORES (94%); ORGANIC FOODS (92%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BRANDING (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (73%); PESTICIDES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); FERTILIZERS (66%); ANTIBIOTICS (51%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; FOOD AND COOKING 

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (84%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (55%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (55%); SCIENTIFIC CERTIFICATION SYSTEMS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (WFMI) 

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (84%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS541380 TESTING LABORATORIES (53%); SIC8734 TESTING LABORATORIES (53%) SIC5499 MISC. FOOD STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



728 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2817 words

HEADLINE: Who's Minding the Drugstore? 

BYLINE:  By MELODY PETERSEN

 BODY:
FEDERAL regulators decided last year that a national television commercial promoting a drug called Prevacid was misleading viewers by failing to make clear that the medicine was for serious heartburn problems and not for occasional indigestion.
 But the letter that regulators wrote to Tap Pharmaceutical Products, the maker of Prevacid, demanding that the ads be stopped, sat for 78 days in the offices of Daniel E. Troy, the chief counsel of the Food and Drug Administration, while millions of viewers continued to see the commercials. After the letter was finally sent, the company pulled the ads and refashioned them to address the F.D.A.'s grievance. 
 Government auditors warned regulators about such delays last fall, and the F.D.A. promised to do better. But now, delays are not the problem. Far fewer actions themselves are being taken, even though industry critics say they continue to see promotions that illegally market unapproved uses of a drug, understate risks, overstate benefits or make claims not backed up by studies, in an industry that is spending more than ever to promote its products. 
Until mid-June, when a reporter called to ask about the decline in enforcement actions, the F.D.A. had sent only four such regulatory letters this year. After that call, the agency issued four more letters. At that rate, it is now sending an average of fewer than two letters a month on promotions it says are illegal. That is down from about 10 letters a month, on average, from 1997 to 2000.
Critics, including members of Congress, former F.D.A. officials, lawyers, doctors and consumer groups, say they see a clear shift in how the agency is performing one of its main functions: policing the marketing of drugs, food and medical devices. The agency has become willing to let some problems slip by, these critics say, and to allow the companies it regulates to go further with their marketing claims.
"The core of the agency's mission has always been protecting the public's health," said William B. Schultz, a lawyer who was the F.D.A.'s deputy commissioner for policy from 1994 to 1998. "Now the agency is thinking about allowing other considerations that would undermine that."
Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the F.D.A. commissioner, defended his agency's efforts, saying in an interview that the decline in regulatory letters had begun in the Clinton administration and that it should not be taken to mean the agency had become less aggressive in enforcing drug marketing laws and regulations.
"We will be enforcing the law on misleading promotion," said Dr. McClellan, who took office eight months ago. "The F.D.A. does not let important public health problems slide."
Indeed, Dr. McClellan said that regulators were now trying to work more with drug companies before advertisements run to try to prevent misleading ads. He also said the F.D.A.'s enforcement decisions were affected in part by the outcome of several court cases in which the agency was found to have gone too far in trying to rein in corporate promotion of regulated products.
Dr. McClellan said the agency had decided that the lawyers in Mr. Troy's office should review each letter before it was sent to make sure it could withstand a court challenge by the drug company.
Mr. Schultz and others, however, say they are especially worried about a move by Mr. Troy last year to open up the agency's regulations to a wide-ranging review. The aim, the regulators say, was to ensure that the rules did not violate the First Amendment by going too far in restricting a company's right to tell the public about its products. Dozens of drug makers, food companies and businesses that market dietary supplements have provided written suggestions to the F.D.A. on how the rules should be rewritten so that they can more easily promote their products.
IN a 167-page response prepared by Pfizer, for example, the company said the F.D.A's current rules on prescription drug promotion had "led to a regime where manufacturers are precluded from using advertising for its intended purpose."
Pfizer's lawyers continued: "One has only to watch a laundry detergent ad to realize that the vendor does not have to disclose the stains that the detergent cannot remove in addition to the ones that it can." 
The review has delighted Mr. Troy's former clients. Before joining the F.D.A. in 2001, Mr. Troy was a private lawyer and prominent advocate of commercial free speech for clients that included tobacco and pharmaceutical companies. He brought two significant cases in which he argued that the F.D.A. had overstepped constitutional law.
In one, filed by the Washington Legal Foundation, a nonprofit conservative group, Mr. Troy contended that regulators were violating the First Amendment as they tried to prevent drug companies from telling doctors how their medicines could be used for conditions the drugs were not approved to treat.
Federal law states that drug companies cannot promote their products for unapproved uses. The approval process ensures that drug companies perform extensive studies to show their products are safe and effective for a condition before that use is promoted to the public.
But lawsuits like the one brought by Mr. Troy and the Washington Legal Foundation, which won a partial victory in court, have created gray areas in the rules. Since that lawsuit, for example, the agency has generally been allowing drug companies to distribute copies of published studies to doctors on the effectiveness of a drug in a certain area, even though those studies may include only small numbers of patients. The danger, according to critics of the practice, is that other studies, of which doctors might be unaware, could have found that the medicine did not work for that condition.
The agency said Mr. Troy declined to be interviewed for this article.
Peter Barton Hutt, a lawyer for food, pharmaceutical and other industries regulated by the F.D.A., said Mr. Troy was doing "superbly" in his job. 
Mr. Hutt, who was the F.D.A.'s chief counsel in the Nixon administration, said he believed that the agency had a new policy, although unwritten, to limit its enforcement actions so as to minimize the risk that a court could find that it had violated the First Amendment. "Clearly, their policy now is to apply the First Amendment," he said.
One of Mr. Hutt's clients, the Grocery Manufacturers of America, was the first to benefit from Mr. Troy's opening of regulations to a review.
In December, the F.D.A. took Mr. Hutt's advice, detailed in a 57-page submission, and changed guidelines to make it easier for food companies to make health claims about their products. Rather than requiring that a claim be backed by "significant scientific evidence," the F.D.A. will now allow qualified claims in which the science is still uncertain but the evidence supporting a claim outweighs the evidence opposing it.
Mr. Hutt used the example of omega-3 fatty acids, found in fish. Studies have shown that consuming these fatty acids may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease, though the evidence is not conclusive.
Dr. McClellan said the new food labeling guidelines would help consumers get more information about possible health benefits of certain products even though the science was not settled. "We want to see more of that type of information" on food labels, he said.
BUT some critics say that consumers are in danger of being misled by the new labels.
"The claims on labels that consumers see will no longer be as reliable," said Bruce Silverglade, director of legal affairs at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a nonprofit consumer group in Washington. "The consumer is the loser."
Mr. Silverglade noted that there had once been promising evidence that beta carotene supplements might reduce the risk of cancer. Studies in 1996, however, showed that beta carotene appeared to increase the risk of lung cancer in smokers.
Some lawyers for pharmaceutical companies say they expect the F.D.A. to make changes soon in drug promotion rules.
James M. Beck, a lawyer who represents pharmaceutical companies at Dechert, a law firm in Philadelphia, said he believed the F.D.A. had little choice but to open up its regulations to review because of several court cases it had lost. Last year, for example, the Supreme Court ruled that the First Amendment prevented the F.D.A. from stopping a pharmacy from advertising drugs it had made itself in a practice called compounding. The case was originally brought by the Western States Medical Center, a compounding pharmacy in Las Vegas.
"The decision is emboldening some people," Mr. Beck said. At a recent conference, he said he had been struck by how forthcoming some pharmaceutical executives had been in discussing the methods they were using to market products for unapproved uses.
Indeed, it is not hard to find companies spreading the word about ways their drugs can be used that have not been approved by the F.D.A.
Cephalon, a company in West Chester, Pa., recently paid for video and audio segments for use in newscasts to detail how its drug Provigil can be used to treat attention deficit disorder in children and depression in adults. The drug is approved to treat excessive daytime sleepiness associated with narcolepsy. The segments were distributed to hundreds of television and radio stations around the country.
"The advantage of Provigil over other drugs is that it will treat the symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder with fewer side effects," says a doctor in the video who was involved in a clinical trial of the drug. "This is all very exciting news for parents of children with A.D.H.D."
In an audio format distributed to radio stations, the announcer, sounding like a news anchor, says, "Depression is a serious illness, affecting more than 10 million Americans."
She adds that preliminary research data indicates that "Provigil, taken along with the antidepressants Paxil and Prozac, helped patients almost immediately."
Robert W. Grupp, a spokesman for Cephalon, said both segments were produced after scientists presented results from Provigil studies at a medical meeting. He said the company had paid for the videos to tell the public about important new scientific information concerning Provigil, and not to promote the drug.
"We can't promote off-label," he said. "We're very careful not to do that."
He said that about 75 percent of Provigil's sales were for unapproved uses.
PRODUCERS of videos like those made for Cephalon say that more local television stations have been incorporating them into their newscasts because of limited budgets in the sluggish economy.
Mr. Grupp said 2.5 million viewers had seen the videos about Provigil and attention deficit disorder -- a number the company considered small.
The drug companies have long used such video new releases. After the Senate challenged the practice in hearings in 1990, the F.D.A. told the drug companies that they should send a copy of each video news release to the agency for review, although the productions did not have to be approved in advance.
Brad Stone, a spokesman for the F.D.A., said the agency policy has not changed since then. Any video news release "that deals with the promotion of a drug would be subject to our jurisdiction," he said. "If we saw something that we thought was violative, we would take action."
He said he could not comment on Cephalon's videos specifically. 
Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, said the F.D.A. could move drug regulation back 40 years, to a time when companies did not have to prove the effectiveness of the products they advertised, if it began allowing the promotion of unapproved uses.
Such a change, he said, "would be a terrible, terrible result that would lead to a lot of serious health risks."
But the drug industry and its lawyers say doctors need to know information about drugs that may be important for their patients.
Dr. McClellan said the F.D.A. had no plans to give the companies wide leeway to promote their products for unapproved uses. "We don't condone off-label promotion," he said.
He said, however, that he thought television ads used by the drug companies served a good purpose. They "help people who need treatment" by prompting them to see a doctor, he said.
The pharmaceutical industry spent $2.6 billion on consumer ads last year in the United States -- more than double the amount spent in 1998, according to TNS Media Intelligence/CMR, which monitors advertising spending. 
But while the F.D.A. sent 158 regulatory letters in 1998 to companies about ads the agency found to be false or misleading, it sent only 26 last year.
Dr. Sidney Wolfe, director of the health research group at Public Citizen, the watchdog organization founded by Ralph Nader, said he was troubled by the decline in letters that began in 1999. "Regulation by the F.D.A. was already diminishing then," he said. But he called the more recent decline "really frightful." 
"Ads are running now that would not be allowed to run in 1998," Dr. Wolfe said. "The amount of damage done to consumers by these false and misleading ads is enormous."
Representative Waxman wrote to the agency last fall, stating that while the drop in enforcement actions "may be a welcome development for the drug industry," it "poses serious dangers to public health."
The number of complaints to the F.D.A. about false and misleading drug ads has not declined, Mr. Waxman said, even though the agency's drug marketing enforcement division -- which has 40 workers, 10 more than in 2000 -- has been taking far fewer actions against the companies. He said that from 1999 to 2001, the F.D.A. sent one warning letter for every 2.8 complaints about false advertising. But in the first six months of 2002, he said, it sent one letter for every 13.5 complaints.
Dr. Michael Wilkes, vice dean for education at the School of Medicine at the University of California at Davis, has studied prescription drug advertisements and said he had found more problems recently. The companies, he said, seem "willing to push the limits a bit."
"The current administration is not going to step in unless there are gross violations," he said. "The word has gotten out."
At Representative Waxman's request, Dr. Wilkes and other experts last fall reviewed some television ads and found dozens of problems.
For example, a commercial for Ambien, a sleeping pill that is a controlled substance because of its potential for abuse, includes a warning that states, "People who abuse sleep aids may develop addiction."
Dr. Wilkes said the warning was misleading because many viewers do not believe they will ever misuse pills. Anyone, he said, can develop an addiction.
Leslie Hare, a spokeswoman for the manufacturer, Sanofi-Synthelabo, said that that ad is no longer running for Ambien, although the F.D.A. had reviewed it. 
The F.D.A. has strengthened the rules for one product area: dietary supplements. After ephedra was cited in the death of Steve Bechler, a Baltimore Orioles pitcher, Dr. McClellan announced new rules to require that dietary supplements not be contaminated in manufacturing and be accurately labeled to reflect their ingredients. The changes, however, did nothing to tell consumers whether the supplements might be dangerous or if they worked.
THE F.D.A. has pleased drug makers on a different front, by announcing several efforts to help speed new medicines to market. Dr. McClellan said last week in a speech at a biotechnology industry conference that the agency was committed to reducing by at least 10 percent the total time it took regulators to review an experimental drug.
"Based on published estimates, a 10 percent reduction in regulatory review time reduces the total investment required to develop a new medication by over $12 million," Dr. McClellan said in the speech. "By shifting down the time and cost of developing new medications, patients will benefit from earlier and greater access to more safe and effective medications."
Dr. Len Lichtenfeld, deputy chief medical officer at the American Cancer Society, said he welcomed the change, as long as the agency is given the resources to do the faster reviews properly. 
"We need to look at the process carefully to make sure that drugs that are clearly beneficial to patients are not held up," he said.
But some consumer groups have begun to worry that the faster reviews could result in the approval of medicines that carry dangerous side effects or do not work.
Larry D. Sasich, a pharmacist and research analyst at Public Citizen, pointed to the F.D.A.'s recent approval of Iressa, a lung cancer drug. The agency approved Iressa in May even though the drug shrank tumors in just 10 percent of patients and has been linked to the deaths of more than 200 patients in Japan. 
"We're starting to get really concerned about what is happening at the F.D.A.," Mr. Sasich said. "Drugs are only as good as the regulators."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Watchdog At Bay -- It took months for the Food and Drug Administration to deliver a letter demanding a halt to ads for Prevacid. While the F.D.A. has said it will end such delays, it is writing fewer such letters to manufacturers. (pg. 1); Representative Henry A. Waxman recently sought comment on drug ads, including this one for Ambien. The remarks were posted on a Web site.; Representative Waxman says that an easing of enforcement by the F.D.A., while beneficial to drug makers, is a danger to public health. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 12) Chart: "Spending Rises, Warnings Wane"Graph tracks spending on prescription drug direct-to-consumer advertising in the United States from 1998-2003. (2003 is first quarter only) Graph tracks letters sent from 1997-2003 by the Food and Drug Administration to warn drug companies that their product promotions are false or misleading. (2003 numbers are through Friday) (Sources: TNS Media Intelligence/CMR; F.D.A.'s Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising and Communications)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); OFF LABEL DRUG USE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LAWYERS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%) DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: TAKEDA AMERICA HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%) TAP PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541712 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE PHYSICAL, ENGINEERING & LIFE SCIENCES (EXCEPT BIOTECHNOLOGY) (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%)

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



729 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Slowing Down the Treadmill, With Help

BYLINE:  By LAURA KOSS-FEDER

 BODY:
ANNICK BAUDOT-MOHAGEG says she often had trouble saying no to her bosses and colleagues at Adobe Systems, which is probably why her workweek typically averaged 45 to 50 hours. Then her company cut its work force, and Ms. Baudot-Mohageg, a senior marketing manager, found herself feeling even more overworked, with little energy left for her husband, Michael, and son, Lucas.
 That was more than a year ago. She says she is feeling much less frazzled these days, having participated in the last year in a mentoring program sponsored by Adobe, which is based in San Jose, Calif. The program -- intended, among other things, to help better budget time -- included monthly workshops with other women executives and one-on-one meetings with her own mentor from outside Adobe. 
 Ms. Baudot-Mohageg, 40, says she has learned to focus on details of projects that are relevant only to her, rather than trying to do other people's work for them, and to conduct staff meetings more efficiently. As a result, she estimates, her productivity has increased by about 50 percent. She says she also has more time to spend with her family. "Mentoring helped me set objectives in my life," she said. 
Thirty-five executive women have participated in the Adobe program since its inception four years ago, according to Angela Szymusiak, a human resources manager at the company. Adobe does not have specific data on the results. But in informal surveys, the participants said -- and their superiors agreed -- that they were more productive, better able to organize their assignments and more confident as decision makers, she said.
Recognizing the dueling demands on working women, and looking to improve productivity, more companies have been offering mentoring programs like the one sponsored by Adobe, or modifying their executive coaching programs to better suit the needs of women who are managers. Some other companies that have adopted mentoring or coaching programs include Texas Instruments, Verizon Communications and Marriott International.
Many women must care for children or aging parents, or both, sometimes in addition to increased responsibilities at work because of job cuts. Many of those cuts occurred after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, put new strain on a sluggish economy.
FORTY-FOUR percent of professional women surveyed recently said they have felt more stress at home and on the job since 9/11, and about 60 percent said they had little emotional strength left for life outside the office. The survey, of 561 women, was conducted by WorldWIT, an online networking organization of professional women in technology and business, and GLS Consulting of Brookline, Mass.; the results were released last winter.
Liz Ryan, WorldWIT's founder and chief executive, said she was concerned that "this increased level of stress could translate into lost productivity in the workplace if they are just too tired, distracted and unenthusiastic about their jobs."
Jean M. Otte, the founder and president of Women Unlimited in Manhattan, a company that provides leadership development programs for women, agreed. "These professional women are not going to be effective leaders if they keep running like hamsters on a wheel; they're either going to the kids' soccer matches, sending their bosses e-mails at midnight or thinking about doing one or the other," she said. Ms. Otte's company creates programs, including mentoring, at large companies like Adobe. Over the past year, she said, her client list has grown by 30 percent.
Companies in general are devoting larger portions of their human resources budgets to hiring professional coaches -- an estimated 25 percent more than they did five years ago, according to Gail E. Aldrich, the senior vice president for member services at the Society for Human Resource Management in Alexandria, Va.
At the financial services firm Ernst & Young, executive women who serve clients participate in the Women's Partner Leadership Alliance and Network, a six-year-old company program that includes mentoring and coaching. The company is also the host for discussion groups. Deborah K. Holmes, who oversees the program and is the director of Ernst & Young's Center for the New Workforce, which is dedicated to advancing the careers of women in the firm, estimates that the initiatives help save the company about $12 million annually by reducing turnover.
Carolyn Libretti, 37, a senior manager in the international tax services department at Ernst & Young in Manhattan, said she certainly found them useful. Last year, she said, she met with a coach twice a month, from March through December, to help her manage her time while she worked on a major tax restructuring project for a client. She had to coordinate the work of more than 100 employees in 42 countries, and she often put in 14-hour days. 
"I learned how to delegate more, so that I didn't feel like I had to do it all myself," she said of the coaching sessions. "And I learned how to look outside of the office and take part in more of my personal interests, which just made me feel better." She has managed to cut her workweek by five or six hours, she added, and even enroll in an interior-design certification program outside the office. "I actually became more focused at work because of all this," she said.
Ms. Baudot-Mohageg, the executive from Adobe, says that because the company's mentoring program has made her more efficient on the job, she now has more time and energy to do the things she enjoys outside the office. She says she spends about an hour a week assisting in the physical education class of her son, Lucas, who is 8. And at the end of the day, she said, "instead of just watching television and vegging after work because I was so wiped out, I now have the energy to communicate in a meaningful, relaxed waywith my husband and son."
But what about women whose companies do not provide coaching or mentoring services? Experts suggest seeking out mentors in their own companies or even hiring professional coaches themselves. The International Coach Federation, a professional group based in Washington (www.coachfederation.org), offers a free referral service.
Women can also join or create their own networking groups. Kim Merkin, 39, of Lafayette, Calif., began a group called EBUG, or East Bay United Gals, with four friends about a year ago. Ms. Merkin, an executive at a trade show exhibit company, said long hours on the job had given her little time to socialize, and she often felt isolated. 
The group, described by Ms. Merkin as "the book club without the books," now has 44 members in different professions who meet every other month in someone's home after work. Each gathering has a theme.
"We've had a chocolate party one time, a picnic another time, and a clay-sculpting party on another occasion," Ms. Merkin said. "When I have a really long day, this gives me something special to look forward to after work and I feel so much more connected to other women and my community as a whole."
Online networking is another outlet. WorldWIT, for example, has discussion groups and allows its members to post messages on the organization's Web site, www.worldwit.org. Another site, www.bluesuitmom.com, provides tips on how to balance professional and home life. It also helps users form groups of working mothers to socialize within their neighborhoods through message boards.
"Parenting and mothering groups in any form are a good way to exchange ideas and partner with one another -- to help out with things like picking up each other's children from day care when you need an extra hand," said Marcia Brumit Kropf, the vice president for research and information services at Catalyst, a national organization that studies trends involving women's roles in business. "Professional women need these kinds of networks more and more these days."
Beth Bull, the treasurer of Texas Instruments, says she has participated in coaching programs at her company over the years, and she also remains active in two women's groups outside the company. She and the other members organize activities like dinners and movies at least once a month and exchange tips on balancing their time. After Sept. 11, she said, her priorities changed.
One day last fall, instead of arriving at her Dallas office at her usual time of 8 a.m., Ms. Bull joined her son, Adam, 9, on an in-line skating jaunt to his elementary school. "I raced back home after dropping him off, fixed myself up, and just made it to my 10 a.m. meeting," Ms. Bull said, with a laugh. "I would have never done something like that prior to 9/11."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Julie Kanel, left, Diana Yonkouski, Cindy Moskowitz, Kim Merkin and Liz Becker are members of a women's networking group in the Bay Area. (Anne Dowie for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (90%); WOMEN (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); WORK WEEK (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PARENTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); TERRORISM (60%); AGING (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; WOMEN; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (94%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (64%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (ADBE) 

TICKER: ADBE (NASDAQ) (94%); ADB (FRA) (94%); MAR (NYSE) (64%); VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%); TXN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (64%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



730 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Women CallFrom Home, Men From Everywhere Else

BYLINE:  By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
When it comes to cellphones, men rule the airwaves -- not to mention the sidewalks, trains and airports. According to a survey of 1,040 cellphone users by Cingular Wireless, men talk 14 percent more on cellphones than women. 
While women this year go wireless an average of 377 minutes a month, men drone on for 438 minutes -- and always, to judge by their tone, about Very Important Things.
 At home, though, women still rule the receiver: they talk 551 minutes a month, the survey says, versus just 314 for men. 
 Oddly, the survey shows men talking less this year, but a Cingular spokesman says this is just a quirk of this sampling -- that the trend is talk, talk and more talk. HUBERT B. HERRING

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: TIME SPENT ON PHONE Per monthHome land lineWOMEN2002: 491 minutes2003: 551 MEN2002: 4722003: 314 TIME SPENT ON PHONE Per monthCellularWOMEN2002: 3942003: 377 MEN2002: 5892003: 438 Graph also tracks the purpose of calls, and whether the calls were attributable to friends, internet use, or business. Graph tracks sales of alcoholic beverages (year-over-year change, weekly) from November 2002 through May 18, 2003. Graph tracks new mortgage applications (year-over-year change, weekly) from December 2002 through June 2003. Graph tracks energy prices (change in consumer price index) from June 2002 through May 2003. Graph tracks personal bankruptcy filings (totals in thousands, weekly) from December 2002 through May 2003. Graph tracks online sales (total in billions, monthly) from June 2002 through May 2003. Graph tracks hotel occupancy rates (four-week moving average, daily) through June 21 for New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles. (Sources: Cingular Wireless; Information Resources alcohol ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics energy prices ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; Smith Travel Research hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RESORTS (86%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); RETAILERS (59%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT; ENERGY AND POWER; BANKRUPTCIES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; HOTELS AND RESORTS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (73%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (73%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



731 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Major Indexes Fall as Investors Grab Profits

BYLINE:  By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The three major market indexes dropped last week as investors took profits after a long run-up in prices -- and as the end of the quarter approached.
 The market was treading water on Monday and Tuesday. 
Stocks declined sharply on Wednesday, when the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by one-quarter of a percentage point, disappointing traders who had expected a larger cut. On Thursday, the market rebounded, only to sink again on Friday. 
 Altria rose 4.9 percent for the week, the biggest gain among the Dow industrials. A federal appeals court in Virginia ruled on Tuesday that Philip Morris USA, an Altria unit, did not illegally keep competitors' brands from prominent display in stores.
 Circuit City Stores, the electronics chain, rose 18.3 percent, the biggest gain in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. The company rejected a takeover bid.
 For the week, the Dow fell 211.70 points, or 2.3 percent, to close at 8,989.05. The S.& P. 500 fell 19.47 points, or 2 percent, to close at 976.22. The Nasdaq composite index fell 19.46 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 1,625.26. In the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 3.58 percent from 3.36 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable. Apple ComputerNNM: AAPLIn a bid to stay innovative and independent in an industry dominated by Microsoft and Intel, Apple announced an alliance with I.B.M. to use a powerful I.B.M.-designed microprocessor chip.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $18.73WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.45%EST. '03 P/E: 117.80 Eli LillyNYSE: LLYFinland approved Lilly's treatment for pancreactic tumors, Gemzar, for use against breast cancer. It was the first such approval by any country. Lilly is seeking similar approval in the United States.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $68.12WEEK'S CHANGE: -0.60%EST. '03 P/E: 26.70 Merck & CompanyNYSE: MRKThe Justice Department accused the company's Medco Health Solutions unit of cheating the federal employees' health plan by promoting expensive drugs, among other things.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $61.02WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.97%EST. '03 P/E: 17.91 BiogenNNM: BGENBiogen and Idec Pharmaceuticals agreed to merge in a stock deal that was valued at $6.8 billion before it was announced. They aim to cut costs and broaden product pipelines.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $39.53WEEK'S CHANGE: -9.75%EST. '03 P/E: 22.41 Abbott LaboratoriesNYSE: ABTThe company said it would pay $622 million to settle an investigation into its sales practices for liquids needed to feed the seriously ill and would take a second-quarter charge of 34 cents a share.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $43.60WEEK'S CHANGE: -4.41%EST. '03 P/E: 19.68 Metro-Goldwyn-MayerNYSE: MGMMGM, one of four bidders, is emerging as a serious contender for Vivendi Universal's nonmusical entertainment assets, which it values at $11 billion, according to executives involved in the auction.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $12.33WEEK'S CHANGE: +1.90%EST. '03 P/E: -- Circuit CityNYSE: CCThe electronics retailer rejected an $8-a-share bid from Carlos Slim Helu, chairman of Telefonos de Mexico and Latin America's richest man. The offer valued the company at $1.65 billion.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $8.87WEEK'S CHANGE: +18.27%EST. '03 P/E: 73.92 General MotorsN: GMThe automaker sold $17.5 billion of bonds to pay for retiree pension and benefit plans. The securities, which were much in demand, yielded as much as four percentage points over comparable Treasuries.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $36.11WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.43%EST. '03 P/E: 8.19 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); APPEALS COURTS (55%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS USA (57%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (57%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (56%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (56%)

PERSON: CARLOS SLIM HELU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



732 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Beautiful Minds; 
Pure Math, Pure Joy

BYLINE:  By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
A mathematician, the Hungarian lover of numbers Paul Erdos once said, is a device for converting coffee into theorems. Here, then, are a few glimpses into the Truth Factory. The Mathematical Sciences Research Institute, sustained mostly by the National Science Foundation, sits on a hill above the University of California at Berkeley, where it attracts people from around the world for stints of up to a year to lose themselves in subjects like algebraic geometry or special holonomy. 
 Consider it an embassy of another world, a Platonic realm of clarity and beauty, of forms and relations, where the answers to questions not yet asked already exist. 
 Higher mathematics -- as opposed to what we do every April 15 -- has been relevant ever since Archimedes leaped out of his bath shouting "Eureka!" more than 2,000 years ago. Nobody knows when some abstruse bit of math will float off a blackboard at a place like this and become -- often decades later -- a key tool in cryptography, biology, physics or economics (as in "A Beautiful Mind").
Take string theory, a mathematically labyrinthine effort to construct a so-called theory of everything out of the notion that the fundamental elements of nature are tiny strings flopping and wriggling in an 11-dimensional space-time. It has been called a piece of 21st-century physics that fell by accident into the 20th century.
In their quest to negotiate this labyrinth, string theorists have made a hot topic of something called Riemann surfaces, invented by the German mathematician Georg Friedrich Bernhard Riemann 150 years ago, but they have also helped blaze new fields of mathematics. 
"Since our theories are so far ahead of experimental capabilities, we are forced to use mathematics as our eyes," Dr. Brian Greene, a Columbia University string theorist, said recently. "That's why we follow it where it takes us even if we can't see where we're going."
So in some ways the men and women seen here scrutinizing marks on their blackboards collectively represent a kind of particle accelerator of the mind.
But the "unreasonable effectiveness" of mathematics in explaining the world, as the physicist Eugene Wigner once put it, is a minor motivation at best for those immersed in the field. Most mathematicians say they are in it for the math itself, for the delirious quest for patterns, the thrill of the detective chase and the lure of beautiful answers.
"Math is sense," said Dr. Robert Osserman, a Stanford professor and deputy director of the institute, quoting from the play "Copenhagen." "That's what sense is."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Doing the math: clockwise, from top, Srikanth Iyengar making his case at the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute in Berkeley; waging mental battle with a proof; taking notes at a seminar; and participating in a question-and-answer session. (Photographs by Ed Alcock for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATHEMATICS (91%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); PHYSICS (89%); GEOMETRY (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); EUREKA, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



733 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Affirmative Action: A Corporate Diary; 
From Coffee to Keynote

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Anthony Chan has no doubts or concerns about policies that may have helped him land where he is.
 "I was able to take advantage of many different opportunities available that some might characterize as affirmative action," Mr. Chan said. Some of the programs were very competitive, he said, like a summer program for minority college students run by the American Economics Association. 
 "When you're picking 25 out of the entire United States, it's not exactly open enrollment," said Mr. Chan, who is Chinese and Puerto Rican. 
Mr. Chan, 46, lives in Columbus, Ohio, and is senior managing director and chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors, a unit of Bank One. He has traveled around the country and the world to make presentations on the state of the American economy. It is a long way from what he called his "humble beginnings" in East New York, where he grew up. In his view, policies that help other kids find new opportunities are essential.
"Many of the neighborhoods that we grow up in don't always offer the greatest opportunities unless we get a little help," said Mr. Chan, a graduate of Baruch College who received his Ph.D. in economics at the University of Maryland. "I think I did receive a sufficient amount of help that I was able to blossom," he said, adding, "I don't carry any stigma."
Of course, there are still occasional reminders that people make incorrect assumptions about him based on what he looks like, Mr. Chan said. He described how, before he was to make a presentation on the economy to several hundred people, a woman in the audience asked him to get her a cup of coffee.
"If that's not a reminder, I don't know what is," Mr. Chan said. He handled the situation by getting the coffee and even asking the woman if she wanted sugar. He then proceeded to give the keynote address.
"The people at the bank came back and many of them repeat this story to this day," he said. "You grow from these experiences, and you don't let them weigh you down." JONATHAN D. GLATER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (54%) AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%) BANK ONE 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: CHAN, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



734 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
For a Young Striver, a Moment in the Sun

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ON Wednesday, somewhere between Martin Luther King Jr. High School on West 66th Street and Little Africa in Central Harlem, you might have seen Allassane Coulibaly, who graduated third in his 170-member class from King that morning.
 At dinnertime, he was still wearing his pinstriped slacks and white dress shirt, which billowed, untucked and unbuttoned, over his thin frame in the wilting heat. But after having long been teased by his classmates for wearing cheap clothes, he was in no hurry to take off his good clothes. 
 In preparation for a small party in his honor, Allassane chased three barefoot little cousins out of his family's fourth-floor walkup, a railroad flat on Eighth Avenue and 114th Street. He served frosty glasses of water to his mother's friends as they came to wish him "Felicitations!" 
 Ten years after arriving in New York from the Ivory Coast, his mother, who braids hair on West 125th Street, still speaks mainly French and Mandingo. His father, who used to work as a chauffeur for an Ivory Coast politician, drives a truck here. Neither went to high school. 
 Allassane is 19, a year behind where he would be back home because he joined his parents here two years ago speaking no English. He is the oldest of five children, but having been separated from his parents for a decade, he finds it hard to call them Mom and Dad.
 At King, the first thing Allassane noticed was that Ibrahima Bah, last year's valedictorian, was, like him, West African, from Senegal. Allassane attached himself to Ibrahima, hoping to learn his secrets. In his living room, which is jammed with two couches, a Dell computer and a big canvas bag of jasmine rice, Allassane pulled out a treasured possession, the vocabulary flashcards Ibrahima passed down to him. These cards, along with television and immersion courses at school, helped him learn English.
 In Abidjan, where the French colonial tradition prevailed, students never wrote an essay with small words where big words would do. In New York, the teachers crossed out his big words and substituted simple ones. The only exception was Miss Cohen, who called him a risk taker, celebrated his love of words while nudging his usage, and cared enough to give him her personal e-mail address. 
 Ibrahima told Allassane that if he wanted to go to a good college, he had to do volunteer work. "How do you do all those community involvement and still excel in school?" Allassane wondered. Still, he found an unpaid job last summer filing papers at St. Luke's Hospital while spending four days a week in Upward Bound, a college-prep program.
Allassane's father wanted his son to spend his time studying and caring for his younger siblings. Allassane's classmates, many of whom were working in dead-end jobs to pay for the latest jeans and sneakers, teased him for working without pay. They accused him of acting white, and speculated that he was gay. "I wore simple shirts, small sneakers," he said. "I can say that it paid off. All the money they used to pay for clothes to show off, now they are struggling to go to college."
 Allassane has been accepted at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa., on a full tuition scholarship. Not averse to money, he aspires to be a banker like Alassane Ouattara, a prominent Ivory Coast economist who almost exactly shares his first name.
 He shrugs at the furor over this year's Regents math exam required for graduation, the results of which were voided after teachers complained it was too hard. Whatever flaws the test might have had, Allassane passed with a 78. 
 One of his classmates scored 98 on the test after arriving from Mali in the middle of senior year. But she has no green card, so she couldn't apply for a scholarship. Instead she will go to CUNY. "If you used to do very well back there, you can excel here," Allassane says. "Even if you didn't do very well back there and you put yourself into it, you can do very good here." 
 He is not naive. He knows that the achievement of the West African and Caribbean immigrants who make up almost all the top graduates is impressive only compared with the performance of poor and disadvantaged native-born children who have attended failing public schools all their lives. 
 As his apartment grew noisy with well-wishers, Allassane excused himself and walked with a visitor to nearby Morningside Park. "Bonsoir," he greeted strangers from Senegal and Guinea who were promenading with their families. 
 Instead of playing basketball on the street, he strives for something higher. Most nights, he climbs the hill to Columbia University to play pickup soccer on campus. There, he meets and often defeats college kids from across America. In the fall he will be one.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa Haney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (70%); VOLUNTEERS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (90%); AFRICA (90%); SENEGAL (78%); WESTERN AFRICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



735 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: URBAN TACTICS; 
The Leasing of Lot 116

BYLINE:  By TOM VANDERBILT; Tom Vanderbilt is the author of "Survival City: Adventures Among the Ruins of Atomic America."

 BODY:
EVEN by the skewed parameters of New York real estate, in which people have been known to do astonishing things with scant outpourings of square footage, Lot 116 confounds the imagination.
 Nestled in a graffiti-scarred alleyway off Woodward Avenue in a quiet residential section of Ridgewood, Queens, Lot 116 runs nearly the length of the alley, a respectable 355 feet. Like all great New York real estate deals, however, it comes with a catch: The width is two feet, three inches. 
 Lot 116 is what the City Planning Department calls, colloquially at least, a sliver space. These minute, almost useless fragments of land, peculiar topographical gerrymanderings located on the periphery of or dead-smack in the middle of other properties, are found in every borough and are typically owned by the city. The value is usually zero dollars. 
 "These properties are created by surveyors' errors or were simply residual lots when the original subdivisions were created," said Warner Johnston, a spokesman for the Department of Citywide Administrative Services. For example, the city may have condemned 10 inches of land running along a property for a new street, but that street was never built. "So technically we own 10 inches of that building or lot," Mr. Johnston said. "It just kind of sits in our portfolio."
 (A number of sliver spaces, not including Lot 116, will be sold July 23 at auction in the Javits Center.)
 As it happens, Lot 116 does have a temporary owner, one who hopes to make it a permanent acquisition at auction next year. A number of months ago, Cabinet magazine, a small quarterly cultural journal, published out of Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, petitioned the city to buy a number of these microparcels. 
 "The city has an auction in July, but we just missed the deadline," said Sina Najafi, Cabinet's editor. "They said, 'Why don't you lease them?"' And so for $125 a month, enough to cover the city's administrative costs, Cabinet is the proud renter of 10 of these properties, perhaps the largest small-property empire ever assembled in Gotham.
 Cabinet was not the first entity to own these 10 parcels, and indeed it was a kind of homage to their previous owner that sent them into the city's archives to pore over tax maps and sort through dusty records. The parcels, as they knew well, were bought at auction in 1973 by the conceptual artist Gordon Matta-Clark. He paid $25 per property.
 Matta-Clark, who died in 1978 at age 35, was a legendary presence in 1970's New York, a trained architect who channeled his artistic energy into taking buildings apart, literally and figuratively. His 1975 work "Day's End," which involved the strategic (and covert) removal of parts of the infrastructure of the abandoned Pier 52 on the West Side of Manhattan, rather shocked city officials and got him arrested. In "Bronx Floors: Four-Way Wall" he cut out symmetrical segments of four intersecting walls, from four different apartments, in a condemned Bronx tenement -- "This Old House" re-envisioned by M.C. Escher. In "Splitting," he miter-sawed his way through a condemned house in Englewood, N.J., perfectly bisecting it. "Why hang things on the wall when the wall itself is so much more a challenging medium?" he said in an interview recounted in a new book, "Gordon Matta-Clark" (Phaidon).
 The microproperties were bought for inclusion in something called "Reality Properties: Fake Estates." This work, never shown in Matta-Clark's lifetime, featured a property deed, a photograph and, as Matta-Clark put it, "perhaps a list of weeds growing there." In her book "Object to Be Destroyed," Pamela Lee says that Matta-Clark envisioned that the property itself would become part of the artwork. Not that the "owner" would necessarily be able to spend much time there, because as the artist described the project to one interviewer:
 "When I bought these parcels at the New York City auction, the description of them that always excited me the most was 'inaccessible.' What I basically wanted to do was designate spaces that wouldn't be seen and certainly not occupied. Buying them was my own take on the strangeness of existing property demarcation lines. Property is so all pervasive. Everyone's notion of ownership is determined by the use factor."
 After Matta-Clark died, his estate stopped paying taxes on the properties, and they reverted to the city, where they sat until the editors at Cabinet, Matta-Clark fans all, wondered aloud at one staff meeting what had ever become of them. And so the editors were led into one of the stranger corners of the urban fabric. One microparcel, Mr. Najafi noted, had simply been transferred back and forth many times between the members of a family named Cohen. 
 AN associate editor, Christine Potts, spent hours driving through Queens in search of the little plots. They are marked only on the map, unknown even to the landowners whose properties they abut. One parcel, Lot 160, is simply a strip of land lying between the sidewalk and a fence, in the shadow of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. Another, called the outhouse because of the boxlike fence that surrounds it, is actually stranded, like a wrong puzzle piece, at the confluence of several backyards. More than once Ms. Potts's investigations aroused the suspicion of neighbors. 
 "We got stopped by a guy warming up his Mercedes," she said. "We said, 'We're waiting for someone' -- this in an alleyway. People were looking out their windows."
 Cabinet has invited artists to propose projects, speculative and actual, to occupy the parcels (the results are published in the magazine's spring issue). For the alleyway in Queens, where cars are routinely parked on the lot now leased by Cabinet, an artist has proposed installing a row of parking meters. 
 "This guy would like to install parking meters and take the money to buy this piece of land in Harlem he's been dying to get," Mr. Najafi said. "But how could he enforce it?"
 Another artist envisions putting a lone mailbox on a thin strip of Queens land. "If we ever put that up, I'd love to send mail out there," Mr. Najafi said, "but a lot of these things don't have addresses." 
 Now that he has acquired, temporarily at least, these 10 parcels, Mr. Najafi feels that he can relate to another motive that Matta-Clark expressed in his project, one Mr. Najafi learned of only recently from Jane Crawford, the artist's widow. 
 "She said that Gordon always wanted to be a gentleman, and owning land was a very gentlemanly thing to do," Mr. Najafi said. "His piece was critical of certain ways in which land was made into property, but there was this whole other psychological level as well."
 Mr. Najafi noted that a number of people in the art world had since learned of the leasing of Matta-Clark's parcels, and had expressed interest in ownership. 
 "We want everyone to know about the project because it's kind of cool," he said, "but by next July we might be bidding against people who have a lot more money than us." Asked about a possible bidding war's rocking the dormant world of microparcels, Mr. Johnston of the city's administrative services agency had an instant answer: "Well, anything that generates more revenue, especially during these hard economic times, is always a benefit."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Randall Enos) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); CITIES (75%); SURVEYING & MAPPING (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (68%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



736 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Test of Time; 
Fixing the Race Gap in 25 Years or Less

BYLINE:  By STEVEN A. HOLMES and GREG WINTER

 BODY:
THE Supreme Court decision upholding affirmative action in university admissions seemed to carry an expiration date. "We expect that 25 years from now the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary to further the interest approved today," Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote in her 5-to-4 majority opinion last week.
 While the justices have in the past said that affirmative action should not be used forever, never before has a justice placed a specific time limit on it. Having now done so, Justice O'Connor has raised tough questions, both broad and specific. 
 Are her views merely idle musings, or will they become an iron-clad legal principle? Should the goal be parity in graduation rates of white, black and Hispanic high school students? Or should it be equality in financing between poor school districts, which tend to have more minority students, and middle-class white ones? Can the gap between black and white students on the SAT be bridged in the next generation? 
In The Chicago Tribune, Justice O'Connor said in a rare interview that the country can tackle many of these challenges. "I hope it looks as though we don't need artificial help to fill our classrooms with highly qualified students at the graduate level," she said. "And if we do our job on educating young people, we can reach that goal."
But closing the disparities in educational achievement and opportunities for college applicants across racial and ethnic lines will involve vociferous debate over the relative importance of school financing, social inequality and student study habits. 
Statistics tell the story. On every major indicator of academic success -- the SAT, the A.C.T. and the National Assessment of Educational Progress (given to elementary and secondary students) -- the gap between white and minority students has persisted for decades. Though it narrowed somewhat on the national assessment exams from the 1980's through the early 90's, the divide has only widened since then. 
"There is some serious heavy lifting to do before we get to the dream scenario Justice O'Connor is envisioning," said Chester E. Finn Jr., president of the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation and an assistant secretary of education in the Reagan administration.
Some liberals say the gap can be closed only by equalizing the amount of money spent on educating whites and minorities. The school districts that many blacks and Hispanics attend spend $902 less per student on average than mostly white districts, according to a national study conducted last year by the Education Trust, a group focused on closing the achievement gap.
To some degree, federal and state governments can, and do, try to fix this imbalance by sending more money to schools serving poor -- and, by extension, disproportionately minority -- students. Federal assistance for poor students is increasing, and state governments gave an average of $27 more per pupil to disproportionately minority schools in 2000 than to predominately white schools, though that hardly had a perceptible impact on the financing gap. 
But even if federal and state lawmakers were bent on eliminating the financial discrepancies between white and minority districts, they couldn't have much affect. On average, states and the federal government have never accounted for more than 56 percent of schools' revenues over the last decade or so; the remainder has come from local sources, mostly property taxes. This financial structure makes parity unlikely at best. 
And conservatives argue that the focus on financial parity misses the point, and point to some minority-dominated city school districts that have high spending per student but still lag well behind less flush districts, particularly in rural areas. 
Moreover, educational parity may be linked to bigger, more complex economic factors. Most beneficiaries of affirmative action are middle-income. According to a study by Anthony Carnevale, vice president of the Educational Testing Service, 74 percent of students at the 146 most prestigious colleges and universities -- where competition for admissions is most intense and where affirmative action is practiced -- come from families in the top 25 percent of the nation's socioeconomic scale (as measured by income, educational attainment and occupations of the parents). Only 3 percent of the students at these highly selective schools come from the bottom 25 percent of the socioeconomic scale. As Lani Guinier, a law professor at Harvard University, puts it, "affirmative action is less an escalator up than it is a bridge across."
But even middle-class black and Hispanic children who are burdened with issues of crime, troubled homes and poor schools have not been able to close the test-score gap with their white counterparts.
"The gap persists across all income levels," said Freeman Hrabowski, president of the University of Maryland at Baltimore County, who has written extensively on improving the academic achievement of black students. "We're talking about generations of habits in too many homes," said Mr. Hrabowski, who is black. "Unfortunately, reading is not the No. 1 priority as a habit. There is much more emphasis on television watching."
Both sides on the affirmative action issue agree on the need to close the education gap, but not much else. Some supporters of affirmative action hope that Justice O'Connor's 25-year time frame will protect affirmative action while the country makes headway in closing that rift. 
But the decision last week does not invalidate laws in California and Washington State that ban the use of race in public university admissions, hiring and government contracting. Ward Connerly, the black California businessman who was the force behind passing those laws, has already vowed to make Michigan his next target.
Demographic pressures will also come into play. The Educational Testing Service estimates that from 1995 to 2015, the percentage of whites on college campuses will decline from 71 percent to 63 percent, while Hispanics will increase to 15 percent, from the current 11 percent, with blacks holding steady at 13 percent.
But with minorities making up a larger proportion of students going to college -- and with the children of young immigrants approaching college age toward the end of Justice O'Connor's 25-year target -- Hispanic and black parents may be clamoring even more forcefully that their children not be shut out of top schools. 
In the end, the debate has not changed. Opponents of affirmative action will continue to say that such programs keep the country from focusing on what needs to be done -- namely, helping minority students meet higher standards. The supporters of race preferences counter that the country cannot end affirmative action without first fixing the education system. All agree that unless a commitment is made -- by society and minority families themselves -- the old arguments will still be around in 25 years.
Lisa Navarette, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group, said, "If all we do over the 25 years is affirmative action, then we will still need affirmative action."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 6, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A timeline last Sunday recalling moments in the history of affirmative action referred incorrectly to a body formed under the Kennedy administration by Executive Order 10925. It was the Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity, not the Equal Opportunity Employment Commission. (The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission is an agency created by Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Diversity, 1964: The University of Michigan Law School yearbook reflects the times. Other pages included only men. (Yuli Wu for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Diversity, 2002: The University of Michigan Law School defended its policy of considering race in its admissions. (Yuli Wu for The New York Times); (United Press International); (Associated Press)(pg. 14) Chart: "Affirmative Actions: The selective history of an American idea" March 6, 1961 -- President John F. Kennedy issues Executive Order 10925, which introduces the term "affirmative action" and creates the Equal Opportunity Employment Commission. July 2, 1964 -- President Lyndon B. Johnson signs the Civil Rights Act, which, among other things, outlaws discrimination in federal programs. September 1969 -- The Nixon administration develops the Philadelphia Plan, which requires contractors on federally supported projects to set minority hiring goals. 1975 -- The Harvard sociologist Nathan Glazer publishes "Affirmative Discrimination," a critique of racial preferences. 1977 -- The Public Works Employment Act provides $4 billion for projects in distressed areas. Ten percent of the money is reserved for minority businesses. June 28, 1978 -- In Regents of the University of California v. Bakke, the Supreme Court, by a 5 to 4 majority, strikes down the racial quota system of the University of California at Davis medical school. Allan M. Bakke, a white applicant who said he was passed over by the school in favor of less qualified minority applicants, is admitted. Dec. 16, 1985 -- The Justice Department fights employment quotas in federal court, supporting white firefighters and members of the engineering department of Birmingham, Ala., who say they were passed over for promotion in favor of blacks. June 23, 1989 -- In City of Richmond v. Croson, the Supreme Court strikes down a plan that set aside 30 percent of contracts for minority-owned companies. The court calls affirmative action a "highly suspect tool," which must be subject to "strict scrutiny." 1990 -- In "The Content of Our Character," Shelby Steele, a black scholar and essayist, argues against affirmative action. 1991 -- Stephen L. Carter's book "Reflections of an Affirmative Action Baby" outlines the personal costs that beneficiaries of affirmative action face. March 18, 1996 -- In Hopwood v. University of Texas Law School, the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit suspends an affirmative action admissions program, outlawing any preferences based on race. Nov. 5, 1996 -- With a strong push by Ward Connerly, a University of California regent, Californians pass Proposition 209, which forbids any consideration of race, sex or national origin in hiring or school admissions. April 6, 1998 -- Nathan Glazer says in a magazine article that he now supports affirmative action, arguing that the failure to integrate institutions would "undermine the legitimacy of American democracy." Dec. 3, 1998 -- Washington State voters eliminate all preferential treatment based on race or sex in government hiring and school admissions. June 23, 2003 -- The Supreme Court upholds the affirmative action program at the University of Michigan law school, but strikes down the university's undergraduate system that awarded extra points to minority students. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (92%); SUPREME COURTS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); TRENDS (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); GRADUATION RATES (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); APPEALS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



737 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2730 words

HEADLINE: A Summary of the Major Actions of the Legislature's 226th Session 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. and AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
The 226th annual session of the New York State Legislature ended on June 20, a day later than it was scheduled to, after a flurry of last-minute negotiations that stretched into the early hours but failed to resolve disputes over several major bills.
 The tempestuous finish of the regularly scheduled session capped an unusual year in which the Senate's Republican majority and the Assembly's Democratic majority banded together in May and passed a $92.8 billion budget over Gov. George E. Pataki's vetoes. 
 It was not only the first time in two decades that the Legislature had brushed aside a governor to enact its own spending plan, but it was also the first time in modern memory that the lawmakers approved increases to the sales and income taxes despite the governor's opposition. Mr. Pataki's relationship with his fellow Republicans in the Senate was severely strained. 
The cooperation between the Senate and the Assembly fell apart toward the end of the session, and several important bills on which compromises were possible and, in some cases, imminent were left stranded. Among these was a bill to refinance the state's program for cleaning up toxic waste sites and to create incentives for developers to build on abandoned industrial sites.
Efforts to forge a compromise on how to reduce the mandatory sentences for drug crimes also fell flat, as did a bill to make lobbyists seeking state contracts disclose their clients and expenses. The Legislature did not reach agreements on renewing a law to regulate where power plants are built.
Neither did lawmakers pass a bill to reduce fraud in the auto insurance industry, a problem that has been driving up premiums. Bills to reform the state's outdated budget process died as well. So did a bill that would have saved money in the Medicaid program by requiring people to use a list of inexpensive drugs unless they had state approval for more expensive medications.
Perhaps the most important bill to pass this year was a statewide ban on smoking in the workplace. The Senate and the Assembly also agreed to ban the dietary supplement ephedra. The Legislature approved increased penalties for sexual assault, at the same time removing from the state's laws outdated references to "sodomy" and "deviant sexual behavior," a change that gay rights groups sought.
Lawmakers also passed a bill stiffening penalties for filming people in private places without their knowledge. Another bill that was enacted made it illegal to discriminate in housing or employment against New Yorkers serving in the military. The bill also gives people in the service new benefits.
For New York City residents, partisan bickering in the session's final days produced an eight-year extension of state rent laws. Many tenants saw this as a defeat because it kept rules that have let landlords deregulate thousands of apartments.
The Legislature also voted in the wee hours on June 20 to allow for a water filtration plant to be built in Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx, giving Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg a victory but angering many residents of the borough.
In the end, both houses of the Legislature passed 761 bills, with most of them addressing narrow local issues like property transfers and taxing authority for cities and towns. Mr. Pataki has signed 83. He vetoed 119 lines in the appropriation bills, as well as the omnibus bill enacting new taxes and other changes to support the budget. He also rejected a bill that would have extended the date for holding school budget votes and an aid package for New York City. All the vetoes were overridden.

Budget

LEGISLATION ENACTED
It was a raucous and historic budget battle in Albany this year, pitting the legislative branch against the executive branch, a fight that sapped both sides' energy and led to a remarkably unproductive end of the session.
For the first time in two decades, the Legislature overrode a governor's vetoes of its spending plan. The lawmakers revived their budget, which increased state sales and income taxes to restore billions of dollars in spending on schools, hospitals, nursing homes and local governments. In the end, the lawmakers passed a $92.8 billion budget on May 15, handing Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, the biggest governing loss in his career. He fought back, however, saying the Legislature's budget was larger than lawmakers claimed, was unbalanced and would worsen the state's financial crisis, the worst since the Great Depression.
Mr. Pataki maintains that the enacted budget will actually cost about $94.4 billion, a 3.9 percent increase over last year, but legislative leaders have stood by their $92.8 billion figure, which would amount to a 2 percent increase in spending.
The truth is that both the original $90.8 billion plan that the governor proposed, on Jan. 29, and the final plan the Legislature enacted were each flawed, independent fiscal watchdogs and budget experts on both sides of the political aisle said.
To help close a projected $11.5 billion deficit, both relied on billions of dollars in one-time revenues and on $4.2 billion in borrowing backed by future payments from tobacco companies from a nationwide court settlement.
As a result, the state is already facing a deficit of at least $5 billion as legislators are heading into an election year, budget analysts have said. Making the problem worse, the state's highest court ordered the Legislature last week to spend more on New York City schools.
The personal income tax increase was sold by state lawmakers as merely a surcharge on the amount of taxable income a family earns above a certain level. But for people in high-income brackets, it was a tax increase on all their taxable earnings, a detail that did not emerge quickly in opaque Albany.
The state sales tax went up one-quarter of a percentage point on June 1. A few days later, the city sales tax rose by one-eighth of a percentage point, meaning that New York City residents pay a combined sales tax of 8.625 instead of 8.25 percent.
An aid package for New York City also figured prominently in this year's debate. There again, the Assembly and Senate rolled over Mr. Pataki, adopting legislation on May 19 worth $1.79 billion to the city, after negotiations among Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the state's two top legislative leaders and the City Council.
Many analysts complained, however, that all the Legislature succeeded in doing was to approve a way to let the already fiscally winded city increase taxes on sales and income to help solve its $3.8 billion deficit and stave off the severe layoffs the mayor had threatened under a so-called doomsday budget.
Lots of new taxes and fees on obscure items were tucked away in both the state budget and the plan for the city. One example is that New York City residents got a backdoor cigarette-tax increase, because the state will now collect its cigarette tax not just on the price of the cigarettes, but on the price after figuring in the city's tobacco tax. That was seen as a quiet way to raise an extra $11 million without raising the tax rate.

Crime, Justice and Security

LEGISLATION ENACTED
Makes secretly filming people in places where they expect privacy, like a bedroom, a felony. The law against so-called video voyeurism is called Stephanie's Law, named after Stephanie M. Fuller, 29, of Bay Shore, on Long Island, who was secretly videotaped by a landlord.
As part of the budget, the date on which the blood alcohol content that constitutes drunkenness for drivers will be lowered to 0.08 percent from 0.10 percent has been moved up. The change, originally scheduled to go into effect on Nov. 1, was moved to July 1, allowing the state to collect millions of dollars more in federal funds.

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
Would increase the minimum sentence for some teenagers convicted of second-degree murder to 7 1/2-to-15 years, from 5-to-9 years. The bill, known as Penny's Law, was prompted by the killing of Penny Lea Brown, 39, of Salamanca, N.Y.
Would require the state's Office of Public Security to evaluate and report on security measures being taken to protect the state's power plants, including nuclear plants, transmission lines and hubs, from terrorist attacks. It would allow the State Public Service Commission to order all of the plants, except the nuclear plants, to enhance security.
Would amend the Sexual Assault Reform Act of 2000, creating new crimes, like persistent sexual abuse, and providing greater protection for sexually abused spouses. It would also toughen penalties for using date-rape drugs and eliminate obsolete terms like sodomy and deviant sexual behavior.

LEGISLATION FAILED
For the third straight year, New York's top two legislative leaders failed to break a protracted deadlock with Governor Pataki over changing the state's penalties. Proposed legislation would have eased the Rockefeller-era drug law penalties, and made drug treatment available more often as an alternative to prison.
Would have required members of the clergy to report to social workers or to police any allegations of sexual abuse.

Housing

LEGISLATION ENACTED
Extends rent laws for eight more years for tenants in more than 1 million rent-stabilized apartments, primarily in New York City, and strengthens existing regulations that allow landlords to charge market rates for their apartments once the monthly rent reaches $2,000.

Business and Labor

LEGISLATION ENACTED
As part of the budget, allows state liquor stores to stay open on Sundays. Repeals the so-called Blue Law and requires stores to close on one other day during the week.

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
Would amend the state's Human Rights Law to protect New York residents serving in the military from being discriminated against by employers or landlords, and extends the package of financial benefits to those called to active duty. Among other things, the so-called Patriot Plan would allow them to terminate car leases and extend health insurance. The families of those killed or seriously wounded while fighting in the Persian Gulf or in the war on terrorism would receive full scholarships to the State University of New York or the City University of New York, or equal credit to attend a private college.
Would create create a program to provide health insurance for people in the entertainment industry, including Broadway actors, stagehands and others.

LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have improved working conditions for farmers by granting them several crucial benefits, ranging from overtime pay to the right to collective bargaining.
Would have billed local governments for half the costs of property-tax breaks offered to businesses in state economic development zones, a savings to the state of about $4 million annually.

Education

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
Would replace New York City's community school boards with parent councils. The new councils would comprise nine parents elected by parents of children in the district, two community members appointed by the borough president and a nonvoting high school senior appointed by the district superintendent.

Consumer Affairs

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
Would establish a receipt system for transfer of bodies from funeral directors or undertakers to owners, operators or managers of places of burial, cremations or other final dispositions. Establishing a paper trail for custody of a body will ensure that families know who is responsible for the body at any given time.
Would require those who practice electrolysis to be licensed, and set educational requirements and other regulations to protect customers' health.
Would require beer kegs to be clearly marked with an identification label or tag listing the seller and buyer, allowinglaw enforcement agencies to track down the purchaser of kegs found at parties where underage drinkers are present.

LEGISLATION FAILED
 Would have made car-leasing companies immune from lawsuits when leased cars are involved in accidents.
Would have attempted to curb spiraling auto insurance rates by making it harder to commit fraud under the state's no-fault insurance plan.
Would have changed a law regulating kosher food to require that all advertisements identify who certified the product as kosher, as well as other measures.

Environment and Energy

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
Would increase penalties for tree-stealing from a civil fine of $10 per tree, a standard set in 1909. The proposed law would make it a misdemeanor offense, and increase the penalty to $250 per tree, or three times its market value, or both, at a judge's discretion.
Would allow the construction of a water-filtration plant in Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx.

LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have refinanced the state Superfund program, which ran out of money for new projects in 2001, and would have created a comprehensive program for the cleanup of abandoned industrial sites known as brownfields.
Would have extended a 1992 state law, known as Article X, that streamlined the approval process for selecting sites for new power plants. The old law, which expired on Jan. 1, created a separate regulatory process for power plants that produce at least 80 megawatts of electricity.
Would have expanded the so-called bottle bill, a law passed in 1982, requiring a nickel deposit on any bottle or can holding carbonated beverages, to include noncarbonated drinks including sports drinks, juices, teas and water. It would also have sent unclaimed deposits, which now stay with the bottling industry, to the state's environmental protection fund, to be used for grants for local governments to defray the cost of recycling.

Health Care and Mental Hygiene

LEGISLATION ENACTED
Prohibits indoor smoking in restaurants, bars and nearly all workplaces across the state under one of the toughest antismoking bans in the country, and closes loopholes in the New York City smoking ban enacted earlier this year.

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
Would ban over-the-counter sales of the herbal supplement ephedra, fining stores that dispense it without a doctor's prescription up to $500 for each violation. It would make New York only the second state, behind Illinois, to adopt such a ban.
Would require all hospital emergency rooms to provide emergency contraceptives -- high doses of birth control pills that can prevent pregnancy -- to women who have been raped. Many New York hospitals already offer the pills.
Would prohibit the sale of gutka, a sweet chewing tobacco from India, to minors, but allow sale to adults.

LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have raised sales tax on junk food, video games and DVDs, among other things, to raise money for childhood-obesity-prevention programs.
Would have allowed pharmacies to dispense emergency contraceptives without a doctor's authorization.
Would have tightened regulation of the state's adult homes for the mentally ill.
Would have established a preferred list of drugs that Medicaid patients must use unless they received state permission to use more expensive drugs.

Transportation

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
Would require a notice posted in every taxicab and livery cab encouraging passengers to buckle their seat belts. Known as Adam's Law, the measure would require that seat belts be clearly visible, accessible and maintained in good working order.

LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have considered those who ride a motorized two-wheeled device like the Segway Human Transporter be considered pedestrians. That would have meant that the device would not have been considered a motor vehicle and would not have been subject to provisions of the Vehicle and Traffic Law.

Government and Elections

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
Would establish a fiscal control board for Buffalo, a boon to the city, in western New York, which has been teetering on the edge of bankruptcy for years.

LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have required that lobbyists trying to win state contracts disclose the names of their clients and their expenses and compensation to the Temporary State Commission on Lobbying.
Would have instituted a federal voting program intended to overhaul New York's election system for years to come. The Help America Vote Act, which Congress enacted last year, was meant to streamline the nation's election procedures in the wake of the 2000 presidential election. New York's share, about $235 million, would pay for replacing outdated polling machines, training poll workers and setting up a statewide database of registered voters, among other things.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A new law prohibits smoking in nearly all workplaces in the state, including bars and restaurants. Another health-related bill, to raise the sales tax on junk food, did not pass. (Edwine Seymour for The New York Times); Russell Simmons, at left, the hip-hop impresario, helped lead a fight, which did not succeed, to ease the penalties required by the Rockefeller-era drug laws in New York. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); VETO (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); APPROVALS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (70%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (66%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (65%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (65%); SENTENCING (65%); SEX OFFENSES (65%); SMOKING (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); INSURANCE (63%); RENTAL PROPERTY (63%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (63%); SMOKING BANS (61%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



738 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1832 words

HEADLINE: An Aging Europe May Find Itself on the Sidelines 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD BERNSTEIN 

DATELINE: BAD FUSSING, Germany, June 25 

 BODY:
This spa town in the Bavarian countryside, blessed with natural hot springs with reportedly curative powers, does not resemble Fort Lauderdale or Miami Beach, but it is the rough German equivalent, the place where retirees go for their comfort and well-being.
 But if Bad Fussing is small compared with senior citizens' centers in the United States, it nonetheless represents a big part of the future in Germany and elsewhere in Europe, where a population that is both living longer and producing fewer children is beginning to change some of the fundamentals of both social and political life. 
 The changing demographic picture has produced political uncertainty and crowds of angry demonstrators in European countries whose governments, reacting to the shift from youth to the aged, are moving to reduce social services, including the pensions that millions have been counting on for their golden years. 
"We've only seen the beginning of that," said Wolfgang Lutz, a demographer at the Austrian Academy of Sciences who projects a steep upward curve in the average age of Europeans in the years ahead. 
But while pension reform is the urgent political issue of the moment in Germany, Austria, France and other countries, many experts see it as a harbinger of things to come, a sign of a demographic shift with important implications not only for the welfare of retirees but also for European societies as a whole. The crucial factor is age. 
One study by William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution in Washington, predicts that the median age in the United States in 2050 will be 35.4, only a very slight increase from what it is now. In Europe, by contrast, it is expected to rise to 52.3 from 37.7.
The likely meaning of this "stunning difference," as the British weekly The Economist called the growing demographic disparity between Europe and the United States, is that American power -- economic and military -- will continue to grow relative to Europe's, which will also decline in comparison with other parts of the world like China, India and Latin America.
With its population not only aging but shrinking as well, Europe seems to face two broad possibilities: either it will have to make up the population shortfall by substantial increases in immigration, which would almost surely create new political tensions in countries where anti-immigrant parties have gained strength in recent years, or it will have to accept being older and smaller and therefore, as some have been warning, less influential in world affairs.
"The European countries are aging in a world that is becoming younger," Mr. Frey said in a telephone interview. "And in a global economy, they're not going to share in the energy and vitality that comes with a younger population."
Mr. Lutz, who with Brian C. O'Neill and Sergei Scherbov wrote an article on the subject in Science, agrees that the crucial issue is less a smaller population than an older one.
"There is a fear that just as the world is entering its most competitive stage ever, Europe will be less competitive vis-a-vis the United States and the Asian economies, which are much younger and are benefiting from what you might call a demographic window of opportunity," he said.
The first effect of this has taken the form of efforts by European governments both of the left and of the right to trim the pay-as-you-go pension system, under which the taxes paid by current workers are used to pay the pensions of current retirees. This has produced angry protests. In Austria, which has one of the most generous social welfare systems, workers have staged the first general strikes in that country since the end of World War II. In France, there has been a series of national one-day work stoppages as the conservative government has put forward a proposal that would require workers to stay on the job several more years than at present to be eligible for pensions, which would be smaller.
But some experts are convinced that the reform efforts being proposed, difficult and controversial as they are, will prove inadequate to cope with an aging population.
"In reality, a legal retirement age of 80 is what we should aim at," Erich Streissler, an Austrian economist, wrote in a newspaper article. 
Mr. Streissler's basic argument is one that applies to most of the countries of the European Union: people are retiring well before the official retirement age of 60 to 65, depending on the country.
Across Europe, only 39 percent of men age 55 to 65 still work, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
This means, given the historically low birthrates of "old" Europe, that a decreasing number of young people are paying into pension systems that have to support a larger number of people who, on average, will be in retirement for almost as many years as they worked to earn their pensions in the first place.
Or, as Mr. Streissler put it about his own country, the system works "to give every Austrian the right to retire in midlife with what is internationally a particularly high pension, so that he can waste an ever increasing portion of his lengthening life expectancy in unemployment." 
Here in Bad Fussing, the population trends in Germany are easy to see. Forty years ago, when this village decided to turn itself into a holiday resort, the local population was a grand total of 38, according to Rudolf Weinberger, the spa's director. Now, Mr. Weinberger says, Bad Fussing is the biggest spa in Europe, with 250,000 guests coming each year and a permanent population of 6,400, including 2,400 retirees.
Two other spas in addition to Bad Fussing have sprung up in this area not far from the Austrian border, along with four- and five-story chaletlike hotels, guesthouses, restaurants and shops.
"It's a good life in Germany as a retired person," Gunther Burhenne, 67, said, immersed in an indoor pool at one of Bad Fussing's three elaborate hot-spring bathing complexes. Behind him was a gaudy mosaic of fish and sea anemones. Outside, a crowd did calisthenics while standing waist deep in sulfuric water.
There are many people here like Mr. Burhenne, who had a 34-year career in the German Army, and then worked briefly as a real estate agent before he retired. The guests at Bad Fussing seem far from old and decrepit. They are just a bit beyond middle age and are still vigorous enough to play 18 holes at one of the eight golf courses built near here in the last two decades.
But that is the point about Germany, which, like Austria, is at the leading edge of European population change with its anxieties about the future. People like Mr. Burhenne can enjoy their retirement, but some people here see the national debate about what is called pension reform as a dark cloud on the horizon.
"It will definitely get harder because there are not enough jobs," said Helga Schimpfhauser, 63, reclining on a chaise longue in another part of the spa. "They talk about raising the retirement age, but nobody will hire you after 50 anyway."
Lounging with his wife nearby, a man who would give his name only as Reinhardt was fuming because the spa refused to accept his state health insurance this year and he had to pay the $8 daily entrance fee out of his own pocket. He had not been told that most health insurance programs in Germany removed spa treatments as an automatic benefit last year, though if doctors prescribe such treatment a person is still covered for one visit every three years.
For European governments, there is no alternative to reform, which means lower benefits and higher retirement ages. Austria, despite the labor walkouts, has passed legislation cutting benefits by 10 percent and gradually raising the retirement age to 65 from 60. Similar legislation seems almost certain in France and here in Germany, which has one of Europe's lowest birthrates.
Indeed, Germany's Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth has compiled figures showing just how much the population is changing. The fertility rate itself is 1.34 children per woman, well below the rate of 2.1 said to be needed to maintain a stable population.
The reasons given for this apply throughout the industrialized world: people in highly developed, prosperous societies tend to have fewer children; women postpone childbearing to pursue careers, or forgo having children altogether.
In Germany, among women born in 1950, 14.9 percent of west Germans and 8 percent of east Germans are childless. By comparison, of women born in West Germany in 1965, 31.2 percent are childless along with 26.4 percent of women born in East Germany.
Even more striking are the differences by social strata. Fully 39 percent of the most educated German women are childless, the government's statistics show, compared with under 25 percent for women with less education.
"The more money you make, the greater is the opportunity cost for having children," said Bernd Raffelhuschen, a member of a German governmental commission studying pension reform. 
Projecting the population into the future is difficult because nobody can be sure that the birthrate will not begin to increase, as it has, for example, in recent years in France. Indeed, a higher birthrate, combined with immigration, could significantly halt the trend toward an older and a smaller European population.
Mr. Lutz and his colleagues estimate that one million immigrants a year into Europe would be the same as women having on average one more child. But one million immigrants a year would mean 50 million by 2050, and that alone would be a demographic shift that many Europeans find culturally and politically unacceptable.
In Germany, all government projections show a downward population trend, even after factoring in a high number of immigrants.
But more important in Germany, as in the rest of Europe, is the rapid growth in the numbers of the elderly. In 1950, 30 percent of the German population was under 20 and only about 2 percent was over 80. By 2050, under-20's are expected to be only 16 percent, while the over-80's are estimated to reach about 12 percent.
The consequences of this shift are already striking, Mr. Raffelhuschen said. "At the moment, we really have two working people and one retired person," he said. "In 2035 or so, every worker will support one retired person." 
The solution being recommended by the pension reform commission is to reduce the pension amount from 70 percent of the average national salary to less than 60 percent. 
That is a large drop in a country where 80 percent of pension income comes from the state, but few experts see any hope that this reduction can be avoided.
This is because even if there were to be a sudden increase in the fertility rate, it would take a generation for the additional people being born to enter the work force.
"The only thing that can help a little bit," Mr. Raffelhuschen said, "is age-specific immigration, people 20 or 30 or so, because they would substitute for those who are not being born."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 12, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on June 29 about Europe's aging population and its consequences for pensions misstated the percentage of older European men who are employed. According to a report by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the figure is 49 percent of men in the organization's European countries, aged 55 to 64, not 39 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Esther Williams, eat your heart out. A group of retirees took calisthenics in one of the hot spring pools in the German spa of Bad Fussing last week while others relaxed in a whirlpool. As Europeans retire earlier and live longer, pension systems will soon be running out of money. (Michela Rehle for The New York Times) Chart: "DEMOGRAPHIC TRENDS: Europe's Aging Population"As fewer children are born and life spans increase in Europe*, fewer workers will be paying taxes to support retirees. Median AgeGraph tracks the median age for Europe and United States since 1950. Fertility RateGraph tracks the fertility rate for Europe and United States since 1950. *All European countries including the Russian Federation (Source: United Nations World Population Division)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); POLITICS (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (77%); TRENDS (75%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (72%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); REFUGEES (62%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); INTERVIEWS (60%) POPULATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%)

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%) GERMANY; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



739 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Reeling In Many a Mealon the East River, and Maybe a Risky Mess of PCB's 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Alfredo Castellano stabbed his hook through a hunk of raw fish and cast bait and sinker toward Queens. Then he sat next to his wife, Carmen, their backs to the thigh-high retaining wall separating them from dense traffic on Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive.
 The sun had just dipped behind the housing projects of East Harlem, offering slight relief from the evening swelter. Their 7-year-old son, Giovanni, jumped and giggled, dodging his friend Jasmine, 11, as she swung in a hammock strung between a plane tree and a lamppost. 
 Sure, the Castellanos said, they catch fish from the East River. Maybe two or three times a week, they catch them and eat them. Giovanni does not like fish, but Ms. Castellano allows that she probably ate it when she was pregnant with him.
"I eat them all the time, and I never got sick," she said. "If it was dangerous, there would be signs out here, right?" There are no signs in sight. "It doesn't worry me," she said.
Maybe it should.
The State Health Department regularly publishes advisories warning that because of PCB contamination, most adults should eat fish caught from the East River no more than once a month and should avoid eels entirely. The state says children under 15 should not eat any of the fish, nor should women of child-bearing age, whose bodies can store the toxins and pass them on to their children during pregnancy or while nursing. Similar advisories apply to the waters of the Hudson and Harlem Rivers, New York Harbor, and to many rivers and lakes around the state.
A recent report showed that of more than 200 people interviewed at East Harlem centers for the federal Women, Infants and Children nutrition program, one in 10 ate locally caught fish. The report, by researchers at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, was published this month in the Journal of Urban Health.
"A lot of the people we talked to who were receiving fish from the local water were aware, in some form, of the health advisories," said Laura Bienenfeld, a clinical instructor who was one of the authors of the study. "But that didn't mean they were aware of how it could affect their children, or that they understood how persistent these toxins can be in our bodies and our environment."
The study showed that most people who ate local fish broiled or grilled it, reducing the PCB concentration by melting off the fat that stores the chemicals most readily. Fewer fried it, which would retain the fat and a higher level of PCB's.
On a warm day, especially in the evening, the thin strip of paving stones and grass along the river in East Harlem bristles with fishing rods, and so does the southern edge of Wards Island, a short hike across a pedestrian bridge. Fishermen -- and they are, nearly all of them, men -- crowd every bench and patch of shade, telling stories, drawing on cigarettes, waiting for a tug.
People can be found fishing almost anywhere on the city's many shorelines, but the waterfront alongside East Harlem is one of the busiest, thanks to a combination of economics, geography, culture and misinformation.
Poverty plays a role, of course; pulling a meal from the river is cheaper than buying it at a market, and some anglers earn a few dollars by taking their catch back to the barrio and selling it. And few poor neighborhoods in the city offer as ready access to the water as East Harlem.
Many people talk of fishing as a pastime picked up during childhood in Puerto Rico or in the Dominican Republic. In fact, some say they fish just to fish, and throw back what they catch.
"I'm from Santurce, in Puerto Rico; my father was a fisherman, and I've fished all my life," Ramon Rivera, sitting at the tip of Wards Island, said with a laugh and a shrug. "I don't eat them. I just like to fish. It's what we do."
But many of the people who eat fish from the East River have only a vague comprehension of the peril, or none at all. Polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCB's, were used as insulation in electrical equipment until the 1970's and were dumped into some of the nation's waterways, notably the upper Hudson.
They settled into the underwater silt and were slowly buried over time. The concentrations in the water dropped over the years, but the advisories remain. PCB's are thought to pose a risk of cancer and, with prenatal or early childhood exposure, of developmental disabilities.
"These fish aren't from here, they come from upstate or somewhere, and then they swim over here, so they're safe," one fisherman, Ponce Rome, said, incorrectly.
"We've been eating them for years, me and my wife," he said, showing off his catch for the day, a gorgeous, two-foot striped bass and a 16-inch bluefish with a mouth full of tiny, needle-sharp teeth. "We eat this fish maybe once a week -- more this time of year."
With all the publicity given to PCB's in the Hudson, there is a widespread but mistaken belief that fish from only that river are dangerous.
Jose Santana, sitting under a tree with his 17-month-old daughter, Julia, said he fished on the East River twice a week. He said his wife, Diana, had not eaten local fish when she was pregnant, but had beforehand and while nursing.
"Bluefish I don't worry about -- those are good," he said. "I heard the striped bass could be dangerous, so I usually don't eat those." Other fishermen insisted it was the other way around. In fact, the advisory applies to all species.
A police car rolled slowly up the walk, and the officer behind the wheel said he had heard of the health advisories, though he did not recall the specifics.
"I come by here every day and I tell these people, 'I wouldn't be eating what I catch here,' " he said. "But they keep coming back."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ponce Rome showed off his big catch from the East River. While the state advises against eating fish from the river more than once a month, Mr. Rome said, "We eat this fish maybe once a week -- more this time of year." (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); CHILDREN (88%); RESEARCH REPORTS (86%); FISHES (78%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (73%); LAKES (73%); WOMEN (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); NUTRITION (71%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (71%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); WRITERS (62%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



740 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Closed Since 9/11, a PATH Station Is Set to Reopen Today 

BYLINE:  By BENJAMIN WEISER

 BODY:
The PATH station at Exchange Place in Jersey City, closed since the September 2001 terror attack, is set to reopen today, a move that should ease commuting in and out of Manhattan. 
 The train station, which was used by 16,000 commuters daily before the attack, was closed immediately afterward because firefighting efforts at the World Trade Center had flooded the tunnels between Lower Manhattan and New Jersey. 
 To restore service to Exchange Place, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the PATH trains, spent $160 million on track work and other repairs, according to Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the Port Authority. 
With the closing of the PATH stations at Exchange Place and the World Trade Center, the overall daily ridership of the PATH system fell by 100,000, or almost 40 percent, to 160,000, Mr. Coleman said. Commuter traffic at the PATH stations at Christopher and Ninth Streets in Greenwich Village increased significantly, causing overcrowding. 
Many commuters are expected to resume use of the Exchange Place station, where they can catch ferries into Lower Manhattan. PATH service is expected to be restored at the World Trade Center site in November. 
Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey called the reopening "a significant milestone in the resurgence of the New Jersey-New York economic region," according to prepared remarks he is scheduled to give at a ceremony this morning.
Mayor Glenn D. Cunningham of Jersey City said he was elated by the reopening of the station. 
"This is something that was destroyed," he said yesterday in a telephone interview, "and it's back now. It's open. It's doing what it's supposed to do, and that's going to make it easier to facilitate the rebuilding of the ground zero area."
He noted that many people moved to the area around the station because of its convenience to Manhattan. When the station closed, Mr. Cunningham said, "a significant number of people had begun to relocate, and that will stop." 
A Jersey City police spokesman, Sgt. Edgar Martinez, said use of the station might even increase over pre-Sept. 11 levels because a number of businesses have since moved from Lower Manhattan to Jersey City. The police are prepared for the influx of pedestrian traffic, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Chipman, a repairman, checking turnstiles at Exchange Place. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); MAYORS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



741 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: This Land Is Made, Finally, for Chinese Settlers 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: LOCKE, Calif. 

 BODY:
Look long and hard enough in the dying light of day and it is almost as if ghosts are sitting on the splintered benches and withering balconies along Main Street.
 Connie King says she sees them sometimes. They give her a smile or a knowing nod, the kind that says: We are counting on you, Connie. Do the right thing. 
 "The old Chinese people left a lot of spirits here," said Mrs. King, 80, resting on a bench where she recalled encountering a long-departed neighbor late one evening. "That is maybe one of the reasons that I am living longer, to finish the job." 
Mrs. King feels good about the ghosts of Locke these days. That is because the job she mentioned is almost finished.
What is about to happen here is an extraordinary effort by the county government not only to restore life and health to a crumbling town, but also to right the racist policies of an earlier age, when immigrant Asian laborers were allowed to work the land but forbidden to own it.
For the first time since Chinese immigrants established Locke nearly 90 years ago, on a rented peach orchard tucked behind an earthen levee along the Sacramento River, the land beneath its rickety clapboard and rippled metal buildings is being prepared for sale. Over the coming months, county officials will put together a plan to carve Locke into 50 private lots.
The subdivision will finally undo an anachronistic property-leasing arrangement created under the state's 1913 Alien Land Law, which effectively blocked Chinese immigrants and their children from owning land. The law was part of a wave of legalized discrimination against Asian immigrants that swept across the nation nearly 150 years ago.
"I remember a lot of Chinese people leaving the town over the years, and they would say to me, 'Connie, we never got our land, but you keep trying,' " said Mrs. King, who complains of the usual aches and pains but shows no sign of letting up in her pursuit of that goal.
County officials say that one of the new lots will be sold, for about $5,000, to Mrs. King, who moved here in 1949, when she married her husband, Tommy, who has since died.
In a story typical of the times, the newlyweds had looked up and down the delta for a place to settle, even finding a couple of perfect homes on the river's edge. But they wound up converting a rented garage in Locke, the town where Mr. King had grown up, because the doors to those lovely homes kept closing.
"We saw one little ranch on the side of the road, and we took our checkbook with us," Mrs. King recalled. "I said to my husband, this is the house. We should qualify. But the man inside said, 'I can't sell to you. You are Chinese.' "
The Alien Land Law, which was copied by more than a dozen other states, was struck down in California in 1952. Two states, Florida and New Mexico, still have versions of the statute on their books, although they are not enforced.
"What happened in Locke was subordinate to a larger policy of keeping Asians out of the country, starting with the coolie laws in the 1860's and the laws that assumed all Asian women were prostitutes," said Gabriel J. Chin, a professor of law at the University of Cincinnati. 
As part of the subdivision plan, the Sacramento County Board of Supervisors, which governs the 10 acres on which Locke was built, has asked to have a list made of the people who lived here when the land restrictions were in place. Officials will interview longtime residents like Mrs. King and cull names from census data and other public records.
The board has also created a nonprofit group to run the town, with the instruction to alert Locke's early residents and their relatives on the list when a building or home comes up for sale. Current owners of buildings will have the first opportunity to buy the land, but should any decide to sell, the descendants would be given a chance to match the best offer.
Although the nonprofit group will have the final say, and could settle on a buyer without a Locke connection, the county's intention is to encourage ownership by Asian-Americans with family ties to the town.
"The overriding issue was righting a historic wrong," said Stephen L. Young, director of community development for the Sacramento Housing and Redevelopment Agency.
Even so, some of Locke's 90 or so residents, mostly low-income and not of Chinese descent, have expressed a stronger interest in preserving the present.
Some worry about having to pay property taxes for the first time. Others fear the town might lose its idiosyncratic charm if wealthy outsiders spruce up the old buildings.
The town's biggest property owner, Locke Property Development Inc., a group of investors from Hong Kong, has gone along with the subdivision idea, but not without some different worries. Faced with the overwhelming task of repairing the town's dilapidated sewer system, the investors, who bought the land beneath Locke and several hundred acres of orchards around it in 1977, sold the town's 10 acres to the county last year for $250,000.
Clarence Chu, the company's general manager, said he feared that new investors might avoid Locke because of the uncertainty that would come with the nonprofit group's oversight.
"We need people with some money to help preserve the history of Locke," Mr. Chu said. "The history is more important than pursuing some dream of bringing Chinese people back here."
Even some who support the subdivision plan confess that the redress comes late. Many of those who cared the most about owning land in Locke are dead, or have moved and have no interest in returning.
At one level, some current and former residents said, Asian-Americans have done so well for themselves that they no longer need Locke and all that it represents.
"I would like to see the town preserved, but it is more like a living memorial than a place to live," said Ping Lee, 85, a businessman who moved to nearby Walnut Grove 12 years ago and whose father was a founder of Locke.
Yet as what historians say is the only surviving town in America that was built as a Chinese settlement, Locke carries a burden of history far greater than its four blocks of mostly unkempt buildings would suggest.
Christina Fa, a pediatrician and member of the Chinese American Council of Sacramento, which was an advocate for subdividing Locke, said the town was a symbol for Asian-Americans nationwide.
Even if no former residents returned, Dr. Fa said, the changes being proposed amounted to an important form of restitution by drawing attention to Locke's racist past, and the largely unsung contributions of Chinese laborers in the Sacramento-San Joaquin delta.
"Without them, the delta would still be a swampland and California agriculture wouldn't be nearly as advanced and as much a world player as it is now," Dr. Fa said.
Locke came into being at a time when many Californians felt economically threatened by Chinese immigrants, who had begun arriving in significant numbers in the mid-1800's looking for gold.
By the turn of the 20th century, most of the Chinese had given up on mining and had settled into agriculture, the mainstay of the delta, a flat and mostly fertile expanse of islands between San Francisco and Sacramento protected by a labyrinth of levees built by Chinese laborers.
In 1915, after a fire raced through the Chinatown in Walnut Grove, one of the many delta towns that had a section for Chinese farm workers, some residents from the Zhongshan district of China's Guangdong Province decided to set out on their own.
They looked about a quarter mile up the winding levee road, where the heirs of George Locke, a Sacramento businessman, had inherited several hundred acres of orchards. There was already a wharf and a Chinese store and saloon there.
With the Locke family's permission, the outpost grew into a full-fledged Chinatown, all built on land leased to Chinese tenants to skirt the land law.
Over the years, Locke became well known in the delta for its rowdy gambling halls, clandestine opium dens and abundant bordellos. At its peak, the town's population swelled to more than 1,000.
"What was different about Locke was that it wasn't just a small section of some town that others had founded," said Sucheng Chan, a historian who wrote the foreword to "Bitter Melon" (Heyday Books), an oral history of Locke.
"When people write about the Chinese in the United States, and they focus only on the urban Chinatowns, it gives an incomplete and distorted view of the early history of the Chinese-Americans," Ms. Chan said.
That same early history is what motivates longtime residents like Mrs. King, who is known around town as "Locke Mom."
When the final subdivision plan is approved, perhaps as early as next year, Mrs. King says she expects to see some of the old-timers again.
"Yes, I believe in ghosts," she said, "and I think they are watching and waiting."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Max Kiert of Upland, Calif., taking a snapshot of his family in Locke on June 17. From left, Peter, Ruth and Caroline Kiert outside a store.; Connie King hopes to restore the spirit of Locke, a California town settled by Chinese laborers who by law were not allowed to own land. A plan has been developed to sell the land to residents or their descendants. (Photographs by Thor Swift for The New York Times) Map of California highlighting Locke: Locke, Calif., was built largely on Chinese immigrant labor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTIES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); RACE & RACISM (72%); PROPERTY LEASES (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



742 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: BASKETBALL; 
Nets' Top Pick Learned To Play in a War Zone

BYLINE:  By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
Zoran Planinic woke up to air-raid sirens when he was 10 years old and followed his mother and older sister downstairs into the basement.
 Living in Mostar, a city in Bosnia-Herzegovina, his family ate from humanitarian aid packages during the war in the Balkans in the early 1990's. 
 For six months they were without electricity. For 10 days, he was without his father, Jozo. The family had made frantic attempts to reach Jozo while he was fighting for Croatia but heard nothing. Then one day, Planinic saw his father through the basement window, walking through the door of the apartment building. 
The war stretched for four years, but its scars are still embedded in Planinic's consciousness at age 20. 
"It was hard," Planinic said Friday, sitting in the lounge bar of the Regency Hotel in Midtown Manhattan. "But we made it somehow."
Shrugging, he added, "That time I have kept to myself; I don't think about it."
He was too young to dream of playing professional basketball when bombs were hitting 50 meters from his apartment building.
"I just wanted to go and fight," he recalled.
He could not imagine that the Nets would select him, a 6-foot-7 point guard, with the 22nd overall pick of the 2003 N.B.A. draft.
"I play basketball to have fun," Planinic said with a smile. "I don't think to play basketball for money. I just want to be good and win. If I think in that way, the money is going to come along."
Planinic (pronounced PLA-ni-nitch) became the first Nets player from Croatia since Drazen Petrovic, who died 10 years ago in a car accident. They both played for Cibona, Croatia's legendary club team. Planinic was given Petrovic's No. 10 when he joined the team in 2001. But the similarities end there.
"When they say, 'Do you play like Drazen?' I say, 'No, there's only one; nobody can compare,' " he said.
Petrovic was a 6-5 shooting guard. Rod Thorn, the Nets' president, and Ed Stefanski, their director of scouting, who saw Planinic play in Croatia, were impressed with his size. But he was not always so big.
"When I was 15 Iwas short, and in one year I grew so much," he said.
He shot up nearly six inches, but he kept the point guard's mentality. 
"Every game, no matter if it is basketball or soccer, I always want to have the ball; I always want to have that control," Planinic said, grinning.
Soccer was his sport until he tried basketball at school with his friends when he was 12. His father, an accomplished soccer player, took him to a tryout for Cibona in Zagreb when he was 16. He joined the team's junior club.
In 2001-2, Planinic was named the best Croatian young player -- despite playing with a stress fracture in his right foot -- and was a member of the under-22 Croatian national team. He helped Cibona win the national championship in 2001 and 2002.
This season, Planinic averaged 7.8 points and 2.8 assists and shot 52.4 percent from the field. 
"What I like about him is his court awareness," said Nets Coach Byron Scott, who watched Planinic in workouts and on videotape. "I love the fact that he's a 6-7 point guard, has a great feel for the game. He's athletic."
The Nets hope to sign Planinic before the Boston summer league begins in mid-July. They are having problems negotiating the release of their first-round pick last year, Nenad Krstic, from his Serbian team, Partizan, but Planinic said he would not have a problem. The Nets will pay a $350,000 fee to bring him to the N.B.A.
For three weeks before the draft, Planinic stayed in an apartment on East 60th Street in Manhattan with three Serbian players who are also represented by his agent, Marc Cornstein: Darko Milicic, the No. 2 pick by Detroit; Alexsandar Pavlovic, the No. 19 pick by Utah; and Slavko Vranes, the Knicks' second-round pick, a 7-6 center.
They became close, going to workouts at John Jay College on 10th Avenue, and eating lunch and dinner together.
"They're all Serbs; I like them," said Planinic, who is comfortable speaking English. "For now, if they need blood, I will give it to them."
He does not like to speak much of the war. His father, now unemployed, was a foreman in an aluminum factory that shut down, Planinic said, because of the war. 
His mother, Milka, is a doctor who specializes in treating breast cancer. His sister, Milena, 26, has finished pharmacy school.
Planinic had never been to the United States before June 5. Since then, he has been to the top of the Empire State Building and witnessed the best in street basketball, the Rucker league in Harlem. "I like the moves," he said, smiling. 
In his first season with the Nets, Planinic will earn $816,900.
"I've never had such money in my hands," he said, noting that he will eagerly transfer some back home. 
It is too soon for Planinic to envision his N.B.A. career. "I'm just in the beginning," he said. "In 10 years, I'll see where I'm going to be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zoran Planinic, a 6-7 point guard, was the Nets' first pick in the draft. He helped the Croatian club Cibona win national titles in 2001 and 2002. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); SOCCER (85%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ATHLETES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (85%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); CROATIA (94%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



743 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: Can't Find a Summer Job? Blame All the Layoffs 

BYLINE:  By R.S. FLINN

 BODY:
THE summer of 2002 was supposed to be the last time William Wells Cimarosa of Westport worked on the beach. But a bad economy and a lack of jobs in finance made him sign up again for this summer.
 "Ideally, I would have liked to get out of school and get a job and get a career started," said Mr. Cimarosa, who graduated from college last year. Mr. Cimarosa has worked as a lifeguard at Compo Beach in Westport throughout high school and college until he was promoted to waterfront manager. Unable to find a corporate job, Mr. Cimarosa decided to return to the beach before attending graduate school in the fall at the University of California, San Diego. 
 "I couldn't get a better paying job," he said. "It's like high school again." 
With the national unemployment rate hitting its highest level in nine years in May, at 6.1 percent, coupled with what economists call "a jobless recovery," many high school and college students looking for entry-level positions or internships are facing one of the toughest markets in years, said guidance counselors and career experts. To make matters worse, these youngest workers are competing against adults who have been laid off. Wal-Mart, for example, which just opened a store in Norwalk, said it received more than 5,000 applications for 300 positions, with experienced adults filling some jobs that traditionally would have gone to younger people. 
Connecticut's unemployment rate has risen steadily since the summer of 2000. For the period May through September 2000, the rate averaged 2.18 percent. During the same period in 2002, the rate averaged 4.36 percent. So far this year, the unemployment rate has averaged 5.38 percent.
Stuart McCarthy, director of Parks and Recreation for Westport, said the number of positions the town is filling this summer has stayed the same as previous years. But more college students are returning to positions they held last year and that has meant fewer jobs for high school students.
"The number of applications we are getting is higher than the normal rate," Mr. McCarthy said. "We are seeing a higher number of returning staff. Normally, as kids get toward their junior or senior year in college, they take internships. But as businesses are cutting back on internships these students are looking for jobs as lifeguards," as well as tennis instructors and gate personnel, he said.
Typical summer jobs such as these can be easy to find, said John Tirinzonie, a state labor economist. But getting work from a corporate employer can be difficult.
"Most of the traditional types of jobs that high school students would get into are still out there," Mr. Tirinzonie said. "The Department of Environmental Protection is hiring tons of people for seasonal jobs." These jobs, which are listed on the department's Web site, www.dep.state.ct.us, include lifeguard positions, campground supervisors and first aid attendants.
"Where you run into problems is college graduates," he said. "In the past, they had jobs before they graduated. Now, we're not seeing a lot of hiring. I think a lot of college students are at the point now where they are looking for more permanent careers, but are holding on to temporary positions until they find it."
And that could mean fewer jobs for younger students.
"We may have a situation where high school students who want to work may findit more difficult or not find it at all," he said.
The hiring that is taking place is much more competitive, according to Richard Bayer, chief operating officer of the Five O'Clock Club, a New York-based career coaching and outplacement network.
"We deal with professionals, managers, and executives, and we've had people take jobs in retail," Mr. Bayer said. "We had a $100,000-a-year woman who took a job as a receptionist. And a former president of his own company took a job at the Gap."
These two examples are not exceptions, Mr. Bayer said.
"More senior people are taking junior jobs to pay the bills and get out of the house," he said.
This trend puts college graduates in direct competition with experienced professionals, said Gail Howard, director of Norwalk Community College's Cooperative Education Program. She helps place students in internships.
"Paid internships and entry-level jobs are very competitive," she said. "The problem is, people who were laid off have three, four, five years of experience and are taking those paid internships."
By most standards, Robert Sobelman of Westport is a great candidate for an internship. The high school junior will be the student body president his senior year and had a 3.6 grade point average. But he almost didn't have a job this summer.
"I was rejected by five offices," Mr. Sobelman said. He had applied for internships with senators Joseph I. Lieberman, Christopher J. Dodd, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer, with no luck. He eventually was accepted into an unpaid internship program for Representative Christopher Shays. 
Charles Bassos, president and chief executive of Fairfield County Savings Bank, said that turnover at his bank had slowed. Without open positions to fill, he has watched the number of applications from recent college graduates pile up.
"I've been getting more resumes across my desk than I have in the past five years," Mr. Bassos said, estimating that he has received between 10 to 15 a week. These resumes come from all parts of the country, he said, from college students to vastly experienced people looking to obtain entry-level professional positions.
"People are staying put," Mr. Bassos said. "We haven't hired a recent college grad for some time."
Anand David, director and regional head of campus recruiting in the Americas for UBS, has worked at the company for three years and has noticed a sharp increase in the number of students who attend recruiting events on college campuses.
"There is a huge difference in the level of attendance," Mr. David said. "It's double or triple what we saw three years ago."
The company has hired 1,038 college students this summer for internships, 78 of which are in Stamford. Last year, it had 678 interns and 64 in Stamford.
Robert Reed, store manager for the new Wal-Mart in Norwalk, was surprised by the number of applications the store received. In a five-week period, more than 5,000 applicants turned out at the hiring office. He still receives 50 to 100 applications a day, although the store is fully staffed. Mr. Reed said that high school students have as good a chance as an adult with experience to work at Wal-Mart, but the number of people seeking work made it more difficult.
"We've had so many applicants to go through, we had to pass up a lot of good people," Mr. Reed said. "From people with no experience, to people that made $70,000 to $80,000 a year who are applying for entry-level positions."
Lisa Rivieccio, a Norwalk teacher with the city's School-to-Career Program that pairs students with local businesses, described this summer's job prospects for students as "bleak."
"The market is tight, but not impossible," she said. "It will require more legwork; students will not be able to walk in the door and get hired."
She said that companies had cut back on part-time jobs, usually the positions that students occupy. Compounding the shortage, graduating seniors, who usually give up their School-to-Career jobs to try something different, she said, have kept their positions. That means incoming students to the program have nowhere to go. Fortunately, she said none of the 80 students in the program have lost their jobs due to cutbacks.
According to a national survey of teenagers taken by Junior Achievement, an organization that educates young people about business, economics and free enterprise, 81 percent of teens plan to work this summer, down from 85 percent in 2002 and 86 percent in 2001. Additionally, 30 percent of teens who held a job in the summer of 2002 are somewhat pessimistic about finding a job this summer, while 45 percent are somewhat optimistic.
Bianca Romero, 17, of Westport, has asked all her friends with jobs if they knew of any openings. She has gone up and down Main Street and the Post Road in Westport, asking retail store managers if they would hire her.
"They were basically like, 'We don't think we are hiring,' or 'We're full for the summer,"' Ms. Romero said. Although she worked as a camp counselor for a country club last summer, some stores seemed to turn her away because she did not have experience in retail.
"If I can't find a job, I'll will try to baby sit a lot," Ms. Romero said. "I need something to take up time this summer. I am also trying to save up for spring break, because my mom won't pay for it."
Terrance Carter, 17, lives in Hartford and was looking forward to working another summer as a program assistant for ConnectiKids, a nonprofit community organization that tutors children. But Mr. Carter said he was told the group was not hiring program assistants this year.
After trying to find a job at a clothing store without any success, Mr. Carter is trying to find work elsewhere.
"Now I'll take anything," Mr. Carter said. "I never had this problem before. I've had a job since I was 14. I don't know what I'll do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patricia Postel, a co-manager of Wal-Mart in Norwalk, looking over some of the thousands of job applications the store has received. (Judith Pszenica for The New York Times)(pg. 1); William Wells Cimarosa, who graduated from college last year, said he could not find a job in finance so took a job at Compo Beach in Westport. (Judith Pszenica for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); BEACHES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



744 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: The Rains of June Have Left Behind Soaked Businesses 

BYLINE:  By JAMES LOMUSCIO

 BODY:
LAST week's sun did little to console Joseph Romeo, owner of Joey's by the Shore, a waterfront restaurant at Compo Beach in Westport.
 "It's too soon to tell if a few days of sun will make a difference," said Mr. Romeo, whose business has been down 70 percent since Memorial Day. "It would be nice if the sun came out on a weekend, but right now next weekend isn't looking too good either. I don't even want to look at the forecast anymore. It's been a bad year." 
 How bad? His restaurant, usually sand strewn by a procession of barefoot bathers, was mostly a haven this month for joggers or bored lifeguards looking to keep dry. 
"I cannot in my memory think of a worse, wetter beginning of the summer," said Mr. Romeo, who has operated the town concession for 14 years. "Our only hope is a good July and August."
His sentiments were shared by other weather-dependent businesses around the state, as Connecticut, like the rest of the Northeast, has been pummeled by continual rains, unseasonably cool temperatures and gray skies that have created a feeling of dusk throughout the day. And with Memorial Day and virtually all subsequent weekends a washout, everyone from carnival workers to landscapers to state park officials to clammers to outdoor events planners are cautious when it comes to a sunny outlook. A few searing days last week were a help, but businesses said they will need a lot more. Even diehard golfers who quip that it never rains on a golf course have reached their saturation point.
"People are just getting tired of playing in the rain," said Christopher Fellows, assistant manager of the D. Fairchild Wheeler Golf Course, a municipal course that straddles Fairfield and Bridgeport. "I'd say 19 out of 24 weekends so far this year had either rain or snow, and we lost at least 25 percent in business, and 25 percent is conservative." He said business was down about $50,000 from last year.Fred V. Carstensen, director of the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis at the University of Connecticut in Storrs, said that although it will take at least a year to calculate the amount of revenue lost to the rain, he estimates that businesses that are "critically dependent on the weather have lost between 40 to 70 percent of their business." And, he said, that money is mostly gone and can't be made up later.
"Even if we had perfect weather over the next three months, they would only recover part of that revenue," he said.
Charles Ziegler, owner of the Peppertree Campground in Eastford, said the rain had driven away a lot of his business.
"It's not good, and they're looking for more rain this weekend," said Mr. Ziegler, whose camp operates from mid-April through mid-October. "Business is down 50 percent as far as weekend camping goes."
Mr. Ziegler added that if it were not for the campers who had previously booked sites for the entire season, "I'd really be in trouble."
"And some of the seasonals don't even come when the weather's bad," he said. "They stay home because when it rains, there's nothing much to do but sit in your camper, and we don't have cable. I'm still not booked for the Fourth of July. I think they're going to wait until the last minute."
Throughout the state, it rained 16 days from June 1 to 22. With thunderstorms predicted for this weekend, "We certainly have a pretty good shot of breaking the record," said Keith L. Eggleston, climatologist for the Northeast Regional Climate Center at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y. Connecticut's June record was set in 1998 in the town of Windsor Locks, he said, when it rained 20 days that month. Connecticut's June average for the number of days with measurable rainfall is 11. Measurable rainfall is defined as any amount of precipitation more than one-one-hundredth of an inch. As of last Monday, 6.17 inches of rain was recorded to have fallen in the state in June. The record is 13.6, set in 1982.
"This year there's no one cause that we can point to for the rain," said Mr. Eggleston. "It's just a very persistent weather pattern we're in. And we can't blame this one on El Nino."
Nonetheless, the persistent rainfall has sprouted questions as to the cause. At tented graduation ceremonies, rained-out pool parties and barbecues moved indoors, speculation has ranged from whether the rain might be attributed to philosophical queries of whether it can all be traced to a butterfly flapping its wings in Brazil to a volcano acting up somewhere. Actually, the volcano theory isn't so far-fetched. In 1816, the so-called "year without summer," June frosts blanketed the state's farms, decimating crops, while snow fell in New Hampshire, a meteorological anomaly that has been attributed to the eruption of the Mount Tambora volcano in Indonesia.
While this year's weather peculiarities do not even come close to that experience, the rainfall has dealt a harsh blow to a number of industries, shellfishing in particular. The State Department of Agriculture's policy is to shut down some shellfish beds for seven days after a half-inch of rain. With the season's unyielding rain, all shellfish beds have been closed for an unprecedented 10 weeks from Greenwich to Fairfield. Lori Remick, who heads the Connecticut Department of Agriculture Bureau of Aquaculture in Milford, said the bans were due to high fecal coliform counts caused by sewage bypass overflows, plus fertilizers and feral animal waste washed into streams and tributaries that empty into Long Island Sound.
"In the 14 years I've been here it's been the longest wet spell we've had," she said, adding that even in coastal communities from West Haven through Branford, where a one-inch rain results in a shellfish ban, beds have been closed "most of the time."
Leslie Miklovich, co-owner of Hillard Bloom Shellfish in Norwalk, a subsidiary of Tallmadge Brothers, an oystering company in operation since 1875, said the bed closures had forced the company's clammers to move farther out into the Sound, "but when the wind blows, it's dangerous out there."
Also, she said, clams are fetching lower prices, "because the demand isn't there since mostplaces that sell shellfish are along the beach, and people aren't going out."
Some tourist destinations have also seen a sharp decline in business.
"People aren't motivated," said Peter Glankoff, a spokesman for Mystic Seaport. "Our pre-season analysis told us we would be up because of a revival in understanding the American experience. But mom and dad think twice when they get the weather report."
Mr. Glankoff said that every Memorial Day weekend the Mystic Rotary Club sponsors Lobster Fest at the museum, which usually generates 90 percent of the Rotary's annual funds for charitable giving. 
"This year they collected about one-third of that revenue, because people just tended to write the weekend off," Mr. Glankoff said. "And the people I see here appear to be depressed by this rain. This has been a tough year with the war and the economy and still thinking about 9-11. People want a diversion, they want a fun experience, and it's being thwarted by the weather."
Amusement parks and carnivals have also not fared well.
"You're basically licking your battle wounds right now in this industry," said Ronald P. Gustafson, director of communications for Quassy Amusement Park in Middlebury. "This year we had so many events scheduled, and so many events we had to cancel."
"When we look at it, we lost virtually all the major weekend days and nearly all of June," he added. "And today we're sweating bullets again because we have a laser show running Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday."
Founded in 1908, Quassy has been owned by the Frantzis family since 1937, "and they said this is the worst spring season they can recall," Mr. Gustafson said. "You can count the good days on one hand."
A major addition to Quassy this year is a water theme park ironically named Saturation Station. BTo date it has had only one full day of operation. Though a number of the parks ride's can operate in a light rain, Mr. Gustafson added, they often stop with a heavy downpour or the slightest rumble of thunder. Even the park's small railroad stops running because the trains slide when the tracks are wet, he said.
The bad weather also could not have come at a worse time for the state government, already reeling from a budget deficit. Last year the state took in $4 million at the gates of state parks that charge admission. This season, even with a $2 admission increase to $9 and $14 for state residents and nonresidents, respectively, Pamela Adams, director of Connecticut's 95 state parks, conceded, "We won't even come close."
"By and large the facilities have been empty with the exception of wildlife, though we do have people who come in and jog in bad weather," Ms. Adams said. "There are no specific numbers now, but we know that we are extremely low."
Even landscapers and lawn service workers who have had more grass to cut are feeling the weight of the rain, literally. Joseph Keller, who owns Garden of Ideas in Ridgefield, said that balled-and-bagged shrubs and trees were heavier with water and more difficult to lift to plant.
"When it's too wet out there it slows things up, because there's mud everywhere, and it's depressing," Mr. Keller said. "The lawn service people are very busy because the grass keeps growing, but even they can't go out if it's too bad."
Mr. Eggleston of the Northeast Regional Climate Center did offer some hope for the rest of the summer. With this past week's temperatures in the upper 80's and 90's punctuated by a few showers and a thunderstorm, he said the weather was beginning to show signs of a more typical summer pattern.
"I'm at least hoping so," Mr. Eggleston said. "The odds are in favor of us getting back into a more summer-like weather pattern. If I had to place a bet, that's the way I'd go."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Quassy Amusement Park in Middlebury said it was hurt by all the June rain. At left, Joseph Romeo of Joey's by the Shore in Westport. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 4); A golfer in the rain at D. Fairchild Wheeler Golf Course, a municipal course that straddles Fairfield and Bridgeport. Above, lifeguards at Compo Beach in Westport. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (86%); STATE PARKS (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



745 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION; 
Katonah-Lewisboro Offers Revised Budget to Voters

BYLINE:  By MERRI ROSENBERG

DATELINE: CROSS RIVER 

 BODY:
ONE of the big reasons people move to Westchester is its generally strong public school systems. So it's not surprising that voters in all but two of the county's school districts passed their school budgets on June 3. What is surprising is that the two districts that rejected budgets, Katonah-Lewisboro and Valhalla, are far from being troubled districts, and in fact have solid academic reputations. The rejections are perhaps even more surprising given that statewide, 94 percent of the school districts passed their budgets successfully, despite the difficult economy. And Valhalla passed its budget on the second try last Tuesday.The budget defeat in Katonah-Lewisboro reflects a number of issues in a complex , far-flung set of diverse communities, with somewhat attenuated ties to the school district as a whole, people in the district say. The 4,200-student district covers 54 square miles, encompassing Katonah as well as hamlets like Vista, South Salem and Cross River. The district is economically diverse, with lavish weekend homes, modest cottages as well as new houses that sell for $825,000 in recently built housing developments. It can take a half-hour to drive from one end of the district to the other.
 Don Scott, president of the Katonah-Lewisboro school district board of trustees, pointed out that the budget lost by 168 votes, with 2,224 no votes and 2,056 yes votes. 
 "It's been a highly charged environment here for the last two to three years," he said. "There's a schism between those with kids in the school, and those without kids."
While 55 percent of the district's residents don't have children in the schools, some would suggest that the situation is more subtle than the simple division between parents of schoolchildren and others. 
"There are people who tried to send a message that times are hard," said Dr. Robert Lichtenfeld, district superintendent. In Westchester school budgets typically are the only budgets taxpayers vote on directly. The first budget called for $78.3 million in spending. The revised budget, which will be presented for a vote tomorrow is $700,000 lower, coming in at $77.5 million, which reflects a 7 percent increase in budget-to-budget spending. Steps to reduce expenses include eliminating some staff positions at the alternative high school and in kindergarten, eliminating stipends for teachers who coordinate the curriculum and reducing spending on supplies.
Under state law, a second defeat would mean that the district would have to adopt an austerity budget, with any increased spending restricted to no more than 1.9 percent above the current budget. There would also be cutbacks on academic classes, extracurricular activities and other programs. Class size would increase, with some sections rising to 30 students from 24.
Despite its initial vote, Valhalla escaped the austerity budget. The original Valhalla budget for 2003-2004 called for $29,292,556, representing an 8.7 percent increase. It was rejected with 964 no votes cast and 928 yes votes. The Valhalla budget that passed Tuesday calls for an 8.1 percent increase in spending, with a total expenditure of $29,130,956. The revised vote was approved by a vote of 988 yes votes, with 663 no votes. The 16 paper ballots had not been counted as of press time 
In Katonah-Lewisboro, Mr. Scott said: "I don't think it's about money. Lewisboro is among the lowest tax increases in the county, at 4 percent, and it's the lowest tax increase for Lewisboro in 10 years." A series of fliers prepared by a grass-roots group called Citizens for Prudent School Planning, which campaigned to defeat the first budget, as well as some letters to the editor that appeared in the local papers, suggest that there are other reasons. Some cite the superintendent's contract, which calls for a yearly increase of 9 percent for the next three years, although the actual salary, $179,000, still places Dr. Lichtenfeld in the middle of the county's superintendent pay scale. Others contend that the recent teacher contracts caused disgruntlement. Even the cancellation of the eighth-grade trip to Washington has been cited as a reason.
Particularly pointed have been criticisms of the school board (a board, it should be noted, where there has been high turnover). 
"There's a complex history of mistrust, and a feeling we haven't been listened to," said Nancy Euchner, a mother of three sons, one of whom is in a district kindergarten, and whose two older sons are in private schools. A former PTA district leader, she opposed the initial budget. "It's deeper than the recent budget," she said, citing salaries as a big issue for her. "My feelings have intensified this year. The raises to the superintendent and teachers are out of sync with the raises that working members of the community receive."
Some of the blame, said Mr. Scott, could perhaps be attributed to what he termed "referendum exhaustion." 
Since 1995, the community has been asked to vote on a $44 million construction bond, which passed; a $50 million building referendum, in January 2002, which failed; a revised $28 million construction bond, which passed in June 2002; and a $1.2 million referendum, in November of last year, to acquire nine acres of property for playing fields, which was rejected.For parents who moved to the district for the schools, the initial defeat has been discouraging.
"We were very troubled that it was voted down," said John Metaxas, a Katonah resident and father of two children in elementary school who attended a public meeting on Monday at which the revised budget was presented. "I came here to show support for the budget."
Others in the community have been just as perturbed by the tenor of the disagreement surrounding the budget.
And it's gotten nasty at times.
"Any of the pro signs get torn down," said Eve Hundt, a parent of two children in the Katonah-Lewisboro schools who has been active in organizing the Committee to Pass the Budget. A pro-bond sign that she put up one morning before driving her children to school, was torn down by the time she returned home an hour later, she said.
"The area gets blanketed with 'no' signs," she said. "The opposition group has been getting out the message that 'you can't trust the school board,' that 'we're paying too much in taxes.' What's missing is how are we doing in comparison with the rest of the county." During the past decade, the district's enrollment has grown by 60 percent. Districts all over the county are struggling with expanding enrollments, passing bond issues for new construction and experiencing class size increases that leave the schools groaning at the seams. 
So far, the budget skirmishes haven't affected property values. "In general,people move here for our schools, " said Laurel Genovese, a licensed sales agent for Houlihan-Lawrence in South Salem and the mother of two children in the district. "Fifty percent of the moves I handle are within the district." 
Despite the initial defeat, people like Ms. Hundt say the news is not all bad. "The silver lining to the budget defeat is that it's brought an outpouring of support among parents that value the school system, the reputation and what the district has to offer," she said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Robert Lichtenfeld, district superintendent, addresses parents about the next vote on the budget, above. Gerry Kaplowitz put a sign on his car, showing his sentiments. (Photographs by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Tmes)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (94%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (93%); BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



746 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON; 
Goodbye, Mr. Budget

BYLINE:  By WENDY GINSBERG

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
EVERY June, there is a little more sweat on everyone's brow here. It's not the weather -- the State House is air-conditioned. It's more a numbers thing.
 By July 1, the state constitution requires New Jersey's legislators to pass a budget for the next fiscal year. June is invariably a month of arduous partisan squabbles over what to do with surpluses or, worse, how to dig out of deficits. To resolve their differences, for the last 11 years both Republicans and Democrats have relied on one man: Alan R. Kooney, the state's chief financial adviser to the Legislature. 
 Mr. Kooney works for the Office of Legislative Services, a nonpartisan group of state employees who aid lawmakers by drafting their bills, offering legal advice and, of course, helping with the budget. 
As he explains the intricacies of the budget to legislators and prods them through the budget hearing process, Mr. Kooney adds welcome portions of dry wit and attention to detail.
"There are 120 legislators who are bombarded every day with information, misinformation and general static from every direction," Mr. Kooney, a resident of Hopewell Township, said. "It used to be said, back when I started, that legislative bodies suffered from a dearth of information. But in fact, these days the opposite is true; they suffer from an overload of information. And one of the functions that our office provides is essentially to help synthesize a lot of the volume of information down there."
Tomorrow, when the Senate and the Assembly hope to be passing a budget for the fiscal year 2004, Mr. Kooney, 58, will be on the job. But Tuesday is his first day of retirement, a result of having accepted an early-retirement package offered by the government.
Even Mr. Kooney's final act as a civil servant -- retirement -- will serve to help balance the budget he has spent years deciphering.
"He's a great loss," said Corina Eckl, who works for the National Conference of State Legislators and has known Mr. Kooney for more than 20 years. "He has a subtle and unique sense of humor."
Ms. Eckl should know. She once designed a survey for legislative employees that Mr. Kooney found so irritating he accused her of helping write the federal income tax forms.
He laughs about it himself when he talks about his current duties as the state's top number cruncher.
"I was an economics major until I got to the classes that required a lot of math, and then I realized that I was never going to make it as an economist," he said about his days at George Washington University in Washington. "That's funny considering I use numbers all the time. But the numbers I use are pretty much limited to the four functions you can do on a calcluator. In fact, I think I still use the same pocket calculator I was using 10 years ago."
Mr. Kooney left his hometown of Arlington, Va., in 1971 to take a job in New Jersey's government in a move he calls a "historical accident." In his first job, which paid $12,000 a year, he worked in the state Office of Fiscal Affairs evaluating government programs to determine their effectiveness.
Steadily climbing the ranks of the civil-service bureaucracy, Mr. Kooney took his current position in 1992.
Though he works comfortably scrutinizing the finances of the entire state, he still won't attempt to balance his checkbook at home, a task that he leaves to his wife, Sharon. "The money seems so much more real there," he said.
The public and even a lot of people in state government generally pay attention to the state budget in January when it a proposal is introduced by the governor, and then again in June and early July when it goes through the Legislature.
But Mr. Kooney insists that budgeting is a yearlong process. "This budget is almost being seen in historical perspective already because planning for the next budget has already started," he said. "There's a time synchronization going on. If you're a real budgeter, it's already being looked at a year in the future."
Though Mr. Kooney says he is not a numbers wiz, his colleagues say that his ability to dissect the budget is unparalleled.
"The great thing is that he made us a great equalizer with the executive branch, regardless of who was in power," said Senator Wayne Bryant, a Democrat from Camden who is co-chairman of the Budget and Appropriations Committee. "We could compete with them because we had Alan Kooney. We realized that when he came and he gave us information it was right and it was on the mark."
Mr. Kooney said that Senator Robert E. Littell, the Republican who is the other co-chairman of the Senate budgeting committee, would always ask him to condense the main points about the budget so they fit one small index card.
"It used to cause us some consternation," Mr. Kooney said. "But the point he was trying to get to was that you can boil this down in a way that doesn't bias it, and tells them what they need to know and what the decisions are that they need to make."
This budget year has been a nonstop partisan battle. Since Governor McGreevey introduced his proposal, advocates from every conceivable constituency have streamed to the State House to protest and offer their advice.
"Governor McGreevey is basically attempting to ration what have become very scarce state resources," Mr. Kooney said. "And the result is you get demonstrations and you get a lot of activity from people who feel aggrieved by the process. It makes budgeting difficult. If you've seen enough budgets, it's hard to say too many of them are unique. When you gain a perspective over the years, you tend to see there's a fairly regular pattern to it, and a fairly regular way in which disagreements get reconciled."
Mr. Kooney said he was almost certain that Republicans and Democrats would figure out a way to approve a budget by their deadline.
Governor McGreevey is less sure. He has threatened a government shutdown on Tuesday if the budget does not pass.
"You can tend to see this thing in terms of a self-contained mechanism and forget that fact that the budget is sort of this big sloppy clumsy plan," Mr. Kooney said. "It is organic. That's one of the reasons I said it goes on all year round. We don't enact the budget on July 1 and it just sort of sits there as some magisterial document. There are changes being made to it constantly. People think there's an extraordinary precision to this thing. But I can assure you, the budget is dynamic and it's an unruly and unwieldy process."
Last Monday, during a busy last week of work on the budget, Senator Bryant, the co-sponsor of a resolution honoring Mr. Kooney for his service to the state, took nearly 15 minutes during the Senate session to thank his departing colleague.
"You treated all of us in a very bipartisan way, and you absolutely made all of us look better," he said to Mr. Kooney in a speech on the Senate floor. "You never took the glory for it. Your ability to help us navigate and at the same in same time in a nice way chastise us when we were going overboard is endearing."
No one has been tapped to succeed Mr. Kooney. Legislators must appoint a bipartisan board to conduct interviews with candidates for the job. Albert Parroni, executive director of the Office of Legislative Services, said he would appoint a temporary successor until a permanent one is found. He hopes to have everything sorted out by the end of the summer.
Though Mr. Kooney has no specific plan for his retirement, he does plan to improve his tennis game and spend more time with his wife. He said he thought a message he got in a fortune cookie last week was a telling prophecy: "Sometimes travel to new places leads to great transformation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan R. Kooney, the chief financial adviser to the Legislature, outside the State House in Trenton. As of July 1, he'll be retired. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); EARLY RETIREMENT (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); INCOME TAX (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



747 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: Page Two: June 22-28; 
The Week Ahead

BYLINE:  By David Leonhardt

 BODY:
 * WASHINGTON EMPTIES Congress will be in recess, with some members expected to travel to South Carolina for the funeral of Strom Thurmond, who died on Thursday at the age of 100. 

* REALITY CHECK The economy will get an important health check on Thursday when the Labor Department releases the June employment report. The most important indicator: whether jobs were created for the first time since January -- even if, as many economists expect, the unemployment rate, now at 6.1 percent, rises slightly. David Leonhardt



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); JOB CREATION (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (84%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



748 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: A Solution To Health Care Crisis 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "The Rising Price of Getting Well" (June 22) failed, as do many other articles about health-care issues, to distinguish between "cost" and "price." 
The cost of health care is related to its fundamental value as determined by the immutable forces of an aging population in an advanced technocratic society. Over time, the cost of care must increase. 
 But the price of care is determined in the health-care marketplace and is arbitrarily related to the system's need for economic viability and desire for profit. Cost of care is largely predetermined and unchangeable while the price we pay is a marketplace phenomenon. 
 The paradox is that while competition in the managed care industry may lower the price of health care, it can do so only for a limited time because the cost of care continues to climb. If H.M.O.'s don't acknowledge this basic truth they go out of business.
 Further, competition between health systems in a closed market actually accelerates the increase in cost of care because of the unnecessary reduplication of providers, technology and institutions. Competing systems may temporarily decrease prices but they increase the cost of care in the long run.
 What is glaringly apparent is that our employment-based system of managed health care is an untenable paradox of open enrollment and restricted service that increasingly fails to provide us the health-care safety net enjoyed by the rest of the industrialized world.

Lawrence A. Danto, M.D.
Truckee, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); AGING (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



749 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2509 words

HEADLINE: Georgetown on the Delaware 

BYLINE:  By JILL P. CAPUZZO 

 BODY:
ON any given morning, a handful of Trenton's power brokers can be found pumping iron at the Center Club or pounding the towpath that runs along the Delaware Raritan Canal here. Most Friday nights, many of those same people crowd into the back room at Rick's restaurant on Main Street to share war stories from a tough workweek and to eat linguini. On Saturday morning, you might bump into a former United States senator having coffee at the Lambertville Trading Station, and on Sunday night there's a good chance the governor's chief of staff will be eating at Bell's Taven.
 For these officials and many others, the combination of small-town charm and a strong sense of community has made Lambertville the place to live outside the state capital. Just 12 miles north of Trenton, this Victorian-era town of 3,856 residents has always drawn its share of state workers in search of community, but recently it has become home to a veritable Who's Who of Trenton including Governor McGreevey's chief of staff, James P. Fox, and the commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection, Bradley M. Campbell, both of whom moved to Lambertville last year. 
 Their neighbors include Caren Franzini, executive director of the Economic Development Authority; Jeff Tittel, director of the state chapter of the Sierra Club; Monique Purcell, the deputy commissioner of the Department of Agriculture; Bob Garrenger, assistant counsel to the governor; Karen Kominsky, Mr. McGreevey's deputy chief of staff; Maura McManimon, policy adviser in the Department of Community Affairs; Barbara Walsh, area planner at the Coalition on Affordable Housing; Eric Richards, legislative director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.; Ellen Mellody, a spokeswoman for the governor; and John Leyman and Joseph Donnelly, task force aide and spokesman, respectively, for the Assembly Democrats.
 Living just outside of town and regularly spotted in town are Eileen McGuiness, former Gov. Christie Whitman's chief of staff; Kathy Krotty, executive director of the Senate Democrats; and former Senator Robert G. Torricelli, who recently bought a commercial property in town where he will move his office.
 Mr. Tittel said that when he moved here five and a half years ago, Lambertville wasn't particularly trendy, but that "it's got this kind of cachet for now."
 "It's very livable," he said. "There are nice restaurants and good places to listen to music, but you can also go kayaking. It's like Dupont Circle, or maybe a not so upscale Georgetown, surrounded by farmland."
 In the not too distant past, Princeton was the ZIP code of choice for movers and shakers working in Trenton, but now those officials are opting for Lambertville, just across the river from New Hope, Pa., the Bucks County artist community.
 "It has a much more appealing quality of life, more neighborliness, a much stronger sense of local community and a lot less traffic than what most people report about for Princeton," said Mr. Campbell, who put in a bid on his three-story row house in the center of town as soon as he saw it.
 As it turned out, he was bidding against another member of the McGreevey cabinet, Ida Castro, the commissioner of personnel. After losing out to Mr. Campbell, Ms. Castro moved elsewhere, with no hard feelings, according to Mr. Campbell.
 "I claim that I outsmarted her, she claims that I overpaid, so everyone is satisfied," he said.

Location, Location, Location
 Having buyers eager to snatch up desirable addresses is a relatively new phenomenon for Lambertville. Bought from the Delaware Indians in 1703, this 1.1 square miles of land on the banks of the Delaware River soon became an important transportation point on the route between Philadelphia and New York. It became a major industrial center with the opening of the Delaware Raritan Canal in 1834, followed by the building of the Pennsylvania-Belvidere Railroad that was based here. By the late 19th century, more than 3,000 factory workers lived and worked in Lambertville, which also became home to many wealthy merchants and factory owners, who built Italianate and French Second Empire-style mansions in the north end of town.
 It continued to thrive well into the 20th century, but its population dropped sharply in the 1960's, when homeowners began discovering the bucoloic appeal of the surrounding countryside in Hunterdon County. Throughout the 1970's and much of the 80's, many row houses and commercial buildings were abandoned or in serious disrepair, while the grand homes were divided up into apartments.
 Tapping into urban renewal funds, Lambertville developed programs in the late 1980's to attract businesses and homeowners back and began to restore some of its historically significant properties. Today, homes under $200,000 are a rarity, according to one real estate agent, Tom McMillan, and the demand for larger homes is fierce, with buyers turning the converted apartment buildings back into single-family homes.
 "It's harder and harder to find distressed properties that haven't been renovated," said Mr. McMillan, of Weidel Realtors. "Instead, you've got people with substantial funds coming in here buying a normal home and doing major redesigns and renovations. They feel it's a safe investment. If it continues the way it's been going, I'd say in the next five years you'll see some million-dollar homes here."
 The town's commerical district is bursting at the seams with upscale restaurants, art galleries and antique shops. Old factories have been converted to office buildings and the residential neighborhoods - south and north of downtown, and across Route 29 in the area known as "the hills" - continue to show signs of a facelift.
 According to Mayor Dave DelVecchio, the assessed value of real eastate in Lambertville has increased to $412 million from $250 million in the 12 years he has been in office. This resurgence has not, however, driven out families who have lived here for generations, he said.
 "We are not just a gentrified community," Mr. DelVecchio added. "We're a healthy mix of people who were born and raised here, and people who are now discovering us."

Friday Nights at Rick's
 One of Lambertville's greatest appeals is that everything is within walking distance, which is lucky for the residents, since parking - and driving - here have become challenging.
 A draw of the 19th-century home Mr. Campbell bought was that it is just a few doors down from Rick's, where the Friday night dinner has provided a welcome social outlet for the commissioner, who, before joining the McGreevey administration, lived in Philadelphia, North Carolina and Washington.
 Mr. Campbell is not the only one who has found a "family" at Rick's. Others who regularly congregate there are Mr. Fox, Ms. Kominsky and her husband, Mayor DelVechio; Timothy C. McDonough, the executive director of the New Jersey Highway Authority; John Peter Holly, the conductor of the Trenton Symphony; Henry Hose, an employee of the State Museum who helps prepare exhibits in the fine arts department, and Steve Stegman, a marketing manager with the state Office of Travel and Tourism office and a Lambertville councilman.
 Some of those who show up for the Friday roundtable travel quite a distance. Mr. McDonough, for instance lives about an hour north in Hope Township, where he is also mayor. Nancy Bryne, executive director of the state Office of Travel and Tourism, is a frequent guest, traveling from West Windsor. Susan Bass Levin, the commissioner of the Department of Community Affairs, who lives in Cherry Hill, has stopped by a couple of times. Even Governor McGreevey made it to one of the dinners.
 "Rick's has turned into Lambertville's equivalent of the Algonquin Table in New York," said Mr. Donnelly, who stopped by once.
 Listening to the people squeezed around the T-shaped table in the wood-paneled back room on a recent Friday, one would think they had been friends for years. In fact, many of them have just become acquainted in the last year, since this end-of-week dinner gathering became a weekly ritual.
 Mr. Holly, who has lived in Lambertville 11 years, said he first stumbled upon the group a year ago, when he voiced concerns about the upkeep of Mount Hope cemetery and was told to stop by Rick's on Friday night to speak to the mayor. As it turned out, this was the Friday after Mr. Torricelli announced that he was dropping his campaign for re-election to the Senate. Mr. Torricelli also showed up at Rick's that night and "it quickly became clear that we weren't going to be talking about the cemetary," Mr. Holly said.
 Claiming to be the one regular at these dinners not directly connected to state government, Mr. Holly said he was "fascinated by the high-powered discussions I hear going on from time to time here."
 With so many influential people in one room at one time, the group had to impose a "cone of silence" - an image borrowed from the 1970's sitcom "Get Smart" - that dictates that no business will take place at these dinners.
 The rule was imposed to curb Al Komjathy, a lobbyist and local resident who simply couldn't resist an opportunity to press the governor's aides on behalf of his clients, which include Comcast, Ringling Brothers and R.J. Reynolds. Of course, the conversation inevitably turns to politics, but when it veers toward lobbying, the offender is asked to cut it out, according to the mayor.

The Booster, the Boosted
 Then again, it doesn't hurt to have friends in high places. Mr. DelVecchio can rattle off numerous state-financed projects the city has benefited from since he became mayor: $350,000 to restore the library; $1 million to shore up the canal bank; $275,000 to fix South Franklin Street; $300,000 for the Fisherman's Mark nonprofit organization.
 "I never make any apologies for anything I get for the city through my connections," Mr. DelVecchio said. "We don't receive anything inappropriate, but it certainly is a positive thing to have people like Jamie and Brad in our community. If people are more familiar with something, that always helps. If you're going for a bank loan for your business, you stand a better chance if the banker knows your place."
 Many credit Mr. DelVecchio, and his ceaseless boosterism of Lambertville, for getting so many government officials to move here. A former member of the Trenton power base himself, Mr. DelVecchio ran former Gov. James Florio's camaign and worked in his treasury department. Over the last decade, he has kept his political ties to people like Mr. Fox, who was his supervisor in the Florio administration.
 "It has a lot to do with David and his association with state government," said Mr. Stegman, the councilman. "When these folks are relocating to New Jersey, he'll say: 'Where are you going to live? You have to move to Lambertville.' "
 Mr. Stegman is no slouch in promoting Lambertville. On weekends, he works with Mr. McMillan selling real estate (he was Mr. Campbell's broker) and describes his new job with the state tourism office as "a way to make people aware of the events taking place in the state." This includes events like Lambertville's Shad Festival, the annual street festival that Mr. Stegman has served as chairman of for the last 12 years.
 Lambertville is a place that defines itself by its special events. In addition to the Shad Festival in late April, when some 30,000 people show up to buy craft items and sample shad fish, the town has a hidden garden tour, a Halloween house decorating contest and a picnic or parade for just about any occasion. Last week a community picnic was held to mark the 225th anniversary of George Washington's march to the Battle of Monmouth.
 In March, it was "Zora Day" honoring Lambertville's most famous resident by far, Zora Andrich, the 30-year-old substitute teacher and clerk at the local gym who won the heart of Fox Tv's "Joe Millionaire" - only to announce soon afterward that they were splitting up. To lift her spirits, and draw a bit of attention to his city, the mayor declared March 29 Zora Day, parading Ms. Andrich, who lived in an apartment over Bell's Tavern until the publicity drove her out of town, down Main Street in a horsedrawn carriage.
 The mayor is also quick to tap the city's residents to help out with these events, and rank has no privilege. Mr. Campbell said he was assigned the job of parking cars at this year's Shad Festival. In return, he is invited to the mayor's house for Thanksgiving dinner. Even though her sister and mother live in town, the mayor's wife seems more attached to her adopted family, of which she is considered the "den mother."
 "It's really nice," Ms. Kominsky said. "We have each other over for dinner. We celebrate our birthdays together."
 All this closeness also means forfeiting a little privacy, of course. People living here and working in Trenton have to use some discretion, when, for instance, they see the guy who signs their paycheck buying a gallon of milk while dressed in his tattered sweats.
 "We live so close together, sometimes jsut a fence separates us," Ms. Purcell said. "But we establish a way not to intrude on each other's lives."
 Noting that sometimes the opposite problem exists, she added: "I have friends who live three blocks away and I never bump into them. I have to actually seek them out."
 Even in a friendly community like Lambertville, the unspoken social rules can be tricky. Not everyone flocks to Rick's, for example. Mr. Tittel said his Sierra Club crowd - the kind that wears Birkenstocks and eats tofu - prefers to congregate at the Inn of the Hawke, whereas Mr. Donnelly said he would rather spend his time working on his house or playing with his children than socializing.
 The one place where nearly everyone seems to cross paths is the Center Club, the popular fitness center in the building that once housed the Trenton Oyster Cracker factory. Here, members can choose the standard exercise equipment, the yoga studio off the large main room or the Pilates center upstairs. Ralph Manza, known by some as the "trainer to the stars," is the personal trainer of 18 locals, including Mr. Komjathy, the mayor and his wife.
 Mr. Manza, a retired New York City police officer, said Ms. Kominsky was his best pupil, while the mayor, he said, like most men, often resists direction.
 "He's here four times a week and he's pretty good, but he campaigns while he's working out," the trainer said. "It makes it a little difficult, but we get by."
 Ms. Mellody, though a member of the Center Club, prefers to get her exercise outdoors, running along the towpath that borders the canal or across the bridge to New Hope. She also keeps a kayak on her front porch. For her, the biggest appeal of Lambertville is its mix of country charm and urban energy, all just far enough away from Trenton.
 "It's a beautiful drive home, straight up along the river," Ms. Mellody said. "Then you get to Lambertville, and there are so many opportunities to de-stress after a long day of work. You can bike on the towpath, kayak on the river or go listen to some cool jazz bands."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 20, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 29 about the increasing number of state officials who are choosing to live in Lambertville misspelled the surname of one of them, the executive director of Senate Democrats. She is Kathleen Crotty, not Krotty.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Counterclockwise from above right: The Lambertville Trading coffee-house; Ralph Manza, a trainer, with Mayor Dave DelVecchio at the Center Club and downtown Lambertville. At a picnic, a policeman chatted with Karen Kominsky, deputy chief of staff for Governor McGreevey; Mr. DelVecchio; and Bradley Campbell, state commissioner of environmental protection. At right, Mr. Campbell and a picnicker in patriotic colors.; The commercial district of Lambertville is full of upscale restaurants, art galleries and antique shops. The town is also known for special events. A community picnic, below, brought out Caren Franzini, executive director of the state Economic Development Authority.; Mayor Dave DelVecchio embraced Merle Citron, who writes a "ChitChat" column in the weekly Beacon. Many a politician joined the crowd at a recent community picnic, below. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (54%)

PERSON: JOE DONNELLY (50%) CAPUZZO, JILL P 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) LAMBERTVILLE (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2003 



750 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2273 words

HEADLINE: Exurbia and God: Megachurches in New Jersey 

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: ROCKAWAY 

 BODY:
IT was once home to a technology company, a sprawling one-and-two-story building in a boxy utilitarian style that could be called industrial modern, a beige stone and concrete "L" on 107 acres of land. Hardly the place one would envision for a chuch.
 But that is exactly what officials of Christ Church, an evangelical Protestant congregation, have in mind for the former Agilent Technologies site that the church is uying in this large semirural township for more than $14 million. So far, the plan seems to have drawn little notice here. 
 "We need the space," said the Rev. David Ireland, 41, the founder and senior pastor of the church. Its current building in Montclair, a 900-seat Romanesque structure with Tiffany windows, which once served a Baptists congregation, is insufficient for the 5,000 members who worship there each week, he said.
 "We've outgrown the cathedral for a number of years now," Pastor Ireland said. "We want a campus setting so we can be able to serve the community and also our congregation in a much more complete way, from athletics to a community center to our Community Development Corporation to having fewer worship services, having more people sitting at one time together.
 Christ Church made its offer in March for the rolling grass campus of Agilent Technologies, a spin-off of Hewlett-Packard that closed operations here last October.
 The sale is expected to be final in late summer, and Dr. Ireland hopes to go before the township planning board in September for a zoing variance to allow Christ church to renovate a little more than half of the 283,000-square-foot-building and demolish the rest to make way for a 3,000-seat sanctuary. That would allow the congregation to come together in two services each Sunday instead of the five now offered in Montclair. Renovation and construction would cost about $17 million, he said.
 Christ Church finds itself in step with other rapidly growing congregations known as megachurches that need space to expand. They are buying unlikely places like large food stores, shopping centers, armories and, in the case of Faithful Central Bible Church in Los Angeles, the former Great Western Forum where the Lakers and the Kings basketball teams played until 1999. As defined by John N. Vaughan, a research, megachurches, which are largely conservative Protestant, are as those that attract at least 2,000 worshipers a week.
 In New Jersey, one such church, Faith Fellowship Ministries World Outreach Center, a charismatic congregation of 3,600 families, began moving from Edison in 1996 and built a 2,900-seat sanctuary on a 14-acre site in Sayreville that was once used by Public Service Electric and Gas Company as a training center.
 At least 700 megachurches in the United States share common characteristics with Christ Church and they have almost three million members, said Dr. Vaughan, founder and director of Church Growth Today, an independent research center in Bolivar, Mo.
 In a report issued in 2000, Dr. Vaughan said New Jersey ranked 31st in the number of people who attend megachurches. But the number has probably soared since then, he said recently, citing expanding congregations in such megachurches as Hawthorne Gospel Church in Passaic County, Faith Fellowship Iministries in Sayreville and Bethany Baptist Church in Lindenwold near Philadelphia.
 Bethany Baptist, a Pentecostal church with 13,500 members that is increasing by 4,000 members a year, is probably the largest megachurch in New Jersey, Dr. Vaughan said.
 "One reason why churches are building on large existing properties is parking," Dr. Vaughan said. "It's less expensive. You have ready-made parking, and you have room to expand. You're able to expand without having a major impact on neighboring properties."
 Scott Thumma, a sociologist who is a faculty associate at the Hartford Institute for Religion Research at Hartford Seminary in Connecticut, says most megachurches are in California, Texas, Florida and Georgia. Only 6 percent are in the Northeast. In a study two years ago, Dr. Thumma reported that the most rapid growth came in the last 20 years, primarily in suburbs around cities of 250,000 or more.
 His study also showed that the growth of mega-churches was driven by the charisma of highly visible senior pastors, 88 percent of whom are white and 6 percent are African-American like Dr. Ireland. 
 Christ Church, established by pastor Ireland with seven other people in an Irvington catering hall in 1986, had 500 members when it bought the First Baptist Church in Montclair for a reported $1.2 million in 1994.
 First Baptist Church was built in 1911 during the leadership of the Rev. Harry Emerson Fosdick, a liberal clergyman who later became nationally known as pastor of the Riverside Church in Manhattan.
 Gustav Niebuhr, writing for The New York Times at the time of the sale, said the transaction between First Baptist as the old mainstream congregation and the evangelical Christ Church was "emblematic of a major shift in American Protestantism." Over three decades, he said, liberal and moderate mainline Protestant denominations like the Presbyterians and Episcopalians had lost members while evangelical churches had flourished.
 Many churches have radio and television ministries. During his sermons, Dr. Ireland's image is projected on large TV monitors and the sermon is recorded for later broadcast on radio and television to an estimated 50 million households in New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and California.
 He is a charismatic speaker, and the appeal of his sermons, he believes, is that they focus on the Bible not only as spiritual resource but as practical guide for everyday life, with themes such as "How Can I Be Happy?" and "How to Affair-Proof Your Marriage."
 He also has written five books, including two that the church published under its Impact Publishing House imprint: "What Color Is Your God? A New Approach to Developing a Multicultural Lifestyle" and "Failure Is Written in Pencil: How to Turn Your Failures Into Success."
 Like most megachurches, Christ Church has a large paid staff and army of volunteers to administer some 50 church and social outreach programs. It employs nine ministers, four of them full time, and 50 full-time employees and can count on 400 to 500 volunteers, Dr. Ireland said. The programs include youth education, a legal and medical clinic, a financial planning course, a drug and alcohol recovery program, a counseling unit and marriage- and family-enrichment programs.
 The move by Christ Church to the former Agilent complex here represents a kind of full-circle spiritual journey for Dr. Ireland. A former consulting engineer and self-described "scientific atheist," he became a believer and now finds himself bringing religion into a place that once symbolized science and technology.
 "I was a modern-day Paul before my conversion," Pastor Ireland said.
 He grew up in Rosedale, Queens. His father was an accountant and his mother an education consultant in early childhood development. He went to a Methodist Church until he turned 13 and his parents no longer made him go.
 After attending Brooklyn Tech, the elite high school in New York, he received a partial athletic scholarship to play baseball at Fairleigh Dickinson University, where he earned a degree in mechanical engineering. He won a full academic scholarship to Stevens Institute of Technology and received his master's in civil engineering.
 "I used to terrorize the Christians on the campus, bringing up philosophical arguments in debate," he said of his time at Fairleigh. "I did it to justify my own atheist position, but all along I was searching."
 One night after receiving his undergraduate degree and while sitting on his bed in his dorm on the Teaneck campus, feeling forlorn and empty, he asked God if he was there and, if so, to give him faith. In that instant, he recalls, "I became born again." The time and date - 10 p.m. July 6, 1982 - are lodged in his memory.
 He began attending church again. As he got more involved with church activities during his years as a consulting engineer for a number of New Jersey engineering companies, he began to think he would be happier as a minister. He began studies at the church he was attending, the New Ark Evangelistic Revival Church in East Orange, and was ordained and licensed in 1983. He later got a master's of divinity degree from Alliance Theological Seminary in Nyack and a Ph.D. in organizational leadership with a minor in divinity from Regent University in Virginia Beach, Va.
 In June 1986, at the age of 24, he and his wife, Marlinda, invited six friends to a catering hall in Irvington and asked them to help start a church. It became known as the Tabernacle of Love Christian Center, and over the next eight years it held services at the Holiday Inn in Springfield, in the multipurpose room of St. Andrew and Holy Communion Episcopal Church in South Orange and at catering halls in Union and Bloomfield. When it move to Montclair, it took the name Christ Church. The current congregation represents 25 nations and is 80 percent black and 20 percent white, Asian or other. Members travel from bergen, Essex, Hudson, Morris, Union and Warren Counties and New York City and Rockland County in New York. 
 Dr. Thumma said in a telephone interview that megachurches represent less than 1 percent of the 350,000 congregations in the country. "But," he added, "their importance in society and the formative shaping of what religion is in the country is astronomical compared to their size."
 Indeed, aside from providing Bible-focused services accompanied by large electronically amplified orchestras and choirs performing everything from hymns to country music, many megachurches offer secular facets like health clubs and, in one Houston church, a McDonald's restaurant, to draw people into the church environment.
The proposed Christ Church campus on green Pond Road here would house administrative offices, an elementary school, a gymnasium and fitness center, a banquet hall, a small religious museum, a gift shop, a school of performing arts, a computer learning center, a center for adult leadership development courses and a community development courses and a community development corporation that is using a $120,000 grant from President Bush's faith initiative program for a program to help teenagers be sexually abstinent.
 The new sanctuary woudl feature stadium seating,a nd the gym and fitness center, baseball and soccer fields, basketball and tennis courts would be open to the community, Dr. Ireland said.
 He said he thought few of the nearly 23,000 people in this 45-square-mile township were aware of the church's purchase of the property or its plan to seek approval of a change in use. But he said he had met with the mayor, Louis S. Sceusi, and found him to be "very positive."
 Mayor Sceusi seemed less committal in a telephone interview. He confirmed that he had met with Pastor Ireland but was concerned about losing the tax revenue that a commercial or industrial company, like Agilent, formerly one of the town's largest employers with 1,000 workers, would pay for use of the site.
 "We have a small mix of light industry, and Agilent was one of the bigger companies, almost 2 percent of the tax revenue," Mayor Sceusi said. "As I said to Reverend Ireland, I am concerned with the fact we're going to lose a large tax payment. I would prefer it to be commercial and not put a burden on the taxpayers."
 For his part, Dr. Ireland says the loss in taxes would be offset by money spent by members of the congregation. "We did an economic impact study, and we showed we will be able to provide $6 million a year into the community based on our parishioners frequenting their various enterprises from stores to restaurants to using various vendors in the community," he said. "that's $6 million a year to offset $700,000 in ratables."
 The mayor is also concerned about increased traffic on Green Pond Road. But Dr. Ireland says the two Sunday services, with an hour in between, would have minimal effect on traffic.
 The largest municipality in Morris County, Rockaway Township is home to Rockaway Townsquare, a shopping mall with mroe than 200 stores, and to Picatinny Arsenal, a weapons testing center near Dover that has been making munitions since 1879. The township has another evangelical church, the Green Pond Bible Chapel, in addition to a Jewish temple, a Lubavitcher learning center, two Catholic churches and Presbyterian, Lutheran and Methodist congregations.
 The mayor said members of Christ Church would probably have no problem fitting into the largely white, middle-income Rockaway, which he called "a town with a lot of character" and history.
 Nonetheless, some New Jersey churches in the past have had trouble getting variances when moving to a new town. Faith Fellowship Ministries was one of them. The Sayreville zoning board turned down its application, in part because it said the presence of a church would discourage businesses from moving to the site where the church wanted to build. A Superior Court judge in New Brunswick reversed the decision, saying the ruling was unreasonable.
 Pastor Ireland is optimistic that things will go smoothly here.
 "We're not asking for any setbacks," he said. "We're not asking for any lessening of parking requirements, we're not asking for height changes. Nothing."
 He added, "We're just simply saying we want to convert this use into a church and we think it's going to be better for the community, rather than having a research building that looks very industrial in its facade."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christ Church congregation has outgrown this building in Montclair and is planning to move to the former campus of a technology company in Rockaway Township. (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Congregants worshiping at their building in Montclair.; The Rev. David Ireland on the property in Rockaway where Christ Church wants to build a sanctuary that would seat 3,000 worshipers. He started the church in 1986 with seven other people. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); SUBURBS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); RETAILERS (69%); BASKETBALL (64%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%) RELIGION AND CHURCHES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; CHRIST CHURCH (ROCKAWAY, NJ) 

COMPANY: AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES INC (91%); PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO (60%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES INC 

TICKER: A (NYSE) (91%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (60%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY; ROCKAWAY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2003 



751 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Upper West Side; 
Flamboyant Landmark Hotel, Restored for Tourists

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
THE HOTEL BELLECLAIRE at 77th Street and Broadway has gone though various phases in the century it has been operating on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
 When it opened in 1903, it was state of the art, with a Moorish-style private dining room, a Mission-style library and a Flemish-style men's cafe that featured a stock exchange ticker -- the equivalent of today's wireless Internet access. 
 The building was an early commission for the architect Emery Roth, who is responsible for many of the buildings in the area, and he designed a facade that was a mix of Art Nouveau and Vienna Secession styles so distinctive and flamboyant that it would later be designated a landmark.
One early guest was the the Russian writer Maxim Gorky. He was asked to leave when word leaked out that the woman accompanying him was not his wife. Other New York hotels rejected them as well in the name of family values, and they ended up staying with a political supporter in Staten Island. Another famous guest was Mark Twain, who was sponsoring Gorky's lecture tour. 
Those days of prominence have long faded. The elegant public spaces were replaced with more practical, rent-paying retail stores on Broadway. The entrance, in fact, was moved around to 77th Street to maximize the amount of retail space on Broadway.
LIKE most older hotels, the Belleclaire has gone through an economic cycle. The early grandeur gave way to inadequate maintenance and a decline in desirability for travelers who have choices. Then the hotel became a place that housed youth groups and people displaced from their housing by fire and other disasters. 
One of the low points came on a stormy night in 1997, when a three-foot-by-five-foot chunk of concrete fell from the building's facade and crashed down to Broadway and broke into pieces, partly closing a block of the street. Fortunately, because of the bad weather, there was no one on the sidewalk as the piece fell.
Now that facade is being restored to something closely approaching its 1903 appearance, under the watchful direction of the Landmarks Preservation Commission. The guest rooms are being upgraded as well in a style described as neo-Scandinavian, with limestone panels replacing tile in bathrooms and new carpeting going down on the floors as renovation proceeds. 
Today, the hotel is being marketed as a family-friendly place near cultural institutions at nightly rates of $119 to $129 -- well below the city average of $170. Much is made of the location amid the low-rise brownstones of the adjacent blocks and closeness to Central Park.
But the legacy of the recent past remains. Of the 240 rooms in the 10-story hotel, only 185 are available for transient use. The rest are the single-room occupancy homes of permanent guests. Fears were expressed when the renovations began that one more place for lower-income people to live was being eliminated, but the rent-controlled spaces were protected.
Nor was the restoration process without its flaws. One reviewer reported being shown a room with wires dangling where a light fixture was supposed to be. 
"The hotel got run down," said Shimmie Horn, whose Triumph Hospitality group bought the property in 1999. "Most of the work since 2000 has been to bring the rooms up to tourist standards." But he said neighborhood residents had generally welcomed the upgrading of the property and the change in clientele. "In the old days, police were here a lot," he said.
To appeal to upper-scale tourists, a massage room and a gym with various exercise equipment have been installed as amenities for adults, and the guests rooms have been equipped with Nintendo and CD players as diversions for younger guests.
The exuberant design of the building, which include towers, setbacks and balconies, means there are round and oddly shaped rooms on each floor, with no two exactly the same. This is not necessarily a drawback. "The round rooms are our most requested," said KaraGoudie, the general manager.
Restoring the exterior, at a cost of more than $1 million, has been a much more difficult undertaking than the interior renovations Mr. Horn said. Every gargoyle, lion's head and other embellishment had to be examined and repaired, if possible, or replicated if not possible 
Work on the facade has been under way since the scaffolding was erected in 2000. So far 10 lion heads and four female heads have been replaced and more than 50 feet of balcony railing restored. Seven limestone pilasters running the full height of the building have also been restored.
More than stonework is involved. New windows have to follow the pattern of what was originally installed: wooden sashes with 12 horizontal panes of glass over three vertical panes. Since some of the windows in the rounded parts of the building have curved window sashes, the replacements must be curved as well. "They cost about four times as much as a standard window," Mr. Horn said. "And we had to submit a window sample to Landmarks."
Work on the Broadway side of the hotel is about finished, he said, and he expects the scaffolding and netting to come down in July, if the landmarks office approves. Then work will start on the 77th Street side.
"Because the building is an individual landmark, we had to be careful about everything," Mr. Horn said. "For a while, the color of the mortar we were using became an issue."
Marketing a hotel on the Upper West Side is different than with one in Midtown, said Mr. Horn, whose group also owns the Iroquois Hotel on 44th Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues. "You can't get businessmen to go up to 77th Street," he said. "The Iroquois is a corporate hotel; this is a family hotel."
The operating rhythms of the two properties reflect the differing clientele. The Iroquois tends to be busy during the workweek and slow on weekends, Mr. Horn said. Weekends are busy times at the Belleclaire. Like all hotel operators in New York, Mr. Horn has seen a drop-off in demand since Sept. 11, 2001, but he has used aggressive pricing to help fill the transient rooms.
BECAUSE some of the rooms in the hotel are large, they can accommodate several beds, allowing a family with children to stay in one room. "We can have a room with a king-size bed and two doubles," Ms. Goudie said.
Mr. Horn, a lawyer who got into the hotel business when his grandfather, who owned the Iroquois, died in 1996, said a large part of the demand for hotel rooms came from relatives of people living in the neighborhood visiting to attend weddings, bar mitzvahs and other social or religious events.
For tourists wanting to explore the city, the various Web sites describing the property emphasize its location in a residential neighborhood, rather then in the commercial core of Manhattan. "Enjoy the city like a real New Yorker," one advises.
A little operating ingenuity helps supply some of the services these travelers expect. "We do our room service via the Manhattan Diner," Ms. Goudie said, gesturing to the restaurant on the opposite side of Broadway.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hotel Belleclaire, shown in an early 20th-century photo from the book "Manhattan Hotels 1880-1920" by Jeff Hirsh, and Shimmie Horn in a restored room. (Willie J. Allen Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); HISTORIC SITES (74%); WRITERS (72%); FAMILY (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); WEATHER (68%); RETAILERS (65%); DISPLACED PERSONS (63%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



752 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: Baseball Analysis; 
Catching On at Plate, Matsui Makes Major Contributions

BYLINE:  By JACK CURRY

 BODY:
Hideki Matsui's style is as unassuming as it could be for a player whose fame in Japan has been compared to the combined popularity of Michael Jordan and Michael Jackson. Matsui eases into the Yankees' clubhouse quietly, nodding or saying hello in both English and Japanese before settling into his locker for another work day. He attacks his gargantuan task with a simple, soft approach.
 To watch Matsui play baseball or to watch him deal with people is to see someone intent on pleasing those around him. Matsui is playing for the most storied franchise and the most demanding owner in a new country while millions of people in his home country scour news media outlets to learn about every breath he takes. Yet Matsui handles the scrutiny as casually as he orders rainbow sprinkles with his vanilla cone. 
 The relaxed approach has helped him remain confident in a season that has already been tumultuous. He has had droughts, and the Yankees have had doubts. George Steinbrenner, the team's principal owner, wondered about his $21 million investment after Matsui seemed to spend about a month smacking grounders to second base. This ground-ball machine was the man who hit 50 homers last year? Matsui's slump almost put the dependable batting coach Rick Down on unemployment. 
But Matsui has experienced a resurgence, in part because he has learned to recognize and hit two-seam fastballs, a pitch he rarely saw in Japan. Matsui clubbed a grand slam and drove in five runs yesterday afternoon as the Yankees defeated the Mets, 7-1, at Yankee Stadium in the first game of a two-stadium doubleheader. He had four hits, knocked in a run and scored twice as the Yankees won again, 9-8, at Shea Stadium last night. 
Matsui lined out in his first at-bat in the Bronx, then reached base in nine straight plate appearances across two boroughs.
"I think it was a great day over all for me," Matsui said through his interpreter. "To be able to contribute in both games feels even better."
When a reporter asked Matsui if he wanted to play a third game, he said, "I think I can go 4 for 4 again." Matsui paused only a moment before adding, "That was a joke."
As productive and as passionate as Matsui has been lately, the Mets have been the opposite. They have been listless and lousy, especially while losing five consecutive games to the Yankees in the last nine days.
No one expected the rookie Jeremy Griffiths to defeat the 300-game winner Roger Clemens. But in the second game, the Mets had Tom Glavine, a future Hall of Famer, facing Brandon Claussen, who was making his first start. The Mets fizzled early when Glavine surrendered homers to Alfonso Soriano and Derek Jeter. The Yankees sprinted to a 9-0 lead and were polishing off another victory before the Mets scored eight late runs to spare themselves some embarrassment. 
The opener was scoreless when Matsui batted with the bases loaded in the third, so the Mets had not officially abandoned hope. After the count drifted to 2-1, Griffiths released a flat, 92-mile-an-hour fastball and Matsui drilled it into the third row of seats in right field.
Matsui cruised around the bases, accepted congratulations in the dugout and slipped as he climbed the steps for his second curtain call of the season. He has shown he has good timing; his other grand slam came in the Yankees' home opener. Matsui is 7 for 14 with the bases loaded.
Do not tell Steinbrenner, but Matsui's revival did not coincide with his criticism last month. It actually started when Manager Joe Torre lowered Matsui to seventh in the lineup to help him relax. In the last 22 games, Matsui has raised his average to .305 from .250 by going 38 for 81 (.469) with 5 homers and 27 runs batted in. Once an enigma, Matsui leads the Yankees in batting average and is tied for the team lead in R.B.I., with 60.
"I think he's going to be a great player," Torre said. "Whether he's recognized as a great player league-wise, I don't know.I don't think there's anybody you'd want hitting with men on base more than him. Maybe a few guys as much as him, but not more. To me, that makes him a great teammate."
When Matsui, who is batting a team-best .348 with runners in scoring position, was asked how important it was for him to be considered a great player, he dodged the question and instead focused on Torre's kind words. "He's my boss," Matsui said. "I trust him. I respect him. I'm glad he would compliment me that way."
Even though Matsui was billed as Japan's top slugger when the Yankees signed him, he has hit only eight homers. But Torre said Matsui did not behave like a hitter who needed to hit balls 430 feet to validate himself. So if a bushel of homers never comes, Torre believes Matsui will still be a strong run producer.
Torre also praised Matsui for never showing "any signs of cracking or panicking" while he was struggling for hits. Matsui was a little lost as he tried to figure out two-seam fastballs, but he was not totally adrift. Now he looks as comfortable as any Yankee, a player conquering a new world every day and doing it simply and softly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: DEREK JETER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



753 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Pursuing Happiness, Jefferson To J.Lo

BYLINE:  By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
THIS week, as Americans celebrate the 227th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, smokers in New York will huddle outside once smoky bars, prevented by a new law from lighting up inside, and lovers in Texas will go home disencumbered of the state's anti-sodomy law, which the Supreme Court overturned on Thursday. The smokers and lovers can trace their new status to Thomas Jefferson's manifesto, in particular the four-word phrase that rounded out his list of inalienable rights. As participants in what we have come to call the culture wars, they are the losers and winners of the pursuit of happiness.
 For more than two centuries, Jefferson's phrase has hovered over this fractious churning, drawing in as many combatants as there are notions of happiness. While most Americans can agree on definitions of life and liberty, the Declaration's first two inalienable rights, happiness is another matter. In a nation of immigrants and strivers, dropouts and resisters, sectarians and self-help gurus, Jefferson left behind an endlessly mutating set of fighting words. What he left vague, generations have vied to spell out, by force of law or just by force. 
 With all due respect to life and liberty, it is this third battleground -- characterized not as a fixed goal but a constant chase -- that both animates Americans' daily lives and ties them in knots. 
Among its other tangles, the pursuit underlies two enduring strains of American unhappiness: the culture wars and the ravenous consumer culture.
This contradiction is essential to the national identity. Happiness "doesn't have any legal meaning," said Richard A. Posner, a federal appeals court judge who has written about rights and society. "Happiness is not a word on which you can found a lawsuit." Yet it shapes American life in both broader and more paradoxical ways: the pursuit of happiness is the defining passion of a country whose signature voice is the blues.
This holiday, you can see this pursuit everywhere: in the booty-centric videos of MTV, the balloon-filled shopathons at appliance dealers, the expanses of the cultural landscape devoted to cooking or yoga. 
It is at the mall and in the dull machinations of local government, where last week a Manhattan woman, protesting restrictions on dancing in most city nightspots, offered her own spin on Jefferson: "I have a right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness," said Jen Miller, who belongs to a group called Dance Liberation Front. "And what is the pursuit of happiness if not dancing?" 
When Jennifer Lopez sings, "Don't be fooled by the rocks that I got, I'm still Jenny on the block," she means that she still shares her fans' pursuit of happiness, even if she has personal shoppers to score many of the essential accessories. 
To Jefferson and his contemporaries, the meaning of happiness was clear and relatively circumscribed, said Pauline Maier, professor of American history at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and author of "American Scripture: Making the Declaration of Independence." 
"I don't think it meant pleasure in our sense of carnal pleasures or material wealth," she said. "Happiness demanded a good government. That seems so crazy to us. But when they spoke of the ideal, they used biblical language: 'to be at peace under your vine and fig tree with none to make you afraid.' " 
For the founders, children of the Enlightenment, the pursuit of happiness replaced older imperatives like religious or filial duty, an upheaval to which Jefferson wisely did not call attention.
Yet happiness is not a fixed quantity, and pursuit by its nature keeps keeping on, as they say in the rap game. As definitions of happiness multiplied over time, the pursuit doubled back on itself. Though happiness seems a non-zero-sum game, meaning one person's joy should not prevent another from being happy, in practice the multiplicity of happiness has led to conflict. In a diverse society, the pursuit of happiness inevitably becomes a threat.
"At some level it's the beginning of the culture wars," said Roger Pilon, director of the center for constitutional studies at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group. "People understand the First Amendment protection of free speech, but we have a hard time going beyond that to understanding the protections to action generally, like the pursuit of happiness."
The culture wars -- which have escalated since the 1960's, when even Hubert H. Humphrey called for a "politics of happiness" -- arise from competing claims to happiness, the individual and the collective, said Stanley Fish, dean of the college of liberal arts and sciences at the University of Illinois at Chicago. 
"There's an abiding struggle," he said, "between those who embrace the libertarian ethic of complete freedom, pursuing whatever happiness you want as long as it doesn't harm anyone else, and others who say that what is required is a society that rewards virtue, that actively discourages unhealthy activity, in order to allow the most happiness for the most people."
In the case of the smokers in New York, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg held the public health of bar employees -- one measure of collective happiness -- above the desires of those seeking nicotine pleasures. Public happiness won out over individual happiness. Conversely, in the Texas case the Supreme Court recognized individuals' right to private happiness above any competing claim that sexual diversity diminished anyone else's happiness. In each case, the pursuit of happiness has left somebody unhappy.
As befits the agility of Jefferson's phrase, though, the lines of the culture wars can grow blurry. Most people pursue happiness from several camps at once, conquering in one as they are thwarted in another. The frustrated smokers in New York may be packing prescription doses of Viagra, paid for by Medicaid. The lovers in Texas may be happy that their children's schools ban certain clothing. The pursuit of happiness now can mean the pursuit of limits on happiness.
This logistic snarl, which turns the pursuit against itself, is only one piece of a broader legacy of disappointment, said Darrin M. McMahon, an associate professor of history at Florida State University who is writing a book on the history of happiness. "We're constantly being told that we've failed if we feel unhappy," Mr. McMahon said. "Happiness is not just a right but a duty. Now we're taught to believe if we're not happy all the time we need S.S.R.I.'s," he said, referring to the antidepressant drugs known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. By charging each American to pursue happiness, and making the pursuit a civic duty, Jefferson burdened his descendants with a condition Mr. McMahon called "the unhappiness of not being happy."
This condition reflects not the failed pursuit of happiness but the successes. Alexis de Tocqueville and Ralph Waldo Emerson, in the next century, saw that happiness was being pursued apace, if to unintended effect. "Our people are surrounded with greater external prosperity and general well-being than the Indians or Saxons," Emerson wrote, "yet we are sad but they are not."
The remedy, of course, is the pursuit of still more happiness, preferably through shopping. There is little cultural conflict in the pursuit of a washer/dryer or a nice set of clubs. 
This American acquisitiveness, which drives the economy, is an extension of Jefferson's ideal, said Jackson Lears, a history professor at Rutgers University and author of "Fables of Abundance: A Cultural History of Advertising in America." In claiming the pursuit of happiness as an inalienable right, Mr. Lears said, Jefferson mirrored the overarching logic of the free market: "each individual pursuing his own happiness will contribute to the general welfare."
Mr. Lears added that as market definitions of happiness began to grow with the economy in the 19th century, they brought their own doses of unhappiness. 
"The consumer culture," he said, "is about keeping us dissatisfied and unhappy, until we get the next thing. For Jefferson and his generation of thinkers, the whole notion of happiness was more sustainable, embedded in social and community responsibility."
Even this pursuit of happiness has never been for everyone. In an early draft of the Declaration, the slave-owning Jefferson excoriated King George III for violating "the sacred rights of life and liberty" of American slaves, but said nothing about their pursuit of happiness. And lately, there has been no talk of the role of happiness in the rebuilding of Iraq. After so much social conflict, perhaps Americans have learned their lesson.
But more likely they are responding to another Jeffersonian paradox: that the pursuit of happiness, an ideal to which any people might aspire, bundles the arrogance, entitlement and loose morality that so much of the world hates about America. The happiness wars, as the culture wars might be called, only get more intense when the rest of the world is asked to play too.
So here's to life, liberty and the pursuit of inhibited selective serotonin reuptake. To say nothing of prices so low they're practically giving it away.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Matt Collins) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); JUDGES (71%); LITIGATION (71%); PERSONAL SHOPPER SERVICES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



754 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
Bush Plays It Fast, With Hard Money

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28 

 BODY:
By early next March, Democrats will probably have settled on a nominee for president.
 At that point, with no opposition in the primaries, President Bush's re-election campaign is expected to begin spending the massive amount of money it is raising to paint an unfavorable picture of the Democratic candidate in voters' minds and to establish the terms of the fall contest in a way that benefits the president. 
 It is almost certain that the Democrats will not have the money to respond. "They will be flat on their backs," said Scott Reed, an experienced Republican consultant who is not involved in the 2004 presidential race, "tired from an exhausting primary campaign, still at each other's throats and completely broke." 
This is essentially the same strategy used by Ronald Reagan in 1984 and Bill Clinton in 1996 in their successful re-election campaigns, with one main difference. Mr. Reagan and Mr. Clinton did not have nearly as much money as Mr. Bush intends to raise and spend before the general election campaign officially begins in September 2004.
Mr. Reagan and Mr. Clinton accepted federal matching money in the primaries. Under the law, that limited Mr. Reagan to spending $24 million and Mr. Clinton to $37 million before they were officially nominated at their parties' conventions. The limit rises each year to account for inflation, and candidates who take matching money next year will be allowed to spend $44 million before the conventions.
But Mr. Bush is forgoing matching money, so there will be no limit to what he can spend. His campaign says it plans to raise $170 million, almost twice what Mr. Bush had in 2000 when he also refused matching money and faced stiff primary opposition, and many times more than any other candidate has ever spent.
In comparison, the amount is equivalent to everything spent for salaries and expenses at the White House during the 2002 fiscal year.
In a two-week coast-to-coast blitz that began June 17, the Bush campaign expects to raise more than $20 million. The president had fund-raisers in San Francisco and Los Angeles on Friday. Earlier, he had $2,000-a-plate events in Washington, in New York and at a resort near Atlanta. He intends to wrap up the swing on Monday with appearances in Miami and Tampa, Fla.
During the two-week period, Vice President Dick Cheney has been at fund-raising events in Boston and Richmond, Va., and he was scheduled to be in Grand Rapids, Mich., and Akron, Ohio, on Monday. Laura Bush has raised money in Cincinnati, Philadelphia and Chattanooga, Tenn.
Counting proceeds from direct-mail solicitations and a Web site, the campaign said it expected to have as much as $30 million on hand by the end of this month.
Because Mr. Bush plans to accept public financing for the general election campaign, he can use the money he is raising only between now and the Republican National Convention in New York in September 2004.
"It's a bonanza for them," said Tony Coelho, who for a time was Al Gore's campaign manager in the last presidential race. "There's no way they can spend this amount of money just for themselves."
Mr. Coelho said he expected the Bush campaign to contribute millions of excess dollars to Congressional campaign committees and state and local Republican parties to be used to improve the party's position in Congress. "What they want to do is not just target Bush's re-election but also make the Republican Party the majority party for the rest of the decade if not longer," he said.
Reached on Friday in Los Angeles, where he was traveling with the president, Ken Mehlman, the Bush campaign manager, said it was so early in the campaign that "no decisions have been made" about how to spend the money.
"The country is closely divided," Mr. Mehlman said. "This could be a close election. We will try to deliver the president's message."
He said that he expected a considerable amount of money to be spent on grass-roots organizing, registering voters and turning out the vote, but that he had not thought about using excess money to elect Republicans to Congress.
Whatever the case, political strategists in both parties and other experts on political campaigns said they expected most of the money now being raised to be used for television and radio commercials in swing states, and perhaps in New York and California, which are Democratic strongholds.
Many of the advertisements will emphasize the president's successes in office, said Bill Dal Col, a Republican consultant who ran Steve Forbes's campaign in the 2000 primaries. But many other advertisements will take on the prospective Democratic nominee and "try to soften him up," Mr. Dal Col said.
In 1996, after it was clear that Bob Dole would be the Republican nominee but before he had selected a running mate, the Clinton campaign ran a series of commercials linking Mr. Dole to Newt Gingrich, then the abrasive speaker of the House, implying that the Republican ticket would be Dole-Gingrich.
The Dole campaign was out of money, having spent what was allowed before the general election. But the Republican Party answered the challenge somewhat with soft money, the unrestricted donations from corporations, unions and wealthy individuals.
The Democratic nominee next year cannot count on soft money as a backup. The campaign finance law enacted last year banned soft money. If the law, commonly known as the McCain-Feingold law, is upheld by the Supreme Court this fall, the Democratic nominee in 2004 is not likely to have the means to respond to the commercials attacking him.
If the Democratic nominee has accepted matching funds to compete in the primaries, he will almost certainly have reached his spending limit by the end of March.
All of this may not matter in the general election. "Presidential elections tend to be driven by real-world events like the state of the economy or developments in foreign affairs," said Anthony Corrado, a political scientist at Colby College in Maine who specializes in elections.
"But if it's a really close race like the one in 2000, if every last vote counts, this could make the difference," Mr. Corrado said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush greeting supporters at a fund-raiser in Greensboro, Ga., on June 20. The president was in California on Friday and is near the end of a two-week blitz to raise money for his re-election campaign. (Agence France-Presse); (Air Force) Chart: "By Fall, It May Start To Add Up"Some typical costs of a presidential election campaign, based on interviews with political consultants, vendors and other campaign experts. An average full day of campaigning, including the cost of travel, renting halls, preparing stages and advance work: $100,000 One hour of travel on Air Force One: $40,000The amount of this that the campaign pays depends on how much of the trip is for official purposes and how many noncampaign workers are on the plane.) One week of television advertisements that the average voter could be expected to see five times: New York: $525,000Dallas: $210,000Minneapolis: $105,000Butte, Mont.: $10,000 A telephone bank with operators making two million calls: $600,000 Salary of experienced campaign manager in presidential race, per month: $12,000 to $15,000 Salary of advance man first year out of college, per month: $3,000(Not including generous expense account) Direct mail fund-raising appeal to 100,000 potential donors: $50,000 5,000 3-inch by 11 1/2-inch two-color bumper stickers: $588 5,000 11-inch by 14-inch two-color yard signs, folded with wire frame: $2,134 Each additional color: $335 2,500 round two-color buttons, 1 3/4-inch in diameter: $449 1 4-foot by 10-foot two color banner with grommets for hanging: $200

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (77%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (66%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (65%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (65%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (51%); AKRON, OH, USA (51%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (51%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



755 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: THE OCCUPATION; 
Once Hailed, Soldiers in Iraq Now Feel Blame at Each Step

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 28 

 BODY:
After riding into Iraq on a wave of popular euphoria, American and British forces are unexpectedly finding themselves the brunt of criticism for everything that goes wrong these days.
 "We are furious about people pointing guns at us," said Hamid Hussein, 33, pushing his broken-down Volkswagen bus to the front door of his house this morning. A United States Army Humvee was parked in the middle of his street, and a soldier in the turret ordered Mr. Hussein in English to stop where he was. 
 If the complaint is not about security, then it is about the lack of electricity this week in Baghdad. 
"Don't talk to me about Saddam Hussein," snapped Ibrahim Aullaiwi, a 46-year-old shop owner in the poor neighborhood of New Baghdad. "The Americans are in charge of everything here. They could have brought generators in here within 24 hours."
Like Mr. Aullaiwi, many residents of Baghdad seem to ignore the fact that the electricity disruption was caused at least in part by sabotage and looting. Seething in 110-degree heat without air-conditioners, fans or refrigerators, many residents were already furious about chronic power failures over the past two months.
Whether battling saboteurs or snipers, American and British occupation leaders find that the public mood has turned critical, even though countless Iraqis remain pleased that Saddam Hussein is gone and still place considerable hope in the Americans and British to improve things. 
The scorn, and the risk to the Western forces, can go together. That was the case when an angry crowd in the southern town of Majar al Kabir killed six British soldiers on Tuesday, and many residents contended that the British set off the disturbance by trying to search Muslim homes, a claim the British dispute.
American soldiers sometimes infuriate Iraqis by running afoul of time-honored tradition. On Thursday, soldiers on patrol in an Army convoy here heard gunshots and rushed into a house from all sides. It turned out there was a wedding party under way, a ceremony that often occurs on Thursday evenings and is celebrated with gunfire. The Americans added to the anger among the revelers by roughly grabbing and arresting a young man who was trying to sneak off in a taxi with his gun, according to a witness. 
Earlier this month when thousands of American troops raided what they believed were bases for loyalists to Saddam Hussein, provoking a lengthy firefight that killed four Iraqis, the Shiite newspaper Al Dawa described the deaths as "martyrdom."
The drumbeat of daily attacks on allied soldiers, meanwhile, is forcing military leaders to strike back with measures that often increase anger and fear. 
Soldiers in full-body armor, often without translators, show up at houses in the middle of the night and politely but firmly demand to search for weapons. Jittery soldiers in Humvees and tanks point machine guns at Iraqi cars that show the slightest hint of irregular behavior.
The tensions seem certain to increase. Attacks on American soldiers, though they do not endanger the overall military plan, have continued steadily for three weeks.
Today in Baquba, about 60 miles northeast of Baghdad, an unidentified person threw a grenade at American soldiers in a Humvee. The grenade missed the soldiers but wounded two Iraqis who happened to be shopping nearby.
The scene made for grisly images today on Al Jazeera, the Arabic television network based in Qatar: bloodied Iraqis at the sides of American soldiers.
Late Friday night, a grenade attack in the Baghdad district of Thawra left one American soldier dead, four soldiers wounded and one Iraqi interpreter wounded.
In yet another neighborhood of Baghdad that night, residents said someone fired a rocket-propelled grenade at an American armored personnel carrier. Military officials could not confirm the incident as of early this afternoon.
Those were merely the most recent deadly incidents in a week that included sniper attacks on individual soldiers, bombs placed under trucks and rocket-propelled grenades fired at Humvees.
American military commanders have greatly stepped up the pace of house-to-house sweeps, in which hundreds of soldiers temporarily close off neighborhoods and then search each house for weapons or any hints of loyalty to Saddam Hussein.
The searches usually proceed without serious conflicts, but the experiences are jarring for many people. On one recent raid, soldiers handcuffed and detained a man who had posters of Mr. Hussein in several of his rooms. The man went peacefully and was released after questioning.
British commanders, who have prided themselves on their ability to project a friendly image to Iraqis, learned this week just how explosive such searches can be.
Conservative Shiite Muslims in the southern town of Majar al Kabir had demanded that British soldiers refrain from house searches because they were disrespectful.
British commanders said they agreed to the demand, but troops set off a melee on Wednesday simply by showing up in the town. Mobs cornered and then killed several soldiers in a police station, and several more outside. Six soldiers died and eight more had been wounded by the time the dust settled.
Today, British forces returned to Majar al Kabir accompanied by at least five tanks as well as helicopters overhead. To ease tensions, the British have distributed leaflets begging residents to believe in the soldiers' peaceful intentions.
"Do not let rumors and misinformation split us apart," the leaflets say. "We will not return to punish you. That was the tactic of Saddam's regime."
One problem facing both British and American officials is their own limited ability to communicate through mass media. The American-led Coalition Provisional Authority inaugurated radio and television broadcasts last month, but the television broadcasts are only a few hours a night and are mostly devoted to reruns of Arab-language entertainment shows.
Meanwhile, Iraqis listen to television broadcasts from the Iranian network Al Alam, which is overwhelmingly critical of American forces in Iraq and the United States in general. Television sets here can receive Al Alam with the help of a large antenna. For the growing number of Iraqis with satellite dishes, the most influential source of news may be Al Jazeera. It has been critical of the allied forces and has assiduously and quickly reported attacks on American soldiers.
Meanwhile, Iraq has seen a flood of new newspapers. While some are balanced, and one or two are pro-American, many are plainly hostile.
An article on the front page of Al Haqiqa, one of several Shiite newspapers, reported that "unemployment and the chaos of security are the root causes of Iraqis clashing with Americans."
And in a separate front-page headline, the newspaper quoted a prominent Shiite leader as saying, "No Dialogue with the Occupier."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Iraqis unloaded blocks of ice last week from a truck in Baghdad as a disruption in electricity continued. (Lynsey Addario for The New York Times); As British troops returned to Majar al Kabir yesterday, residents of the Iraqi town were told to stay inside. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); FIREARMS (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003 



756 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Opera Not a Shoo-In at Ground Zero 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
For the last several months, the New York City Opera seemed to have the inside track on becoming the cultural anchor at the World Trade Center site. But today the corporation overseeing downtown redevelopment is planning to invite arts groups from all over the world to submit proposals, suggesting that a place for City Opera is not secured.
 The same goes for the Museum of Freedom, which had already received a commitment of support from American Express. 
 Today's expected invitation from the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation seems intended to send the message that decisions about a cultural element at ground zero will not be based on personal, political or professional connections. 
"We want to cast a broad net to see what's out there," said Kevin M. Rampe, the new president of the development corporation. "No decisions have been made."
Kate D. Levin, the New York City Cultural Affairs commissioner, said: "There is an appropriate inclination to make this a celebration of U.S. culture. At the same time, it is important to recognize that culturally the U.S. is part of a reciprocal universe."
Said Mr. Rampe, "We're doing outreach to cultural organizations in the city, nationally and internationally to ensure we get the broadest possible scope of interest." 
John C. Whitehead, chairman of the development corporation, is an opera fan enthusiastic about having City Opera at ground zero. In March Mr. Whitehead said that while there had been no final decision about the opera company, "I would say it looks favorable." 
Irwin Schneiderman, the City Opera chairman, was out of the country last week and could not be reached for comment. But in a recent interview he said that if a major cultural center was to be built at ground zero, "they need an anchor like us."
Tom A. Bernstein, who proposed the concept of a Museum of Freedom, is president of the Chelsea Piers recreation complex. Roland W. Betts, founder of Chelsea Piers, is also a director of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation.
Mr. Bernstein said that he was comfortable with the prospect of competition. "It's all part of an open process," he said, "and we plan to respond with other interested parties."
The overall plan for the World Trade Center site designed by the architect Daniel Libeskind provides for a performing arts center and a museum. More than 400,000 square feet are dedicated to cultural uses on the site plan, and Mr. Rampe said the development corporation wanted to create a feeling of round-the-clock activity. 
In its invitation the corporation is asking cultural groups to submit detailed suggestions for programming and information about their mission, community outreach and educational programs. It is also requesting financial information about construction budgets, experience with capital campaigns and potential contributions to economic development on the site. 
Mr. Rampe would not specify the financial contribution that the corporation expected to make toward a cultural component except to say that it would be significant. People close to the process estimated that amount at $200 million to $300 million. But the invitation warns groups not to assume any financial help from the corporation, and it asks organizations to show they can sustain themselves.
"We want to make sure these institutions can be vibrant on an ongoing basis," Mr. Rampe said. 
In considering proposals the corporation will look at small and large organizations, Mr. Rampe said. The Joyce Theater, for example, has expressed interest in being part of a performing arts complex, adding the downtown site to its stages in Chelsea and SoHo. The development corporation is also interested in groups that want to provide programming without relocating to the site. 
Submissions will be evaluated jointly by the corporation, the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs and the New York State Council on the Arts. Mr. Rampe said that he planned to narrow the field by September, partly because the development corporation would be refining the master site plan in October.
"There may well be ideas that haven't been heard," Ms. Levin said. "We are doing this to make sure any organization that might be interested has the opportunity to try and make their case."
A museum is almost certain to be one element of cultural development at ground zero, Mr. Rampe said. But the content and management of such an institution has not been determined. Mr. Bernstein's Museum of Freedom would include an exhibition devoted to the Sept. 11 attacks and others that address freedom in general. The Museum of the City of New York and the New-York Historical Society are also interested in being part of a new museum at the site.
The performing arts center appears to be up for grabs. City Opera has clearly stated its desire to leave Lincoln Center for ground zero because its home there, at the New York State Theater, was designed for dance and muffles sound. City Opera has not established how it could afford such a relocation alone, given that it shares upkeep of the State Theater with the New York City Ballet and has a deficit of about $3.5 million. The philanthropist Robert W. Wilson had offered $50 million toward a new building for City Opera, but he has said he would not support a move downtown.
In addition a poll of 800 downtown residents taken in May indicated that they did not think City Opera should be a priority of cultural development in the area. The poll found that respondents preferred the idea of a multipurpose cultural complex that could also serve as a community and recreation center similar to the 92nd Street Y or a multiuse performing arts center for music, dance and theater like the Brooklyn Academy of Music. (The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percent.) 
An opera house is "not what the community chooses," said Madelyn Wils, chairwoman of Community Board 1 in Lower Manhattan and a director of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. "I think what this shows isthat City Opera is not going to serve local residents." 
Considerable questions also remain as to whether City Opera's audience would follow that company downtown, although the opera hoped to draw new audiences from Brooklyn and New Jersey. 
Mr. Rampe said that an audience for some kind of cultural component seemed assured. "We're planning for 10 million visitors a year to the memorial," he said, referring to another component of the redeveloped site. "That makes it easy to bring audiences down for cultural events." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); OPERA (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); BUDGETS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



757 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Patents; 
Insurance protection for terrorism, divorces, frivolous lawsuits and excessive gambling losses.

BYLINE:  By Sabra Chartrand

 BODY:
PATENTS for methods of carrying out an idea have long generated controversy because they award exclusive ownership to a way of doing things, not a mechanical, electrical or chemical innovation. Patents have been granted for methods of doing surgery, business, scientific experiments, even cutting hair and brushing teeth. 
 In 1998, after hearing a legal challenge to a patent for a way of pooling mutual fund assets, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ruled that methods of doing business could be patented. Since that ruling, known as the State Street Bank decision, applications for business-method patents have begun transforming the way products are created and marketed. 
 Those changes are starkly apparent in insurance. In the past, if an insurer came out with a creative new kind of policy, other companies could simply copy it, explained Mark Nowotarski, a patent agent in Stamford, Conn., who specializes in business-method patents.
"There are a lot of very experienced people in the insurance industry, like actuaries and underwriters and so forth, who for years had new ideas and nothing to do with them," he said. Now many of those same people are forming start-ups that Mr. Nowotarski calls "insurance development labs."
"We're seeing new entrepreneurs arise, and they are by far getting the majority of the patents," he said. Most then license their inventions to large insurers.
Their ideas include coverage for just about anything that carries risk. Recent applications -- published by the Patent and Trademark Office -- and newly issued patents include those for terrorism insurance, divorce insurance, insurance against frivolous lawsuits, coverage for gambling losses or foreign exchange losses, and insured lottery tickets.
Two Virginia inventors, Anthony Beverina of Falls Church and Bryan Ware of Fairfax, have two applications pending, Nos. 20010027388 and 7389, for a method of computerized risk management that "allows users to evaluate the risk of a terrorist attack at their site, determine their vulnerability to a terrorist attack, assess the damage caused by a successful terrorist attack, and select countermeasures to prevent terrorist attacks."
"One of the applications of this method is determining insurance risk," Mr. Nowotarski said.
Another inventor, Lawrence M. Sherman of Westport, Conn., has filed patent application No. 20030120521 for a method of shared life insurance, which would pay beneficiaries in the event of the death of two or more insured parties.
The parties could be connected by family or business relationships, and that might include people working in a place hit by a terrorist attack.
In Dallas, John R. Lee has filed patent application No. 20030074233 for a method of donating life insurance benefits to nonprofit groups. A charity could buy life insurance for willing donors, make the premium payments, then collect when donors die.
Johan Renes, of Soest, the Netherlands, and his partner, Allen C. Turner, of Salt Lake City, have filed application No. 20030074231 for an idea they call "insurance for cessation of legal personal contract." Their application calls it a "method of doing business in divorce insurance policies," which includes figuring out a premium based on the spouse's ages and projected earnings.
The inventors say the premium can be recalculated to take into account factors like inflation, further education, children, or disability.
Engaged couples might be reluctant to buy such a policy, but the inventors say it could be taken out on their behalf by other interested parties -- perhaps wary future in-laws.
To collect, the parties would have to provide proof of a legal divorce and demonstrate that they have physically separated. Benefits could cover "child support, alimony, children's or former partner's education, other maintenance of a former partner or spouse (e.g., health and life insurance premiums), etc.," the application said. 
"Although the concept may sound cynical, the advantages of such a system are many fold to both the insured parties and to society in general," the inventors said. "For society, by taking the responsibility for payment away from the parties there should be an increased certainty that child support payments will actually be made, thus decreasing the burden on taxpayers. For the individuals involved, there is no need to beggar one or both spouses unnecessarily which should hopefully decrease the bitterness."
Jay S. Walker, a prolific inventor who founded Walker Digital in Stamford, Conn., and James A. Jorasch of Stamford have won a patent for a method of insuring against gambling losses. Under patent No. 6,561,903, gamblers would be able to buy the policies with cash or credit cards from computerized terminals in casinos. 
Many gamblers are prepared to lose an initial stake. The insurance is designed to limit a gambler's excessive losses, the inventors say.
"Once a player starts gambling, it is sometimes hard for the player to keep accurate track of the amount of gambling losses, and even players that can do so sometimes find it hard to control the urge to continue playing," they write in their patent.
The same two inventors also won patent No. 6,128,598 for protecting against foreign exchange losses. The method calculates type of currency, exchange rate, amount of coverage and period of coverage to determine a premium, and then would protect investors and even tourists against swings in the value of the dollar. 
In Terre Haute, Ind., Jeffrey J. Segal has won patent No. 6,272,471 for a method of "deterring frivolous professional liability claims." He calls it countersuit insurance and said it would pay the legal costs of professionals who had to defend themselves from frivolous suits. 
"As part of the insurance plan, the names of covered professionals are posted on a publicly accessible database," he said, to warn anyone considering filing a weak or frivolous claim. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (92%); INSURANCE (90%); CHEMICALS PATENTS (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); TERRORISM (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (88%); PATENT LAW (79%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); TRENDS (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (74%); DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS (70%); MARITIME PIRACY (69%); TRADEMARK LAW (64%); APPEALS COURTS (56%); LOTTERIES (50%) INSURANCE; PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, COPYRIGHTS AND PIRACY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: STATE STREET BANK & TRUST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FEDERAL CIRCUIT (57%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



758 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
To secure the nation's computer networks, the government will rely on ideas from companies.

BYLINE:  By Steve Lohr

 BODY:
ROBERT LISCOUSKI left his job as the head of information security at Coca-Cola three months ago to join a start-up. "I refer to it as DHS.com, and that's probably a good way to think about it," he said.
 The pace of work is frenetic, the organization is being built from the ground up, and, like a dot-com in the euphoria years, the new Department of Homeland Security -- the DHS in Mr. Liscouski's locution -- will have some serious money to spend. 
 Mr. Liscouski, an assistant secretary at the department, who spoke at a conference last Wednesday, hit a nerve with his analogy. The computer executives at the gathering in Washington were suitably amused, nodding and smiling -- wistfully no doubt. Nothing, of course, will bring back the dot-com heyday. But to much of Silicon Valley, the government's mandate to improve homeland security looks as if it could be the next-best thing -- a technology push, stimulated by government, that is expected to create a lucrative market in computer hardware and software for surveillance, data collection, data analysis and cybersecurity.
The government is shopping for high-technology tools capable of finding terrorists and defending against cyberattacks on the computer networks that run the nation's financial, transportation and communications systems. 
Dependence on the private sector was the mantra of the Bush administration officials who spoke at the conference, "Information Technology Leadership in a Security-Focused World." The gathering was sponsored by the Information Technology Industry Council, a trade organization, and the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a research group.
As Paul Kurtz, the special assistant to the president on the White House Homeland Security Council, said at the conference, "We will take the best and brightest ideas in the private sector and apply them to homeland security."
That stance is probably less a political philosophy than a pragmatic recognition of the technical realities of homeland security. About 85 percent of the computers and networks connected to the Internet, for example, are owned and operated by companies. 
"The systems are designed and owned by the private sector," said Adam Golodner, an associate director at the Institute for Security Technology Studies at Dartmouth College. "That's a very different world from traditional defense, where if the Pentagon wants a new strike-force bomber it is totally built to the government's specifications."
Yet relying so much on the industry for both equipment and ideas raises a policy issue. As the government and private sector adopt a dot-com enthusiasm for the "best and brightest" security technologies, will both sides lose perspective on what is truly in the public interest? 
There is a tension, for example, between the interests of homeland security and personal privacy. Security and personal privacy are not necessarily at odds; an individual's financial transactions over the computer networks of modern banking systems, for instance, cannot be private unless they are secure.
Still, the drive toward homeland security seems fraught with privacy peril. One broad approach being explored for improving security involves collecting vast sets of personal information in computer databases, then sorting and analyzing the data to look for suspicious activities and possible terrorists.
The optimistic view is that technology can sidestep any trade-off between homeland security and personal privacy. "Information technology will be a force for more security and more privacy, a force for greater security and greater individual freedom," Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, said in a luncheon speech at the conference.
Not everyone in attendance was convinced. "What he said is fine for rhetoric, but I'm not sure it's true," said Lance J. Hoffman, a computer scientist and security expert at George Washington University.
One concern, Mr. Hoffman said, is that the national effort to improve homeland security will mean that all the investment and research goes into computer security, while the privacy implications are given short shrift. To prevent that, he advocates public investment on both sides of the security-privacy ledger.
As a possible model, Mr. Hoffman points to the National Human Genome Research project. The government sets aside part of the project's annual budget, 3 percent to 5 percent, for a research program into the ethical, legal and social implications of genetic research.
"In the short-term drive to improve security, we want to make sure that whatever we do is consistent with a long-term balancing point of preserving civil rights," Mr. Hoffman said. "You want those kinds of decisions to have been considered and thought through."
Speaking at the conference, John J. Hamre, the president of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, made a somewhat different argument for trying to strike a balance in homeland security policy. A former deputy secretary of defense, Mr. Hamre said that there was no complete answer to all security threats, so there were limits to what technology could be expected to do.
At the conference, industry executives spoke highly of the raft of technologies that can and are being deployed in the quest for homeland security -- data-sifting software, artificial intelligence, probability theory, iris recognition and digital-video surveillance gear. And most people emphasized the need for clever software to integrate the computer networks of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies, so they can share information more easily.
That is all potentially useful, Mr. Hamre said, but he added that the effort to gather and sift through oceans of data might be misguided. The appropriate metaphor for domestic surveillance, he said, was the old one of looking for a needle in a haystack. By piling up the data, "we're adding more hay to the stack," Mr. Hamre said.
Before trying to integrate the thousands of federal, state and local computer systems, Mr. Hamre said, it might be wise to spell out clearer rules for sharing information on the roughly 40,000 people on terrorist "watch lists" among the federal agencies that keep those lists.
"The problem is terrorists," Mr. Hamre said, "not lack of information."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); CYBERTERRORISM (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%) CRIME; TERRORISM; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (91%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



759 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Strike Hobbles Rail Service After Arrests in South Korea 

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, June 29 

 BODY:
A strike by railroad workers shut down more than half the country's rail service today, including most of the freight trains, after the police detained 1,500 strikers in a raid on a university campus on Saturday.
 The finance minister, Kim Jin Pyo, denounced the strike as "unjustifiable and clearly illegal" and promised punishment for strike leaders. There was, he said, "no room for dialogue or compromise." The government decided to crack down on the strike in view of economic problems that have forced repeated downward revisions in estimates for growth. The latest official forecasts show the economy is likely to grow 3 percent to 3.5 percent this year, compared with 6.3 percent last year, while manufacturing output and foreign direct investment have both declined since last year. 
 Maurice Greenberg, the chief executive of the American International Group, called on Friday for "laws that prevent labor unions from being so militant that it destroys or disrupts a company." Mr. Greenberg, who was visiting here in his role as chairman of the United States-Korea Business Council, said "many companies in the United States have complained that the labor issue is very devastating to business in Korea."
Although the government planned to put 200 soldiers to work on the railroads, the absence of more than 80 percent of nearly 5,000 locomotive engineers forced the cancellation of nearly 90 percent of the country's freight service, according to a Korean National Railroad spokesman. The railroad was able to maintain about 60 percent of its passenger service, the spokesman said.
The strike began early Saturday when several thousand workers sought refuge on the campus of Yonsei University, which has often been associated with anti-government activity. Helmeted police officers, swinging clubs and flailing their shields at demonstrators, herded 1,500 workers there and at rallies elsewhere into police buses while the strike leaders escaped.
The Korean Confederation of Trade Unions planned demonstrations here and in other cities on Monday while another labor organization, the Federation of Korean Trade Unions, said it would call a "general strike" of workers, including white-collar employees of banks and securities firms.
Strike leaders, rallying outside the National Assembly building, called today for higher pay and benefits as well as shorter hours for railroad workers and demanded that the government give up its plan to privatize the rail system. Workers fear private owners will lay off some of the system's 21,000 workers and be less willing to pay overtime and to improve conditions than the government corporation that now runs the system.
Government officials planned to request warrants for the arrests of strike leaders, including Dan Byeong Ho, president of the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions, who was jailed for his role in violent action staged by Daewoo Motor workers more than two years ago before Daewoo's take over by General Motors.
The strike posed a political problem for President Roh Moo Hyun, a former human rights lawyer who defended workers during often violent strikes in the 1980's. Before the raid on the Yonsei campus, Mr. Roh warned that workers could lose some of their "privileges," including payment while on strike, and said he would oppose attempts by labor leaders "to tame the authorities." The walkout by railroad workers was one of several strikes expected over the next few weeks, a period of negotiations between labor and management for annual pay increases.
Labor strife began with a strike by several thousand workers at Chohung Bank protesting the sale of the government's 80 percent stake to the Shinhan Financial Group. The Federation of Korean Trade Unions today reiterated its demand for cancellation of the sale even though the agreement promises job security and says Chohung will stay in business as a separate Shinhan subsidiary for three years.
The Federation of Korean Industries, made up of leaders of the country's biggest conglomerates, has accused the government of having been too eager to make concessions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STRIKES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); OVERTIME (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%) RAILROADS; SOUTH KOREA; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



760 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: ARTS BRIEFING 

BYLINE:  By Lawrence Van Gelder 

 BODY:
 HIGHLIGHTS

TELEVISION HIRING PRACTICES -- For the third consecutive year white men directed more than 80 percent of 860 episodes of the Top 40 prime-time drama and comedy series, according to a report by the Directors Guild of America on the employment of female and minority directors by television networks. The report says that in the 2002-3 season, 13 of the top 40 shows hired no minority directors, 10 hired no female directors, and 3 hired neither female nor minority directors. "The report reveals that once again the producers and the networks have failed to fulfill their contractual good-faith obligation to hire more women and minority directors," said Martha Coolidge, the president of the guild. Except for the use of black directors, which increased to 5 percent of the episodes from 3 percent in 2000-1, the report said, the statistics are virtually unchanged from the previous two years.

ART: WEST FROM CHICAGO -- The 115 paintings, sculptures, decorative artworks and prints that went on view over the weekend at the Art Institute of Chicago flow from the geography that made Chicago a doorway to the frontier, from technology in the form of the railroad, from the wealth that technology created, from arts patronage made possible by that wealth and from scholarship that announced the closing of the frontier and the decline of American Indian population. The exhibition, to be seen only in Chicago, is called "Window on the West: Chicago and the Art of the New Frontier, 1890-1940." Running through Oct. 13, it focuses on the city's role in creating the image of the West and includes sculptures by artists like Cyrus Dallin and Frederic Remington, as well as paintings by Remington, Marsden Hartley and Georgia O'Keeffe.

ART: WEST FROM ALBANY -- Mass transit, industrial revolution, westward expansion, great fortunes and the romance of railroading give substance to the new exhibition at the Albany Institute of History and Art in Albany. The show consists of three sections telling how railroads like the Mohawk & Hudson (chartered April 17, 1826) and the New York Central, left, made their mark on the life and the economy not only around New York's capital but also across the United States. "Picture It!," which runs through Sept. 28, consists of photographs that document engines, trains and people in 19th- and 20th-century regional railroading. "The Art of Train Travel," through Sept. 28, offers the paintings, posters and other art created by railroads to induce Americans to travel by train. And "Engines of Change: Capital Area Railroads and America," through Nov. 2, arrays paintings, photographs, ephemera and other objects to survey important people and subjects.

POETRY: WORDS AND PICTURES -- The Poetry Society of America and the International Center of Photography in Manhattan are teaming up for a night of poetry to go along with the pictures in the center's current Lewis Carroll exhibition. At 6:30 tonight at the center, the actors Maria Tucci and Mark Linn-Baker will read from Carroll's "Hunting of the Snark" and selections from his stories about Alice in Wonderland.

OPERAS IN THE PARK -- "La Boheme" is dead. Long live "La Boheme." That may be the appropriate response to the latest news about this perennially popular opera. Over the weekend Baz Luhrmann's production closed at the Broadway Theater. But thanks to Vincent La Selva, right, and the New York Grand Opera, celebrating their 30th season of free opera in Central Park, not one but two new "Bohemes" lie just ahead. At 7:30 p.m. tomorrow, on the East Meadow off Fifth Avenue at 97th Street, Mr. La Selva will present the familiar Puccini "La Boheme," which first opened in 1896. On July 30 at 7:30 p.m. the attraction will be Leoncavallo's version, which had its premiere in 1897, after Puccini rejected his offer to collaborate. New York Grand Opera's concluding production of the season, at 7:30 on Aug. 13, will be Puccini's "Madama Butterfly."

CONCERTS IN THE PARKS -- The 39th season of free New York Philharmonic summertime concerts opens on Sunday at the Snug Harbor Cultural Center on Staten Island with works by Mozart, Ibert and Falla. When the series moves next Monday to the Great Lawn of Central Park, on July 8 to Prospect Park in Brooklyn and on July 9 to Cunningham Park in Queens, Roberto Minczuk, the orchestra's associate conductor, will lead a program of Borodin, Tchaikovsky and Mussorgsky-Ravel. Subsequent concerts in this New York Philharmonic AOL Time Warner series are scheduled for the Great Lawn on July 10; Heckscher State Park in East Islip, N.Y., on July 12; and finally (and for the first time) at Orchard Beach, the Bronx, on July 13. All the concerts begin at 8 p.m. except for the Orchard Beach performance, by the Philharmonic Brass, which begins at 7. Fireworks will accompany the concerts in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens and East Islip.

FOOTNOTES

Rue McClanahan has bowed out of Richard Alfieri's new comedy, "Six Dance Lessons in Six Weeks," co-starring Mark Hamill, so its planned late September opening has been postponed to an indefinite date, spokesmen for the show have announced. . . . Richard Foreman, above, founder of the avant-garde Ontological-Hysteric Theater, has been made a member of France's Order of Arts and Letters. The order recognizes "eminent artists and writers, and people who have contributed significantly to furthering the arts in France and throughout the world."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Arts Briefing column yesterday about the New York Grand Opera's 30th season of free performances in Central Park misstated the day for Puccini's "Boheme." It is at 7:30 tomorrow night, not tonight.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gustave Baumann's "Pinon, Grand Canyon," above, and Thomas Moran's "Summit of the Sierras," from the new exhibition "Window on the West." (Report, left.) (Art Institute of Chicago) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (88%); SCULPTURE (88%); TRAINS (87%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (75%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); LITERATURE (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (66%); WRITERS (61%) TELEVISION; LABOR; WOMEN; MINORITIES (US); ART; RAILROADS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PHOTOGRAPHY; OPERA; MUSIC; THEATER; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; DISCRIMINATION; POETRY AND POETS 

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (91%); DIRECTORS GUILD OF AMERICA (84%); INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (59%) DIRECTORS GUILD OF AMERICA; ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO; INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (NYC); NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC; ONTOLOGICAL-HYSTERIC THEATER; INSTITUTE OF HISTORY AND ART (ALBANY, NY) 

PERSON: THOMAS J MORAN (53%) ;DODGSON, CHARLES LUTWIDGE (LEWIS CARROLL) (1832-98); PUCCINI, GIACOMO (1858-1924); LEONCAVALLO, RUGGIERO (1858-1919); ALFIERI, RICHARD; FOREMAN, RICHARD; VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE; MCCLANAHAN, RUE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) ALBANY (NY)

TITLE: ;LA BOHEME (OPERA); SIX DANCE LESSONS IN SIX WEEKS (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



761 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Intriguing Works Rise in London Sales; 
Auction Houses Find Connections Between Provenance and Price

BYLINE:  By CAROL VOGEL

DATELINE: LONDON, June 29 

 BODY:
In the auction world, all it takes is two stubborn collectors with deep pockets to create a buzz. So it was in a packed salesroom at Sotheby's here on June 23, during the semiannual series of major auctions, that a pair of telephone bidders fought over a painting by Egon Schiele. The work, "Krumau Landscape: Town and River" (1916), set a record price for that artist's work, selling for $21 million, almost twice its high estimate of $10.8 million.
 Not only was the painting considered rare by experts, but it also came with a compelling history. It originally belonged to Wilhelm and Daisy Hellmann, who were among the first families of Viennese art patronage in the early 20th century. The Hellmanns acquired the Expressionist painting directly from Schiele, who was a friend. In 1938 it was seized by the Nazis and auctioned in 1942 to Wolfgang Gurlitt, a German dealer who later sold it to the Neue Galerie in Linz, Austria. It hung there from 1953 until earlier this year, when it was returned to heirs of the Hellmanns, living in Britain, who gave it to Sotheby's to sell. 
 A canvas of bright orange, red and brown rooftops painted from a high vantage, with a river winding through one side of it, the painting is considered especially important by experts who think it is one of Schiele's most powerful late works. It is also particularly desirable given the fashion for German and Austrian Expressionist art. 
The $21 million paid for this Schiele was the highest price ever paid for a restituted artwork sold at auction, and the most expensive painting of the week's sales. The buyer has not been disclosed. All the usual names have been bandied about, from Ronald S. Lauder, chairman of the Museum of Modern Art and founder of the Neue Galerie in New York, a museum of German and Austrian art, to Rudolph Leopold, a passionate Viennese collector, and Lily Safra, widow of the billionaire banker Edmond J. Safra. Another possibility, experts said, is David Thomson, the son of Lord Thomson of Fleet, former owner of The Times of London and one of the richest men in Canada. The family's collection has been promised to the Art Gallery of Ontario. 
The rarity of "Krumau Landscape" coupled with the allure of its provenance made it one of the bright spots in a week of rather predictable ups and downs. While the top international dealers gathered here, the well-trodden path from Sotheby's salesrooms on New Bond Street to Christie's headquarters on nearby King Street was noticeably lacking in Americans. For the last two seasons they have been conspicuously absent, choosing to stay home and bid either through their dealers or on the telephone, or perhaps not at all.
In trying to analyze the week's results, Thomas Gibson, a leading London dealer, said: "Everyone likes to create a mystery about the art market, but there are no mysteries. If something was an exceptional work by a popular artist, it did well."
Besides exceptional works, those works with unusual or compelling provenances outperformed the run-of-the-mill, irrespective of whether they were important.
Van Goghs, no matter what their quality or subject matter, attract collectors. At Christie's two van Gogh paintings and a drawing became top sellers, and all were bought by unidentified telephone bidders. The most expensive, "Still Life, Vase With Carnations" (1890), sold for $7.1 million, above its $4.9 million low estimate. Three bidders went for "The Reader of Novels," an 1888 painting of a dark-haired girl with her head in a book, which brought $5.6 million, also above its $4.9 million low estimate.
(Prices include the auction houses' commissions. At Sotheby's it is 20 percent on the first $100,000 and 12 percent of the rest; Christie's charges 19.5 percent of the first $100,000 and 12 percent above that. Estimates do not reflect commissions.) 
More interesting than either painting, however, was a van Gogh drawing. That sketch of his famous yellow house was made on the back of a letter he wrote to his brother, Theo, on Sept. 28, 1888, in which he described a painting he was about to work on. That painting was "The Yellow House," which now hangs in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, and Christie's was selling the sketch for it, known as "Vincent's House at Arles." The sketch sold for $1.4 million, midway between its $1.2 million and $1.6 million estimates. Christie's identified the buyer only as an American collector. 
Throughout the week works on paper brought high prices. Christie's sold two collections of drawings, gouaches and watercolors. Both had low estimates, a smart tactic by Christie's because it contributed to a feeding frenzy. One collection included 30 works that belonged to Efstratios Eleftheriades, better known as Teriade, the publisher of 20th-century art books who died in 1983. They were being sold by his widow, Alice Teriade, to benefit a French hospital foundation. 
Among the top work in that sale was Miro's "Rooster," a bright work on paper that was bought by the Nahmad family, dealers with galleries in New York and London. The Miro work sold for nearly $3 million, more than five times its high $560,000 estimate. 
Also for sale at Christie's was a group of Cezanne drawings that had belonged to Adrien Chappuis, author of the catalogue raisonne of Paul Cezanne's drawings. The collection remained in the Chappuis family until 1999, when it was bequeathed to the family of Georges and Jean Barut, friends of Chappuis. Top among the group was a self-portrait of Cezanne with a disheveled collar and a straight-on stare; it sold to an unidentified collector for $737,339, nearly six times its $130,000 high estimate. 
In the Impressionist and Modern art sales and in the contemporary art auctions, when a mediocre painting came up, bidding frequently evaporated, and the room went dead. Banal examples of Klee or Renoir, Warhol or Fontana went unsold. 
There was little doubt as to which artists were in fashion. European buyers had a healthy appetite for Surrealist works by artists like Magritte and Delvaux. 
At Sotheby's contemporary art sale, a striking Fontana, "Spatial Concept, the End of God" (1964), a large bright-yellow egg-shaped canvas punctuated by Fontana's familiar holes, was bought by Anthony Meier, the San Francisco dealer, for $2.2 million, well above its $1.3 million high estimate. Five bidders tried to buy that work, and after the sale experts speculated that Mr. Meier was bidding for the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, which he has bid for many times. 
Also popular at Christie's were three paintings by the Russian-born painter Nicolas de Stael, who died in 1955. "It is interesting to note that if any artist has been in the shadows for years and has a major retrospective, people reassess that artist's place in history," Mr. Gibson said, referring to the current retrospective of de Stael's work at the Georges Pompidou Center in Paris. 
Prices for work by Gerhard Richter, strong since his major retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art in New York last year, have grown even stronger. Four of his paintings from various periods were among the Top 20 best sellers of the week. At Christie's, three bidders went after "Forest (3)" (1990), one of Mr. Richter's bright-blue, blurry abstract images. Rachel Mauro, who runs the Dickinson Roundell gallery in New York, bought it for $1.3 million, in the middle of its $1.2 million to $1.6 million estimates.
At Sotheby's two telephone bidders tried for "Small Canary Landscape" (1971), one of Mr. Richter's dreamy, photo-based images. It sold to an unidentified collector for $512,650, above its $471,000 high estimate. 
Many in the art world noticed the growing difference between the market for Impressionist and Modern art and that of contemporary art. After Christie's sale of contemporary art on Thursday night, Armand Bartos, a Manhattan dealer, said he could feel the market for contemporary art getting stronger and stronger. 
"Over the next three to five years the offerings and audience for contemporary art will increase," he said, "whereas unless someone dies less will come up for sale in the area of Impressionist and Modern art, so there will be less buyers. Just look at the inflation of younger artists." 
Tobias Meyer, director of Sotheby's contemporary art department worldwide, said he noticed that this season in particular the audience at the Impressionist and Modern art sales and the auctions for contemporary art were markedly different. 
"New buyers, people who have made money in global financial markets, are no longer going into the Impressionist and Modern field as they did in the past," he said. "These people are interested in postwar art. As a result there's a different energy in the salesrooms. There is more supply and more fashions."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An American bought "Vincent's House at Arles," a study by van Gogh for his painting "The Yellow House." (Christie's); Egon Schiele's "Krumau Landscape," sold to an undisclosed bidder at Sotheby's in London, had been seized by the Nazis in 1938. (Associated Press)(pg. E5); Egon Schiele's 1916 painting "Krumau Landscape" fetched $21 million at auction in London, setting a record for that artist's work. (Sotheby's)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (87%) ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); LINZ, AUSTRIA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%); AUSTRIA (87%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



762 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: EBay Faithful Unshaken Despite Ever Slimmer Profits 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., June 28 

 BODY:
As the recession has slowed industrial activity, Lloyd Graff has found one way to revive sales at his machine tools dealership: auctions on eBay. He has been able to find buyers for everything from $100 accessories to $55,000 precision rotary tools. It is great, he said, to reach many more customers. The only problem is the customers are far more informed about prices.
 "EBay makes for a more efficient marketplace, and that leads to very compressed margins," Mr. Graff said. "We just hope for a higher velocity of sales." 
 As Mr. Graff and 10,000 other current and prospective eBay members packed themselves into a convention center here this week, much of the talk was of booming business at ever slimmer margins. Yet, the falling prices hardly kept spirits from soaring in an event, called eBay Live, that drew people from all 50 states and 20 countries. It combined aspects of a country fair, a family reunion and an insurance company sales meeting. Despite eBay's enormous growth -- it sold $15 billion worth of goods last year -- its dominance by mom-and-pop sellers has been unchanged.
As strangers met waiting to spin a wheel to win a T-shirt or grab a slice of pizza at a reception, the standard greeting was "are you a seller or a buyer." Most were sellers, and many in fact make their living from eBay. Some, like William Lynam, who was laid off from a job on Wall Street, came to figure out whether eBay would make a good next career.
The more experienced sellers came looking for tips, to shop for software and other tools that could streamline their operations, and to buttonhole eBay officials with complaints about policies or features on the Web site.
Falling prices were evident in many markets. For the last several years, prices have been falling for what eBay calls collectibles -- antiques, souvenirs and other one-of-a-kind knickknacks.
A study by AuctionBytes, an online newsletter, found that the average selling price of collectibles has fallen by 38 percent since 2000, but the decline was only 3 percent in the last year. But making matters worse for sellers of collectibles, only 45 percent of items put up for auction were sold this year, down from 55 percent last year and 72 percent in 2000.
Practical goods -- like clothing, electronics and music -- now represent more than half the sales, and their prices have dropped as well.
"As collectibles prices started to fall, people asked me what I was going to do about it," Meg Whitman, eBay's chief executive, said in an interview. "I said, 'Nothing.' This is a dynamic and open marketplace, and prices are going to fluctuate."
She said that falling prices in certain categories were not detrimental to the health of eBay, which is actually growing faster this year than last year, because its sellers continue to adapt to the market.
Indeed, many attendees said one of their goals was to find out what the hot merchandise categories were and where they could find the goods to sell.
The amount of merchandise offered in large lots has increased more than 800 percent in the last year. Motorola, for example, holds monthly auctions on eBay for refurbished cellphones and other surplus items. Some of these are bought by retail stores. But many are bought by eBay members who resell them one at a time on the site.
There were success stories. In nine months, Dakmart, of Hallandale, Fla., has 10 employees and is auctioning off $200,000 a month of electronics and other goods.
"EBay is the best way to go from nothing to $1 million ever invented," said Dan A. Kaleky, its chief executive. Dakmart is thriving because Mr. Kaleky and his associates have relationships that let them buy goods directly from manufacturers at prices that are lower than many other sellers pay.
Big companies were visible at eBay Live, but not plentiful. Chuck Cebuhar, a vice president of Sears, Roebuck & Company, said Sears was expanding its activity on eBay to start selling reconditioned and overstocked appliances.
But such big players remain a tiny piece of eBay. Ms. Whitman said that 97 percent of the sales on the site were by small businesses.
In a rare public appearance, Pierre Omidyar, the programmer who founded eBay, reminisced in a conversation with Ms. Whitman about his early values.
"I wanted to create a place where individuals could compete on a level playing field with big corporations," he said. And in a later speech, Ms. Whitman apologized to the eBay community for a deal it cut several years ago that gave special privileges to the Walt Disney Company that were not afforded to others auctioning off Disney memorabilia.
"We're not doing any more deals like that," she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); TRENDS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); FAMILY (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%); INTERVIEWS (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: EBAY INC. 

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%) SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES; 

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



763 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Liberia War Chokes the Life of Monrovia 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Liberia, June 29 

 BODY:
The old public hospital here in the Liberian capital stands on a hill overlooking the Atlantic, with a pair of stone lions perched alongside its wide majestic steps. It was once the seat of the health ministry. A generation of Liberians was born in its wards. 
 Today, it is a hollow cavern offering a grim sanctuary for families displaced by Liberia's unending civil war. Laundry is laid out on the steps to dry. 
 In the dark, a young girl stands in a doorway, washing with a bucket of water procured from who knows where. The beach out front has become a vast public toilet -- running water and latrines having become luxuries for the thousands of Liberians who have crowded in from the countryside.
Up the road, on a promontory overlooking the sprawling city that was named after the American president James Monroe, stands what looks very much like a replica of the White House. It is Monrovia's Masonic Temple, and its tall stone pillars announce the aspirations of a city settled 150 years ago by freed American slaves, looking for their own piece of Africa. 
Now, it is dingy and undignified, occupied by hundreds of people chased from their homes by mortars and machine guns, as government and rebel forces dueled for control of Monrovia last week. Head wraps and plastic mats shield the windows, keeping out the rain. The unkempt front lawn does double duty as laundry and lavatory. 
With health conditions so poor, many children here have been wheezing, vomiting and falling ill with diarrhea. A nearby clinic, run by the French aid agency Doctors Without Borders, is filling up with cholera patients. 
Few are leaving the Masonic Temple, uncertain about how long the latest cease-fire, which was announced on Friday, will hold. "The heart of a man is greatly wicked," roared Nathaniel Morris, a schoolteacher, who fled here last Tuesday. "We only wait."
Liberia's disintegration cries out from the ruins of its capital. Once, there was running water and electricity around the clock. Tens of thousands of foreigners made their living here: the Lebanese who plied their trades had a school opposite the old public hospital. The Indians built a Sikh temple down the road. Swiss, American and Belgian airlines made regular flights to the airport. Through the cold war years, American aid poured into the country, no matter what sort of president was in power. 
Monrovia today bears the scars of more than a decade-long string of battles. Its ruined architecture is the starkest metaphor for the collapse of the city's most basic functions. 
The health care infrastructure has crumbled. Schools have turned into refugee camps. Militias loyal to President Charles Taylor have become a terrifying de facto police force, accused by ordinary citizens of robbing them in the dark. 
At 4 a.m. on a recent day, government soldiers were said to have visited one man, demanding cash and leaving him with a bullet wound to his abdomen.
His sister carried him in a wheelbarrow to seek medical help -- there is no ambulance service here. A neighborhood doctor, Keressemba Conde, dressed the man's wounds. In Dr. Conde's clinic, he has tried to perform surgery without the most basic medical supplies -- no gauze, no pain killers, no antibiotics. 
The doctor said he himself had been threatened by pro-government militias. They came around the other night, he said, demanding his car. 
If and when an international peacekeeping force arrives, this is the rubble it will confront. Calls for intervention have grown louder in recent days: the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, declared on Saturday his urgent desire for a multinational force to be sent here, led by a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. 
Whether the United States will take an active part in that intervention depends on a number of issues that are yet to be resolved, including when and how Mr. Taylor will step down as president.
President Bush has already declared Mr. Taylor's resignation to be essential for peace in Liberia.
The question now is how soon Mr. Taylor could be persuaded to relinquish power or whether sending an international force could simply prolong his tenure. Mr. Taylor has said he is willing to go, but nothing about when. 
"We have to make sure that a stabilization force doesn't just stabilize the status quo," the United States ambassador to Liberia, John W. Blaney, said in an interview today. "We want an orderly transition, which includes Taylor stepping aside."
Persuading Mr. Taylor to step aside, officials with both administrations have suggested, could include wrestling with the Liberian president's most pressing challenge: an indictment by a United Nations-backed war crimes tribunal that charges him with crimes against humanity in connection with the war in neighboring Sierra Leone. Mr. Taylor wants the indictment, unsealed earlier this month, to be withdrawn. 
As the deal-making goes on, Monrovia sinks further. 
Downtown there is a half-finished skyscraper left over from the days of President Samuel Doe; his presidency ended with a brutal videotaped execution. 
Not far away, a half-finished bank building houses several hundred families; its ground floor is reserved for those in wheelchairs. Most are refugees dating back to the last war to gut the city, in 1996. 
They return to their homes during the good times and come back here when the mortars start flying again. Monrovia's grand old buildings may not do what their architects had in mind, but they serve the citizens well, as homes that can double as bomb shelters. 
"When there's fighting this building fills up," said Nathaniel Tamba, who has become a veteran at dodging the fighting. "There's some protection here."

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Africans Seek U.S. Involvement
MONROVIA, June 29 (Reuters) -- West African countries today urged the United States to join them in sending a force to stop Liberia's war, and a United Nations Security Council mission said it expected support from the world body.
The top official of the Economic Community of West African States regional bloc said in Nigeria that a credible force was needed to separate Liberia's warring sides.
"We can provide the manpower," the official, Mohamed ibn Chambas, said. "But we need material support and participation of some of the members of the Security Council, especially the United States of America."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a Monrovia hospital yesterday, Patrick Sumowar comforted his son, Courage, who lost an arm in a blast. (Agence France-Presse) Map of Liberia highlighting Monrovia: Monrovia, Liberia's capital, is groaning under the weight of war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); FAMILY (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); DISPLACED PERSONS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); COLD WAR (76%); REFUGEES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); SLAVERY (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (71%); POLICE FORCES (68%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (67%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); AIRPORTS (64%); AIRLINES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBERIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (79%); AFRICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



764 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Chill Flattens Mood at French Wine Fair 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: BORDEAUX, France, June 26 

 BODY:
Something was missing from the country's largest wine fair here this week, and it wasn't just the air-conditioning (in one of the exhibition halls, temperatures rose so high that corks popped on their own). The usual contingent of American wine merchants were mostly absent, confirming to many at the fair that American ill will over France's opposition to the war in Iraq bruised more than egos.
 French wine sales to the United States, once French winemakers' most promising market and now one of their greatest competitors, are going down the drain. 
 "It's clear from our American distributors that there is a hesitation to promote French wines for the time being," said Bruno Finance, sales manager for Yvon Mau, one of Bordeaux's largest wine merchants. He said French wine was losing its share of some other markets. "But as of today, the only place there is such a big loss is in the U.S." 
French exports to the United States are already suffering from a weak American economy and the dollar's diminished value against the euro, which makes French products more expensive for Americans. Overall French exports to the United States dropped by 21 percent in the first four months of the year, excluding the military category.
There is no doubt the trans-Atlantic dispute over Iraq has made things worse in a variety of industries. American aviation executives were noticeably absent from the biannual Paris Air Show this month, in step with the Pentagon, which sent fewer of its most elaborate planes.
France is trying to repair the damage with a maladroit public relations campaign whose tagline is, "Let's Fall In Love Again," featuring a video in which the aging comedian and filmmaker Woody Allen talks about French kissing his young wife. The Paris Tourism Office, which plans to decorate its Champs-Elysees center with stars and stripes on July 4, said many hotels in the capital would celebrate the American holiday.
But some in the wine business worry that the damage might not be easily repaired. French wines never fully recovered in the Scandinavian market after a 1995 boycott there to protest France's nuclear weapons testing in the Pacific that year.
"It gave people the opportunity to try other wines, and they never switched back," Mr. Finance said amid a clutter of half-filled wine glasses in his company's booth at the Vinexpo fair.
He fears that the pall over French wines has come at a time when competition is growing and the market is in flux. By the time the pall passes, he said, it may be too late for France to recapture its cachet.
France's stringent winemaking regulations make it more difficult for French wines to compete with many American and Australian brands, particularly in the United States, where consumers value the reliability of a standardized product. For example, American and Australian winemakers irrigate their vineyards to control the quality of their grapes, or mellow their wine by adding oak chips to the stainless steel tanks in which it is aged. All that is illegal here.
That puts French vintners more at the mercy of the weather. After the season, if they want to make a mellower wine, they have to invest in expensive, new oak casks. The result is wine that varies in quality from year to year, an unpredictability that is prized by connoisseurs but whose charm may be lost on the average American consumer. 
Because of the greater competition during a global glut, France turned 2.5 million gallons of unsold Beaujolais into industrial alcohol last year. There is so much on the market that some French table wine is now cheaper here than upscale mineral water.
Bordeaux, France's largest wine-producing region, is protected from the American slump somewhat because it can count on loyal imbibers at home. About two-thirds of the wine consumed in France comes from this region in the southwest.
The American market is far more important to other French wine regions. The country's American-bound wine exports, which totaled nearly $1 billion in 2002, account for 16 percent of all the wine France ships abroad.
The volume of those exports fell 9 percent in the first four months of this year, but the long-term trend is even worse, because that figure includes Bordeaux wine sold before it was bottled two years ago. 
More typical is Bernard Hervet, director of a large vineyard in eastern France's Burgundy region, who said over a glass of Chablis that his exports to the United States had fallen by nearly a third this year.
Louis Regis Affre, general manager of the France's Federation of Wine and Spirit Exporters, said retail sales of French wine continued to fall sharply in May, even though overall wine sales in the United States were growing. 
Florence Chartrier, who with her husband owns Smith Haut Lafitte, one of Bordeaux's premier vineyards, said the American market has been receding for years, making it harder for the big properties to sell their wine.
Last year, Ms. Chartrier said, the vineyard had to cut its prices 15 percent, but it took just three hours to sell out its production. This year with prices reduced even further, it took two weeks to sell everything, and not all those sales are yet final.
"People who normally take five cases are taking one this year," she said from the lawn of her chateau overlooking vines heavy with grapes. "There's a coolness to the market."
Part of the problem is that the American wine guru Robert Parker canceled his trip to taste the 2002 wine this year, saying he was worried about traveling during the war.
Mr. Parker, a Maryland lawyer and publisher of The Wine Advocate, a bimonthly guide, normally rates Bordeaux's top wines in the spring after the grapes are harvested. His ratings are so influential that they control both price and demand for the region's best wines. 
"His absence has had such a huge impact that's there's not much consumer demand for the 2002," said Todd Hess, the Chicago-based wine director for Sam's Wines & Spirits, a leading American retailer.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 9, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 30 about the scarcity of American merchants at a French wine fair in Bordeaux misstated the surname of the co-owner of Smith Haut Lafitte, one of the region's premier vineyards. She is Florence Cathiard, not Chartrier.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Falling American demand for French wines, especially since the tension over Iraq, was a major concern at a wine exhibition in Bordeaux last week. (Associated Press) Chart: "French Wine in Decline"Percentage change since 2002 of French wine unit sales in the U.S. for the four-week period ending about the 20th of each month Chart shows percentage change of wine sales in the U.S. since 2002. (Source: Information Resources)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); WINERIES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); MARKET SHARE (75%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (74%); BOYCOTTS (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); EURO (52%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) AQUITAINE, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (97%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



765 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Oblivious in D.C. 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
"Of all the challenges we face, none is more troubling than the fact that thousands of Oregonians -- many of them children -- don't have enough to eat. Oregon has the highest hunger rate in the nation."
-- Gov. Ted Kulongoski, in his 
 State of the State address. 
 Those who still believe that the policies of the Bush administration will set in motion some kind of renaissance in Iraq should take a look at what's happening to the quality of life for ordinary Americans here at home.
The president, buoyed by the bountiful patronage of the upper classes, seems indifferent to the increasingly harsh struggles of the working classes and the poor.
As Mr. Bush moves from fund-raiser to fund-raiser, building the mother of all campaign stockpiles, states from coast to coast are reaching depths of budget desperation unseen since the Great Depression. The disconnect here is becoming surreal. On Thursday the National Governors Association let it be known that the fiscal crisis that has crippled one state after another is worsening, not getting better.
Taxes have been raised. Services have been cut. And the rainy day funds accumulated in the 1990's have been consumed. If help does not materialize soon -- in the form of assistance from the federal government or a sharp turnaround in the economy -- some states will fall into a fiscal abyss.
That already seems to be happening in places like California, which has been driven to its knees by a two-year $38.8 billion budget gap, and Oregon, which has seen drastic cuts in public school services and the withholding of potentially life-saving medicine from seriously ill patients.
Most states have been unable to protect even the most fundamental services from damaging budget cuts.
"Few states have succeeded in exempting high-priority programs such as K-12 education, Medicaid, higher education, public safety or aid to cities and towns," according to the compilers of the Fiscal Survey of States, a report produced jointly by the governors' association and the National Association of State Budget Officers.
Scott Pattison, director of the budget officers' group, said, "If economic conditions remain stagnant or worsen, and if budget shortfalls continue next year, the states will have exhausted many of their options for countering a weak economy."
The budget crisis in California, where an unpopular Democratic governor is politically paralyzed and the Republicans in the State Legislature refuse to consider raising taxes, is potentially catastrophic. 
Jack Kyser, a public policy economist in Los Angeles told The Associated Press: "People are nervous. There's a real chance for a meltdown that could have rippling effects throughout the nation. This is something of a different magnitude than we've seen before."
The governors' association called the fiscal survey the most accurate gauge of the health of state budgets. Its discouraging findings were released as the president was preparing a fund-raising swing that added millions more to his campaign stockpile, and as the Internal Revenue Service was reporting that the nation's richest taxpayers were accumulating an even greater share of the nation's wealth.
Some Americans are missing meals and going without their medicine, while others are enjoying a surge in already breathtaking levels of wealth. So what are we doing? We're cutting aid to the former while showering government largess on the latter.
There's a reason those campaign millions keep coming and coming and coming.
A Times article last week noted that the wealthiest 400 taxpayers accounted for more than 1 percent of all the income in the United States in 2000, "more than double their share just eight years earlier."
The influence of the wealthy has always been great, but it hasn't always been so cruel. Especially in the past six or seven decades there were many powerful political and civic leaders who looked out for the interests of the less fortunate and pressed their claims for treatment that was reasonably fair.
That's changed. The Bush juggernaut, at least for the time being, is rolling over everything that dares to get in its way. And fairness is not something it is concerned about. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); MEDICAID (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TAX INCREASES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); CITY LIFE (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: TED KULONGOSKI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%) OREGON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



766 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Israel Gives Up Control Over Parts of Gaza Strip
Israeli troops returned part of Gaza to Palestinian control after the three leading Palestinian factions declared that they were suspending violence. Officially, Israel dismissed the cease-fire as a dodge to safeguard terrorists, but many Israelis hoped they might be entering a period of calm. A1

American Raids in Iraq
American forces carried out an aggressive series of predawn raids across central Iraq, aiming to root out groups that have been attacking alliedsoldiers and to project an intimidating display of power. The Army arrested more than 60 people, and seized several caches of weapons and documents. A1

The American civilian administrator of Iraq, L. Paul Bremer III, warned that anticoalition attacks in Iraq could escalate, saying the strikes were "a sign of weakness on the part of our enemy," and vowing that the country's reconstruction would not be deterred. A11

Iran Pressed on Nuclear Arms
Britain's foreign secretary, Jack Straw, urged Iran to sign an additional protocol to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty that would allow more aggressive United Nations inspections. Iran's foreign minister, Kamal Kharrazi, above, said other countries would first have to fulfill their obligations toward Iran. A10

Berlusconi's Future Brightens
Silvio Berlusconi, the Italian prime minister, will take over the rotating European Union presidency on Tuesday, and with the new immunity law that stopped his corruption trial at home, it seems some of his problems are easing. A2

Argentine Jailed in Madrid
Ricardo Cavallo, the former Argentine naval officer extradited from Mexico, was jailed without bail pending his trial in Madrid on charges of genocide and terrorism relating to the years of Argentina's military dictatorship. A3

Chechen Leader's Proposal
The Moscow-appointed leader of Chechnya, Akhmad Kadyrov, introduced a plan that would give the breakaway republic the autonomy it has always wanted. Many Chechens interpreted this as a way for him to improve his standing ahead of elections in October. The Kremlin has yet to respond. A4

Low Turnout Likely in Mexico
Mexico is holding the first national vote since the transition to multiparty rule, but half the electorate is expected to sit on its hands come Election Day, which would be a record rate of abstention. A2

Easing Trade in Asia
The governments of Hong Kong and mainland China concluded the Mainland and Hong Kong Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement. The are is also bracing for a huge protest planned over economic problems and an insular political system. A9

NATIONAL A13-16

12 Killed In Chicago As Porches Collapse
Twelve people died and more than 50 others were injured when the porches of a Chicago apartment where a party was taking place suddenly collapsed, crushing people in between the building's three wooden porches in a pile on the ground. City officials were investigating the cause of the deaths and the condition of the building where they occurred. A1

Bush Shores Up Support
Efforts by President Bush to enlist conservatives in the White House, and to champion their issues, has produced a base of support for him from this faction of the Republican Party, conservative leaders say. A14

A Salute to G.I. Joe
Hundreds of enthusiasts gathered at the seventh Hasbro International G.I. Joe Collectors Club convention outside San Francisco. At a moment when American troops are in Iraq and Afghanistan and support for the military is high, the cultural mythology of G.I. Joe is in the air. Sales of the action figure were up 46 percent last year, according to Hasbro. A1

Interned Americans Visit Past
The Minidoka Relocation Center in Idaho housed 13,000 interned Japanese-Americans during World War II. At a three-day event, dozens of internees and their families made what was, for most, their first trip back. A13

Bulger's Testimony Disputed
Contradicting the testimony of William M. Bulger before a Congressional hearing,a retired F.B.I. agent, said he tried to question Mr. Bulger, the University of Massachusetts president, in 1995 about the disappearance of his brother, a fugitive gangster. A13

A Camp that Builds Politicos
Eight months after the death of Senator Paul Wellstone, his two surviving sons and longtime campaign manager, fueled by $400,000 in donations by 8,000 former campaign contributors, have created "Camp Wellstone." A three-day immersion in community organizing, the first camp was held in Minnesota with 110 attendees. Nine are planned in several states through year's end. A14

Two Sides of Freshman Politics
For Candice S. Miller, a freshman Republican in the House of Representatives from Detroit, and Raul M. Grijalva, a freshman Democrat from Tucson, the last week was not much different than any other since they joined Congress in January. These lawmakers represent a microcosm of life in the House, where the political reality is: Republicans win and Democrats lose. A14

Democrat Raises $9 Million
Howard Dean announced that he had raised close to $9 million this year, establishing himself as a top-tier candidate in the Democratic presidential field. The figure transformed Dr. Dean from a maverick into a more traditional contender. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-9

New Jersey Foster Children Left in Psychiatric Wards
Scores of New Jersey's most troubled foster children, while in the custody of the state's Division of Youth and Family Services, have been admitted to psychiatric wards for emergency eight-day stays. But have remained there for weeks and months because the state has nowhere else to put them. A1

Celebrating Advances
New York City's gay and lesbian pride parade was even more celebratory than usual because of two significant advances in gay rights this month -- the United States Supreme Court's ruling striking down laws against sodomy and the Canadian government's decision to allow same sex-marriages. B1

Progress on New Jersey Budget
After days of public quarrels and recriminations, Democratic and Republican leaders of the New Jersey Legislature said early this morning that they were confident that they could reach agreement on a state budget before the deadline at midnight tonight. B5

ARTS E1-10

Record for Schiele Painting
In the auction world, all it takes is two stubborn collectors with deep pockets to create a buzz. So it was in a packed salesroom at Sotheby's on June 23, that a pair of telephone bidders fought over a painting by Egon Schiele. The work, "Krumau Landscape: Town and River" (1916), set a record price for that artist's work, selling for $21 million, almost twice its high estimate of $10.8 million. E1

New Ground Zero Proposals
For the last several months, the New York City Opera seemed to have the inside track on becoming the cultural anchor at the World Trade Center site. But the corporation overseeing downtown redevelopment, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, is planning to invite arts groups from all over the world to submit proposals, suggesting that a place for City Opera is not secured. E3

OBITUARIES A18-19

Katharine Hepburn
The actress whose independent life and strong-willed movie characters made her a role model for generations of women and a beloved heroine to filmgoers for more than 60 years, she was 96. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Germany to Speed Up Tax Cut
Desperate to pump some life into Germany's moribund economy, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder announced thathis government had approved plans to accelerate a sweeping tax cut. C2

Two New Chips from Intel
Intel plans to introduce two versions of its microprocessors for corporate and scientific markets. The company has been trying to offer a product line that has separate chip designs for desktop computers and corporate server computers. C2

Railroad Strike in South Korea
A strike by railroad workers shut down more than half of South Korea's rail service, including most of the freight trains, after the police detained 1,500 strikers in a raid on a university campus. C2

Vodafone and Real Media Player
RealNetworks Inc. plans to announce a partnership with the Vodafone Group, the world's largest cellphone operator, that would place Real Media Player in handsets using the Vodafone service. C3

Business Digest C1

SPORTS D1-8

Baylor Basketball Mystery
As the search for Patrick Dennehy, the missing Baylor basketball player, continued, a portrait began to emerge of a young man who is a study in contrasts. Dennehy, a 6-foot-10 center, has not been seen since June 11. D8

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Keeping the vision at ground zero; the legacy of Hans Blix; why testing can't fail.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E8
Metro Diary B2
Crossword E4
Weather A17
TV Listings E8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (87%); ELECTIONS (86%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); ARRESTS (75%); EXTRADITION (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); POLITICS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); BAIL (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (68%); GENOCIDE (66%); IMMUNITY (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); CITIES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: JACK STRAW (51%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); HONG KONG (92%); SPAIN (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); ITALY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



767 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Faces Fiscal Year Without Adopting a Budget 

BYLINE:  By PAUL von ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 28 

 BODY:
After weeks of partisan and largely fruitless negotiations, Connecticut's state government will begin a new fiscal year on Tuesday without a budget, the first time that has happened since 1991. 
 The 2004 fiscal year begins at 12:01 a.m. Tuesday, but Democratic lawmakers, who control both chambers of the General Assembly, and Gov. John G. Rowland, a Republican, gave up on reaching a compromise on Friday. 
 "If we have to be there all summer, we will," Mr. Rowland told reporters on Friday afternoon, vowing not to budge from his insistence that state taxes increase no more than $250 million next fiscal year. 
Conceding their failure, lawmakers plan to pass a resolution called a "minibudget" on Monday that would effectively keep the state government operating for two weeks while negotiations continue between two sides that show every sign of having grown weary of the process and of each other.
Last Monday, for instance, Mr. Rowland ridiculed Democratic legislators as "infantile" for insisting on more than $250 million in new taxes, and he accused them of breaking off negotiations when, it seems, all they did was step outside for a moment to speak to television reporters for their 5 p.m. newscasts.
Mr. Rowland, who has twice vetoed Democratic budget proposals in the past two months, has hinted that he might veto the Democrats' minibudget resolution as well, to keep a tighter grip on spending. State law requires that emergency services and others that are deemed critical continue to operate at all times. 
While Mr. Rowland has gone out of his way to portray Democrats as tax-obsessed bureaucrats, Moira K. Lyons, the Democratic speaker of the House of Representatives, has insisted that the protracted negotiations over next year's $13.5 billion budget are more about differences of opinion. Neither side has made much of an impression with the other. 
The 2004 budget is already projected to have a deficit of nearly $1 billion, mostly because tax revenue is declining in a weak economy. Mr. Rowland and Republicans want to close the gap chiefly through spending cuts and other measures that would affect mostly middle-class residents and poor people who rely on state health, transportation and employment services.
They also want more substantive wage and benefit concessions from the labor unions that represent about 47,000 state employees; many of those employees are scheduled to receive a 5 percent raise next week. 
Democrats want to place more of the burden on wealthier residents by adding a fraction of a percentage point to the income tax paid by those who make $500,000 or more a year. Democrats have resisted Mr. Rowland's idea of rolling back the state property tax credit to $170 from $500 because they say it would hurt middle-income residents. 
This is the third time in a year that Mr. Rowland and Democratic leaders have had to face down each other on budget matters. Last year, they haggled over the 2003 budget; in February, they finally agreed on an adjusted spending plan to account for declining tax revenue. Now they are back at the table, and each side seems increasingly perplexed by the other's proposals. 
"On both sides, everyone's patience is worn thin," said Ken Dautrich, associate professor of political science and director of the Center for Survey Research and Analysis at the University of Connecticut. "There's an exhaustion with the public and the governor and the Democrats in the legislature."
Both sides are also fed up with compromising on their core beliefs to accommodate the worst budget shortfall in more than a decade, said Howard L. Reiter, a UConn professor of political science. "Each party tends to find their situation somewhat frustrating, because they each have half a loaf," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: VON ZIELBAUER, PAUL; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



768 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Forecasts for '03, '04 Are Revised Upward

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Another forecast of advertising spending for 2003 is being revised upward, this time by ZenithOptimedia, the media services agency in London.
 In the midyear forecast that ZenithOptimedia plans to distribute today, the estimate for United States ad spending now calls for a gain of 2.7 percent from 2002. 
In December, the forecast was for a 1.9 percent increase. 
 The forecast for American ad spending growth in 2004 is also being revised upward, to 4.7 percent from the previous estimate of 3.6 percent.
For worldwide ad spending this year, ZenithOptimedia has not changed its forecast for growth of 2.9 percent from 2002. The worldwide estimate for next year has been changed to an increase of 4.7 percent compared with a 4.4 percent gain forecast in December.
ZenithOptimedia attributed the changes to factors like strong spending by the largest advertisers in the United States and the robust demand for commercial time on American television networks ahead of the 2003-4 season.
Other forecasters have recently made similar revisions. TNS Media Intelligence/CMR, adivision of Taylor Nelson Sofres that tracks ad spending, increased its prediction of United States ad spending growth in 2003 to 4.3 percent from 3.3 percent. And David Doft, an analyst at CIBC World Markets, increased his growth estimate to 3.3 percent from 3.1 percent.
ZenithOptimedia, which presents major forecasts in June and December, began to increase its estimates for 2003 in a quarterly report in April. The agency is jointly owned by the Cordiant Communications Group and the Publicis Groupe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (90%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (55%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (55%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (54%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



769 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Germany to Accelerate A Sweeping Cut in Taxes
Desperate to pump some life into Germany's economy, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder announced that his government had approved plans to accelerate a sweeping tax cut.
 The decision, reached at an unusual cabinet meeting, would bring forward by a year tax cuts that had been scheduled for 2005. The government estimates that the cuts, which will now take effect in 2004 along with other tax cuts, are worth 18 billion euros, or more than $20 billion. Page C2. 

The IG Metall union called off a strike for shorter work hours in eastern Germany. C2.

Liberty Leads Vivendi Bidding
As the Vivendi Universal board prepares to meet tomorrow to begin examining bids for its entertainment assets, Liberty Media, controlled by John C. Malone, is still considered by many industry executives and analysts to have the strongest chance of winning. But some analysts wonder whether the deal will be the best move for Mr. Malone. Other bidders include Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and two investor groups, one led by Edgar Bronfman Jr. and the other by Marvin Davis. NBC and Viacom have also expressed interest, although neither has submitted a formal bid. But Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chairman of G.E., NBC's parent, plans to meet in Paris soon with Vivendi's chairman, Jean-Rene Fourtou, above. C6.

Vodafone Adopts Real Media Player
RealNetworks plans to announce a partnership today with Vodafone that would place Real Media Player in cellphone handsets using the Vodafone service. C3.

Intel to Unveil New Chip Versions
Intel plans today to introduce versions of its microprocessors for the corporate and scientific markets. C2.

EBay Users Discuss Falling Prices
At a convention for current and prospective eBay members, much of the talk was of booming business at ever slimmer margins. C4.

Strike Curbs Rail Service in Korea
A strike by railroad workers shut down more than half of South Korea's rail service, including most of the freight trains, after the police detained 1,500 strikers on Saturday. C2.

Verizon and Union Set Positions
Threatened with a strike next month, Verizon Communications has a simple message for its unionized workers: let's form a partnership so Verizon, one of the few unionized telecommunications companies, can compete in a fiercely competitive industry. But Morton Bahr, the president of Verizon's largest union, said it was nearly impossible to take such talk of a partnership seriously when management was battling unionization efforts at Verizon's wireless operations. C4.

A Push From Homeland Security
To much of Silicon Valley, the government's mandate to improve homeland security looks as if it could be the next-best thing to the dot-com heyday -- a technology push, stimulated by government, that is expected to create a lucrative market in hardware and software for surveillance, data collection, data analysis and cybersecurity. New Economy. C3.

F.T.C. Increases Focus on Privacy
The Federal Trade Commission is moving more aggressively against e-tailers seen as too lax about protecting their customers' privacy. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C5.

Water Campaign Borrows From Soda
Decades after 7Up was sold as "wet and wild," Dasani, a brand of bottled water, is being pitched in a similar way, bringing soft-drink marketing tactics to an increasingly competitive fray. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 8,989.05 down 211.70Nasdaq composite -- 1,625.26 down 19.4610-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.58% up 0.22The euro -- $1.1428 down 0.0177The dollar -- 119.65 yen up 1.35

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (88%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); MICROPROCESSORS (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); STRIKES (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); CYBERCRIME (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (62%); TRAINS (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VODAFONE D2 GMBH (92%); VIVENDI (84%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (82%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (69%); VIACOM INC (55%); INTEL CORP (54%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (84%); VIV (BIT) (84%); VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: EDGAR BRONFMAN JR (79%); GERHARD SCHRODER (74%); JOHN MALONE (68%); JEFFREY IMMELT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) GERMANY (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



770 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Union and Verizon at Odds on Focus of Talks 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Threatened with a strike in a month, Verizon Communications has a simple message for its unionized workers: Let's form a partnership so Verizon, one of the few unionized telecommunications companies, can compete in a fiercely competitive industry.
 But the president of Verizon's largest union said it was well-nigh impossible to take talk of a partnership seriously when management was battling unionization efforts at Verizon's wireless operations. 
 Intent on cutting costs, Ivan G. Seidenberg, the chief executive of Verizon, the nation's largest local telephone company, said it needed the union to help reduce soaring health care costs, cut absenteeism and ease contractual barriers to relocating workers. 
Morton Bahr, the president of the Communications Workers of America, replied that "partnership is a two-way street." During a lengthy telephone interview on Friday, Mr. Bahr accused Verizon Wireless, a joint venture owned 55 percent by Verizon and 45 percent by the Vodafone Group of Britain, of "vicious, antiunion conduct," adding that the company's pleas for cooperation seem "kind of contradictory, hearing all that they're saying now against the union." 
Since contract talks began in earnest last Monday, this powerful union and this giant company, with more than $67 billion in revenue last year, seem to be talking past each other, with each side insisting on a different focus for the talks. With Verizon's traditional local telephone business shrinking, Mr. Seidenberg sees cutting costs as vital to Verizon's long-term health, while Mr. Bahr sees unionizing the steadily growing wireless operation as pivotal to his union's long-term health. 
Mr. Bahr has threatened a walkout on Aug. 2 by 75,000 Verizon workers in 12 states in the Northeast if the company does not agree to strong contractual provisions to pave the way to unionize nearly 20,000 workers at Verizon Wireless, which Verizon controls.
The union's No. 1 goal in its two-week strike against Verizon three years ago was to secure promises that would make it easier to unionize Verizon Wireless. But the communications workers have not unionized any of Verizon's wireless workers in the last three years, and they blame management's opposition for that. Union officials contrast this with their success at Cingular Wireless, a joint venture of BellSouth and SBC Communications where 15,000 wireless workers joined the union as management remained neutral. 
Company officials argue that it is inappropriate for the union to seek to negotiate about unionizing Verizon Wireless because the existing agreement governing those matters does not expire until August 2004. Furthermore, company officials assert, Verizon Wireless is a separate entity. 
"Verizon Wireless isn't part of these negotiations," said Peter Thonis, a company spokesman. "We believe it's extremely important to focus on the needs of the 75,000 workers covered by the current union contract."
Verizon executives also assert that managers of the wireless operation are not fighting unionization. These executive say managers at Verizon Wireless are allowed to speak out against unionization because the contract reached three years ago, even though it is called a neutrality agreement, allows either side to give its views on the subject.
"Our position isn't that we oppose unionization," said Eric Rabe, the vice president for media relations at Verizon. "We feel the employees should be the ones making this decision."
The union points to various Verizon Wireless letters and Web sites attacking unionization, including a letter by a vice president for human resources saying: "Our position is clear. We do not support the efforts by unions to unionize our employees."
Management, the union points out, has told workers that the union desperately needs them to increase membership and that when union bargaining begins workers can lose benefits they already enjoy.
"I know Ivan Seidenberg's philosophy," Mr. Bahr said. "He can't support this kind of vicious, antiunion conduct."
Greg Neubauer, a customer service representative at a Verizon Wireless call center in Orangeburg, N.Y., said the unionization campaign there failed because of management's campaign against it. "A lot of people are for the union, but people are afraid," he said. "Some of them are intimidated."
He said he earned $32,000 a year, while unionized operators and technicians generally earn $45,000 to $60,000 a year, which the company says makes them among the nation's highest-paid unionized employees. 
Verizon executives want the negotiations to focus on ways to make Verizon more competitive during an era of deregulation in which prices are falling, revenues are stagnant, several major telecommunications companies have gone bankrupt and low-cost competitors have entered the fray. 
"The issue of becoming a more efficient company and a better competitor is essential not only for Verizon but for our employees," Mr. Thonis said. "If you're thinking what's good for unionized workers, helping Verizon remain competitive has to remain high on the list."
"To maintain its market position in this competitive environment, Verizon certainly has an incentive to cut costs," said Richard W. Hurd, a professor of labor relations at Cornell. "By the same token, with a continued growth in wireless, the union has an incentive to gain access to the wireless part of the market. The C.W.A. won't recognize Verizon's needs unless Verizon recognizes the C.W.A.'s needs."
The company argues that it loses $600 million a year to absenteeism, noting that 6 percent of unionized workers are out each day. It also says that its workers pay 5 percent of their health care costs, while General Electric's unionized workers pay 18 percent and workers in the average company health plan pay 26 percent. The company has proposed higher co-payments and deductibles. 
"We're not proposing that they go to 18 or 26 percent, but there has to be a number that is fair above 5 percent," Mr. Rabe said.
Pointing to a recent contract with Qwest Communications International, in which the union agreed to wage freezes, Mr. Bahr said his union often granted concessions when companies were in need. But he said that Verizon, with high executive salaries and $4.08 billion in profit last year, was not in need.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Morton Bahr, president of the Communications Workers of America, has threatened a strike against Verizon if the company does not promise to pave the way to unionize workers at Verizon Wireless. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); STRIKES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (73%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (90%); AT&T INC (84%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (51%)

ORGANIZATION: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); VOD (NASDAQ) (90%); VOD (LSE) (90%); T (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: IVAN SEIDENBERG (58%) BAHR, MORTON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



771 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Apathetic Voters Seem Likely To Prolong Mexican Stalemate 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 29 

 BODY:
Midterm elections are coming next Sunday, the first national vote since Mexico's transition to multiparty rule. With control of Congress and the future of President Vicente Fox hanging in the balance, the warring parties are spending fortunes, filling the airwaves and the streets with messages of hope, progress and political salvation.
 Yet Mexico is unmoved. 
 Half the electorate will sit on its hands come election day, a record abstention rate, every poll suggests. While that kind of who-cares turnout is common nowadays in the United States, it has never happened here. 
Those who will vote seem set to keep power deeply divided, giving neither Mr. Fox nor any party an upper hand, all but ensuring three more years of political stagnation before the 2006 presidential election.
For Mexico, a nation that joyously emerged from seven decades of one-party rule only three years ago, the campaign has been full of "neither pain nor glory," a pithy Mexican phrase heard over and over in interviews with ordinary citizens and sophisticated politicos.
"This election is useless, absurd," said Jose Antonio Crespo, a leading political analyst in Mexico City,"an enormous waste of money." Roughly $500 million in public funds has gone to Mexico's 11 major political parties.
"They are frittering away nearly twice what they spent in the presidential election" three years ago, Mr. Crespo said, yet turnout seems set to drop by millions of votes. He added, "The people do not feel moved by anything being said."
Perhaps Mexicans are consciously choosing divided government and sending a message to Mr. Fox and his National Action Party, the PAN. The party has been campaigning with the slogan, "Get off the brakes of change!" But its message seems aimed less at the hearts and minds of voters than at the politicians of the Institutionary Revolutionary Party, the PRI.
The PRI held uninterrupted power in Mexico for 71 years, longer than any other rule of the 20th century, even the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, until Mr. Fox won the presidency in 2000. That election brought a great wave of optimism and widespread hope for change in Mexico, where the small middle class has a tenuous toehold on prosperity and half the nation remains dirt poor.
While Mr. Fox remains popular, his government has not won the nation's heart. The PRI still holds a plurality in the Senate and the lower House of Congress, and it has stymied Mr. Fox's proposals for changing Mexico at almost every turn.
The elections next Sunday could have offered National Action the chance to seize a legislative majority. All 500 seats in the lower House are at stake because Mexico has the world's toughest term limits: no one at the federal level can be re-elected, not members of Congress, senators or presidents.
The PRI now holds 207 of those House seats, the PAN 202. Pollsters predict each will get about a third of the vote, with the leftist Democratic Revolution Party getting perhaps one-fifth and minor parties the rest, leaving Congress divided as before.
For the audience -- 64 million eligible voters -- is throwing tomatoes at the political theater being presented these days, in particular panning the National Action Party for failing to deliver on its promises of economic reform and social progress.
"It's sad that so many people won't vote because it's one of the few obligations we have as citizens," said Carlos Tellez, a Mexico City printer. But, he added, neither he nor his fellow citizens hold politicians in high esteem: "Most of them are a big ball of rats."
This apathy gives the old governing party, the PRI, the chance to resurrect itself as, of all things, the party of change. 
"We are going to prove that there is life after death," said Jose Natividad Gonzalez Paras, the party's candidate for governor in Nuevo Leon, one of six states where the governor's seat is up for grabs.
In Nuevo Leon, a PAN stronghold, Mr. Gonzalez Paras is running so far ahead that he is already striding into a victory lap, and he is happy to explain why.
"The PAN hasn't provided concrete results for Nuevo Leon or Mexico," he said in his offices in Monterrey, the state capital. "Real change hasn't come."
In Monterrey, Enrique Canales, a writer, painter and cousin of the former PAN governor, found it hard to disagree.
"The control of the political bureaucracy, the teachers, the police, the bus drivers, that hasn't changed," he said. "The PAN tries to clean up the system, but 85 percent of the people in it remain PRI-istas. So the changes that the PAN proposes do not show up at the local level. People don't see a difference. People don't see a change. It will take two decades to change things."
Waiting another generation for change was not exactly what most Mexicans had in mind when 64 percent of them went to the polls in July 2000, when they voted the old rulers out and Mr. Fox into the presidency.
"After the tidal wave of 2000, no one knew exactly what would happen to the PRI -- would it scuttle away and vanish?" said Leo Zuckerman, another Mexico City political analyst. "It did not. The party still has a base, a third of the electorate. But it also has a bipolar disease -- on one side, fresh faces, on the other, the old shadowy schemers."
The old governing party controlled -- and to a lesser degree still controls, through loyalty cemented with favors -- a great swath of Mexican political life, particularly among the poor. Next Sunday, it will mobilize what is left of the machine in a get-out-the-vote effort that the PAN probably cannot match, given the expected low turnout.
The most forlorn figure in this political landscape may be Mr. Fox. He came to power comparing himself to men like Nelson Mandela and Mikhail S. Gorbachev, but his major accomplishment to date remains his own election.
If the voters will not give his party an edge in Congress, his hopes of realizing his plans to change Mexico's laws and Constitution will grow ever more distant. His once-warm relationship with President Bush, who took office shortly after he did, cooled after the Sept. 11 attacks and all but froze when Mexico did not support the war on Iraq. His great hope of reaching an accord with the United States over legal rights for millions of Mexican migrants seems dead.
"It is unlikely," the United States ambassador to Mexico, Tony Garza, said in a recent understatement, "that we are going to be able to re-create the irrational exuberance of the first days of the presidencies of George W. Bush and Vicente Fox."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A lawn attendant worked in front of the campaign trademark of Irma Serrano, a former actress seeking a seat in elections in Mexico City. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 



772 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2442 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: LAW ENFORCEMENT; 
U.S. Struggles to Transform A Tainted Iraqi Police Force

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 29 

 BODY:
In a freshly painted corner of the police college, the first Transition Integration Program -- a three-week course to remake the attitudes and behavior of the Iraqi police -- was under way on Saturday morning. The Iraqi officers sat quietly as their American military police instructors solicited words consistent with "democratic policing." 
 At the college gates, though, the city's traffic police were carrying out an exercise in democratic living -- nothing quiet about it. They had arrived in a seething knot of protest, chanting "Yes to freedom!" and "Yes to justice!" to complain about paltry pay and superiors who had been part of Saddam Hussein's Baath Arab Socialist Party. 
 "The people who sit inside are not better than us," one man shouted of his managers. "People shout at us, people curse at us. We must stand in the street, in the heat." 
All of the challenges of rebuilding Iraq, and its police force, seemed to coalesce in a moment -- the battle between the progress represented by the revamped police college and the continuing chaos and mounting security threats that threaten to swamp it. 
Even as they start trying to teach democratic policing, the Americans here are confronting both basic problems, like how to set pay levels and get the money, and larger ones, like how to identify and purge Baathists from the force. 
Superiors are grappling with the new phenomenon of insubordination in the ranks, while officers on the street are facing defiance -- and more -- from a no-longer-fearful public. Today, as two officers gave chase, thieves sprayed them with Kalashnikov fire. 
All of this must be fixed, and soon. 
Iraq is being remade in its entirety, with every institution -- education, health care, the justice system, the economy -- being reinvented. The world has done this kind of thing before, from Bosnia to East Timor, with mixed results. But it has not been done on such a large scale since the Marshall Plan, nor has America tried to do so much alone.
Without security, all else stalls. Doctors will not staff hospitals at night. Contractors will not repair buildings, roads and bridges. Investors will not put their money here. Iraqis are already growing to resent Americans who occupy Iraq but cannot protect them. 
For now, the American military is Iraq's police force, operating 1,000 daily patrols nationwide. But the military is a blunt instrument for the job, and as attacks on American troops increase, it must balance protecting Iraqis with protecting itself. More important, no one -- not the Americans, and certainly not the Iraqis -- wants the American military policing Iraq forever.
So a national police force created under British rule after World War I and militarized under Mr. Hussein must be transformed again. It is a colossal endeavor on which America's success in Iraq may hinge.
The former police commissioner of New York, Bernard B. Kerik, is at the center of the effort. On May 8, he was in New York working for former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's consulting firm. Then came the call from the office of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. Ten days later, Mr. Kerik landed in Iraq and moved into a white trailer in a palace parking lot. His new title is senior policy adviser to the Ministry of the Interior, which has no minister. 
That haste, and the broad administrative problems here, seem to reflect the sketchiness of the planning for postwar Iraq.
"There was an assumption that Western-style policing was present in Iraq, and that's simply not true," said Samuel Juett, a Justice Department contractor working with Mr. Kerik. 
Mr. Kerik's law enforcement team was mostly recruited in late April. It consists of 16 men, who, in addition to reinventing the police, must also reform customs, immigration, border control, the fire department and emergency services. 
They were already stretched thin. But now growing security concerns mean they must travel in pairs, although that basically halves their productivity. "I'm becoming a mother hen more than a manager," said R. Carr Trevillian IV, who, as assistant program manager under Mr. Kerik, supervises much of the team. 
By the time he leaves -- in three to six months -- Mr. Kerik must create a police force that understands, as he puts it, "the principles of a free and democratic society," but has enough public respect to maintain order.
No one, not even Mr. Kerik, thinks the task will be complete by then. Toppling Mr. Hussein's government took three weeks, but when people talk about rebuilding the society he ruled, they speak in years.
"This guy is building a country from scratch," Mr. Kerik said of L. Paul Bremer III, Iraq's civilian administrator, whom Mr. Kerik frequently compares to Mr. Giuliani. "I really don't feel people understand how enormous his job is."
Mr. Kerik, who briefly returned to New York last week, faces an enormous job as well, because his available raw material is tainted. The public saw the police as the most visible arm of Mr. Hussein's repressive security apparatus. So a reconstituted force -- essential to thwart nostalgia for the security of an authoritarian state -- is reviled as a symbol of the one just deposed.
The police, however, saw themselves as the government's stepchild, disliked by Mr. Hussein and disdained by the more elite security agencies. Many officers -- 8,000 have returned to work in Baghdad alone -- were poorly educated; most were poorly paid. They supplemented meager incomes with corruption so systemic that Iraqis say they could not report a crime without paying a bribe.
The security agencies largely kept order, so the police did not have to. Now that those agencies are gone, the police must be pushed out into the streets. "They don't understand the concept of patrol," Mr. Kerik said.
The new police force must be retrained in everything from human rights to the use of firearms. Their ranks, in which the officers were mostly Sunni Muslims of Mr. Hussein's governing class and the enlisted men mostly Shiites, must be diversified. 
But first, and fast, by order of Mr. Bremer, the force must be purged of senior Baath Party members. The complexity of doing that was clear at a police station in east Baghdad. Along a narrow room-length table set with small glasses of strong tea, the city's police commanders and their American advisers gathered one day early this month for their Monday meeting.
The Iraqi commanders, many of them large men stuffed into new uniforms designed by the allied forces, cut quickly to a central concern. They wanted to keep some of the Baathists.
Brig. Gen. Jamal Abdullah, the commander for west Baghdad, had 40 officials who were senior Baathists, but also men of talent. He needed them. Abdul Said, chief of the Criminal Identification Division, needed his Baathist fingerprint experts. Some of the American military advisers in the room backed them up. 
"I need to know," said Lt. Col. Richard Vanderlinden, the military policeman then advising General Abdullah. "Is this black and white, or is there room to maneuver?"
The answer came from a retired Army colonel, James Steele, now a civilian helping to restructure the force. "You don't have that discretion," he said firmly. "It's a trade-off between effectiveness and cleanliness here. The order is cleanliness."

A World Upside Down
In east Baghdad, 11 men sat sullenly inside the Rashaad police station, or what was left of it. The station was gutted in the postwar chaos. The prisoners broke out and fled. Rooms of files were burned in what appeared to be directed vandalism. The doors and windows were gone, and so were the patrol cars.
One hundred officers had returned to work at the station. They had 33 pistols and two Kalashnikov rifles among them, provided -- along with a hand-written receipt -- by the American military. Two of the officers had been issued new uniforms, but they were chafing over them. The uniforms looked too civilian, too unimportant, too much like the old bus collectors' uniform.
It could have been worse. Someone in Kuwait had decided at first to top off the new uniforms with baseball caps. "We're not playing sports," one Iraqi police official told Col. Teddy R. Spain, commander of the 18th Military Police Brigade. The cap idea was abandoned.
With or without caps, the police face a world turned upside down. An American soldier stopped by with instructions to adopt a "more polite, kind-hearted way" with the public. But the men -- with two chairs among them and no salaries since March (they have since been paid) -- were not feeling kind-hearted.
"In the past regime we had rights," Maj. Ali Dawood said glumly. "Now we have none."
The laments poured out. The security services that had sided with them against civilians and criminals were gone. They no longer felt safe in a society flooded with weapons. Before, they had dealt with three or four killings a month. Now there was almost one a day -- and no one to take fingerprints or photos.
To the officers, one unassailable fact hovered like the helicopters circling over Baghdad. "It's an occupation," said Hassan Zeppala, a 36-year-old officer in west Baghdad. "You feel a kind of suffocation."
Colonel Spain, who is Mr. Kerik's military counterpart, balked at that. "The average soldier clearly believes we liberated the country of Iraq," he said. "But you know," he added, "we won the war."
As winners, Americans may enact any decree. Colonel Spain, who introduces himself to Baghdad residents as their police chief, fretted about the increase in cars with tinted windows, worrying they were transporting weapons. "I need to talk to my superiors about outlawing tinted windows in Iraq," he said. 
Not long after, they did.

Lessons From New York
All the members of the initial American team for the Ministry of Interior were new to this place except one, Nouman H. Shubbar, a Philadelphia police sergeant with an Iraqi father and a German mother. He left Iraq at 18 and returned in May at 39. With his command of Arabic, his knowledge of the culture and his ability to earn the trust of average police officers, he has proved to be Mr. Kerik's best source of intelligence and his most reliable link to Iraqi society.
Mr. Kerik has moved quickly. His team drafted a short-term plan for allied commanders around the country to get police services running in the areas they control -- a plan so meticulous that it detailed how many cases of push-pins, boxes of trash bags, pairs of handcuffs and protective vests each station should have.
He ordered 450 patrol cars and a sophisticated $16 million police radio system from Motorola and got money to begin renovating police stations. He put together a long-term plan to retrain and restructure the force, starting with a management seminar for its leadership. 
He is trying to apply the principles that worked so well for him in New York: measure everything, pay attention to details, find and promote leaders.
But how do you measure allegiance to a fallen government? How do you keep an eye on details in a culture you do not know how to read? How do you promote leaders when you are also flushing them from the force? Those questions hovered over a recent Sunday meeting between Mr. Kerik and General Abdullah, the commander of west Baghdad.
Mr. Kerik had heard good things about General Abdullah and had been impressed, not least by his imposing, 6-foot-4-inch physical presence. Mr. Kerik left this meeting even more so. "I liked him," the irrepressible, often profane Mr. Kerik said with a grin several times later in the day, dwelling on General Abdullah's close-cropped hair, clean desk and pressed shirt. 
What he found most impressive was that General Abdullah produced, unprompted, his own version, albeit a primitive one, of Compstat, the systematic tracking of crimes and directing of resources that New York used to reduce crime. 
"He's got better stats than we do," Mr. Kerik joked.
The bonhomie was real, but conditional. Even as Mr. Kerik scouted General Abdullah as a possible leader, his men were scouring the general's past in the Baath Party. Both men are 47 and have spent most of their adult lives in law enforcement. But Mr. Kerik, who had also been New York City's corrections commissioner, came up through a merit-based system that allowed a high-school dropout and third-grade detective to rise to the top of New York City's police and prison systems.
General Abdullah toiled in a closed, politicized system imposed from above, doing what was necessary to survive and advance, but, he said, no more. Having lived under Mr. Hussein's way, he was now trying to learn Mr. Kerik's.

A Stream of Discontent
At midday one Saturday, the sun bore down like a drill outside the Jazaer station house in Sadr City, a Shiite slum in east Baghdad. 
The station, with an armored Humvee out front, was heavily fortified. An American sergeant with an M-4 carbine manned the front desk, waiting for the public to report crimes. 
Around him, but incomprehensible to him, a stream of discontent gurgled: men complaining about former Baathists still on the force -- chief among them Maj. Gen. Makki al-Aani, who as commander of east Baghdad had been working closely with the Americans.
Down the hall, the station's Iraqi commander, Brig. Ali Yasari, 48, sat in his office at a desk bare but for a watch, desk calendar, notebook and small Koran. With 26 years on the force, Brigadier Yasari was not sure how much the Americans had to teach, but he would give them his help. They were occupiers in his station house, but also his guests.
As he spoke, his officers entered and exited the barren room with foot-stomping salutes, one more relic of the Baathist militarization of the police force, one more practice Mr. Kerik and his men planned to banish.
Mr. Kerik remains firm on this point: the culture must change. When Iraqi commanders express resistance to service-oriented policing, saying, "We don't do that," Mr. Kerik's aides respond, "You will, or we'll find someone else."
Michael Turner, the quietly efficient manager of Mr. Kerik's police program, said, "You've got an entire group that's still in denial." Some would never change, he predicted. Others would resist and be removed. Most would eventually reconcile to the new reality.
The team was going to impose women as interpreters, despite some resistance. Military ranks would convert to civilian ones -- "the whole general thing's going to change," Mr. Turner's deputy, Mr. Trevillian, said -- and reduce their number.
They vowed to continue expelling the bad elements, including General Aani. "He's a liar and a Baathist," Mr. Kerik said, citing intelligence from throughout the ranks. A day later, he fired him.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An American soldier and an Iraqi recruit yesterday examined the new uniforms for Iraq's police force, which is being revamped and retrained. (Mikhail Metzel/Associated Press)(pg. A1); Iraqi police officers are being retrained in Baghdad under the guidance of American military police instructors. (Farah Nosh for The New York Times); Newly hired Iraqi police officers arrested a man suspected of robbery and murder in Baghdad last week.; (Samir Mezban/Associated Press); The former police commissioner of New York, Bernard B. Kerik, at left on a patrol in Baghdad, is leading the effort to rebuild Iraq's police force. (Molly Bingham for The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (95%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); WORLD WAR I (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); HOSPITALS (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003 

 
