

601 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Pushes Skeptical Birmingham to Dream on an Olympic Scale

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 

 BODY:
In his first year as Birmingham's mayor, Larry P. Langford has proposed a $500 million domed stadium, a $125 million law enforcement complex and a $33 million trolley car network.
 But those ideas were dwarfed by Mr. Langford's proclamation this month: He wants the Olympics.
 ''Why shouldn't Birmingham host the Olympics in 2020?'' Mr. Langford, 60, asked in an interview at City Hall, smiling coyly and puffing a menthol cigarette. 
 With 230,000 people, Birmingham is far smaller than most of the cities that have played host to the Summer Olympics. It lacks sufficient hotel space, transportation options and athletic facilities, as the mayor concedes. And Atlanta, the last American city to host the Summer Games, in 1996, is only 145 miles away.
 No matter, Mr. Langford said. ''Our city has allowed the world to tell us for too long that we're 'less than' and 'too small,' and we've bought into it,'' he said. ''We need to start thinking big.''
 The mayor proposed constructing roadways, hotels and athletic facilities and spreading Olympic events throughout Alabama and into neighboring states.
 The response has alternated between laughter and frustration. Roads are deteriorating in the city. The murder rate is rising. And the county that Birmingham is part of, Jefferson, where Mr. Langford was the president of the County Commission until 2007, is on the brink of what could be the largest municipal bankruptcy in American history.
 ''Birmingham has an incredible number of needs, and we never have sufficient money to fund even half of them,'' said Valerie A. Abbott, a member of the City Council. ''Why would we spend money on something where we have no hope of being selected? It does not take a very sharp person to see that we're out of our league and don't have any hope of getting into the league.''
 But in a city forever toiling to escape Atlanta's shadow and the shame of its racial history, Mr. Langford, who is black, envisions a lofty future. 
 He had T-shirts and tote bags printed with the slogan ''Olympics 2020: Why Not Birmingham?'' His official proposal for the Games includes the Robert F. Kennedy quotation, ''Some men see things as they are and say, 'Why?' I dream of things that never were and say, 'Why not?' ''
 At many points in Birmingham's past, times of trouble have been accompanied by declarations of a bright future, said Diane McWhorter, author of ''Carry Me Home,'' the Pulitzer Prize-winning history of the city's civil rights movement. 
 ''But usually it is the white folks who are trying to distract away from the race problems,'' Ms. McWhorter said. ''Now Langford has sort of adopted the mantle of image management.''
 By all accounts, Birmingham's odds of winning the Olympics are slim. ''With all due respect to the mayor of Birmingham, it's just not anywhere on our radar screen,'' said Darryl Seibel, a spokesman for the United States Olympic Committee. ''Right now, our attention is focused on one bid and one bid only, and that's our 2016 effort in Chicago.'' 
 ''Literally impossible,'' was the prediction of Ed Turanchik, a developer who organized the unsuccessful bid by Tampa, Fla., for the 2012 Games. ''Sure to fail'' and ''the longest of long shots,'' declared The Birmingham News.
 When Mr. Langford, a Democrat, ran for mayor, he promised big ideas. Against nine opponents, including the incumbent, he won without a runoff, under the slogan ''Let's Do Something.'' 
 But his first year in office has been shadowed by controversy. In April, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil complaint against Mr. Langford, alleging that while on the County Commission he arranged $6.7 million in business for a Montgomery banker who gave him $156,000 to pay a personal loan, income taxes and clothing bills. He denies the charge. 
 In response to the city's rising murder rate, Mr. Langford held a prayer service in April in which he wore a burlap sack and ashes on his forehead, an Old Testament tradition, and declared that ''Satan is at work in this town.'' 
 Besides the Olympics, the mayor's most ambitious project is the construction of a domed stadium. He is scouting locations for the stadium, which he says could be the home of college sports tournaments and a professional team. 
 Mr. Langford has issued his expensive proposals as many cities have scaled back their budgets as the economy has slowed. ''There's all this talk about inflation, recession,'' he said. ''I choose not to participate. I just don't have this defeatist attitude.''
 City Council members have complained that Mr. Langford has not provided enough details about how his proposals would be financed. ''Everyone on the Council, we're all interested in seeing the plan, a plan, some plan,'' Ms. Abbott said.
 Even if Birmingham bids and fails, some Olympic organizers say it could produce benefits.
 ''It's helpful for cities to think big thoughts,'' said Nick Vehr, a public relations executive who organized Cincinnati's bid for the 2012 Olympics. ''It forces people to pull back and think about their city from a perspective they're not used to.''
 For Mr. Langford, that is only part of the goal.
 ''The Olympics is about unity,'' he said. ''It's about bringing people together to overcome adversity. It's about having a can-do attitude. Birmingham mirrors what the Olympics is about to a point where I don't see how they can turn us down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Larry P. Langford promised big ideas in his run for mayor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY TRAMONTINA/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CRIME RATES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); SMOKING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); HISTORY (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); WRITERS (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (56%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) ALABAMA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



602 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: At Conference On the Risks To Earth, Few Are Optimistic

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

DATELINE: ERICE, Sicily 

 BODY:
This ancient hilltop town, rife with Roman, Greek, Norman and other influences, is hosting a very modern gathering: a conference on global risks like cyberterrorism, climate change, nuclear weapons and the world's lagging energy supply.
 More than 120 scientists, engineers, analysts and economists from 30 countries were hunkered down here for the 40th annual conference on ''planetary emergencies.'' The term was coined by Dr. Antonino Zichichi, a native son and a theoretical physicist who has made Erice a hub for experts to discuss persistent, and potentially catastrophic, global challenges.
 The participants were not particularly optimistic. They presented data showing that the boom in biofuels was depleting Southeast Asian rain forests, that ''bot herders'' -- computer hackers for hire -- were hijacking millions of computers, and that the lack of progress over handling nuclear waste was both hampering the revival of nuclear energy and adding to terrorism risks. 
 The meetings, which end Sunday, were sponsored by the Erice-based Ettore Majorana Foundation and Center for Scientific Culture and by the World Federation of Scientists in Geneva. Both organizations are led by Dr. Zichichi with what the physicist Dr. Richard L. Garwin, a longtime Erice conference participant and expert on nuclear weapons, affectionately called ''imperious'' zeal. 
 Dr. Zichichi, 78, controls every aspect of the sessions, including the seating in the seminars and the wine selections at the nightly dinners.
 His goal is to foster what he calls ''a science without secrets and without borders,'' mixing disciplines and cultures, and to laud veterans and emerging talents in hopes of propelling breakthroughs. 
 He said past successes included focusing attention on the need to reduce nuclear stockpiles and developing the first detailed analysis of flood risks along the Yellow River in China.
 The threat of cyberattacks was also a focus of this year's meeting. In a session on information security, Hamadoun I. Toure, the secretary general of the International Telecommunication Union, warned that pervasive computer use, while offering the prospect of a global ''knowledge society,'' also made billions of individuals into potential superpowers. 
 ''Every single brain on earth is equal and can trigger an attack,'' he said. 
 Jody R. Westby, the chief executive of Global Cyber Risk, a Washington-based consulting company, warned that governments were not doing enough to anticipate attacks. She said that the United States, while investing heavily in classified work on communications networks, had only one small program doing advanced research on the vulnerabilities in the private networks that handle the brunt of government communications and information management. 
 In a workshop on the northward spread of mosquito-borne ailments, participants discussed the growing gap between wealthier and poorer nations in dealing with health risks. 
 After presentations on recent outbreaks of the tropical chikungunya virus in Italy, Baldwyn Torto of the International Center of Insect Physiology and Ecology in Nairobi, Kenya, suggested that too much of the discussion was focused on girding Europe against further outbreaks. A better approach, he said, would be to attack such diseases in the tropical spots where they originate. 
 At a final gathering on Saturday, Bill Fulkerson of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, said that meetings in the next several years would likely concentrate on the technological and scientific needs of developing countries that are trying to expand their economies without diminishing resources.
 The daunting nature of the problems did not seem to blunt the experts' determination to look for answers. 
 ''What option do I have?'' said Richard Wilson, 82, a Harvard physicist and an expert on nuclear power and environmental risk. ''I could go down to Hilton Head and take a little club and knock a ball around the course, but I don't find that a very attractive thought.''

GRAPHIC: Dr. Antonino Zichichi, a physicist, ran a conference in Sicily to discuss global risks like cyberterrorism and climate change. ANDREW C. REVKIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); CYBERTERRORISM (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); BIOMASS (77%); PHYSICS (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); ENTOMOLOGY (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (75%); COMPUTER CRIME (74%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (72%); NUCLEAR WASTE (72%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); TERRORISM (68%); BITES & STINGS (62%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (62%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (62%); TROPICAL DISEASES (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (61%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); BIOFUELS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ITALY (78%); SWITZERLAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



603 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: A Superpower Is Reborn

BYLINE: By RONALD STEEL. 
Ronald Steel is a professor of international relations at the University of Southern California.

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
 THE psychodrama playing out in the Caucasus is not the first act of World War III, as some hyperventilating politicians and commentators would like to portray it. Rather, it is the delayed final act of the cold war. And while the Soviet Union lost that epic conflict, Russia won this curtain call in a way that ensures Washington will have to take it far more seriously in the future. 
 This is not just because, as some foreign-policy ''realists'' have argued, Moscow has enough troops and oil to force us to take into consideration its supposedly irrational fears. Rather, the conflict in Georgia showed how rational Russia's concerns over American meddling in its traditional sphere of influence are, and that Washington had better start treating it like the great power it still is. 
 As the cold war ended, the Russians voluntarily, if grudgingly, gave up their cordon sanitaire in Eastern Europe, but they still view it as a necessary zone of protection. The United States brushed off the Russian complaints over the deployment of American missiles into Eastern Europe and Washington's effort to extend NATO membership to Ukraine and Georgia. But Russians have a good point that, to them, this is as if Moscow had signed up Cuba and Venezuela in a military pact and then tried to plant missiles there pointing north. 
 It was inevitable that the Russians, now restored to prosperity by their oil and gas resources, would push back somewhere, and the hot-headed Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, gave them an easy excuse. What has followed in Washington is a field day of self-righteous indignation as politicians on both sides of the aisle line up to proclaim their solidarity with the little guy and deplore the interference of bullies in nations that just want to be left alone. 
 But such grandstanding ignores an old truth of geopolitics: great powers live by different rules than do minor ones. They demand respect -- and obedience -- from their weak neighbors. Sometimes they are explicit about this, as was United States Secretary of State Richard Olney when, in 1895, he declared, with respect to the Monroe Doctrine, that ''today the United States is practically sovereign on this continent, and its fiat is law upon the subjects to which it confines its interposition.'' 
 Moscow cannot be expected to show any less concern about the political orientation of the former constituent republic on its critical southern frontier. Great powers zealously guard what they benignly refer to as their ''sphere of influence.'' This may be a shame, but it is the way the world works, and always has. And no country has been more insistent than the United States in demanding that its interests be respected by its neighbors. Latin Americans can attest to that. 
 The limits of Russia's post-cold-war retreat have apparently been reached, and the reversal of the power equation has gone too far to be sustained. Today's leaders in Moscow are determined to protect what they perceive as their vital interests. The task for American leaders is not to pretend that these interests do not exist or can be safely ignored. Rather, it is to work out a modus vivendi based not on wishful thinking or dreams of even greater glory, but on the sober facts of power realities. 
 The first essential step for the leader of the Western alliance is to tone down the bombast and restore a dialogue with Russia. Our peripatetic secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice, should have jetted off to Moscow, not Tbilisi. Careless talk about throwing Russia out of the Group of 8 economic powers will only backfire against the West's own interests. The whole point of such organizations is not that they are a reward for obliging behavior, but rather that they provide a forum for dealing with common problems.
 Second, we should shelve loose talk about bringing either Ukraine or Georgia into NATO -- at least until we are willing to invite Russia itself. NATO is essentially still a cold-war military pact seeking a new identity that it has not yet found. Admitting these two former Soviet republics would be interpreted by Moscow as anti-Russian provocation -- and rightly so. And even if it didn't provoke a new cold war, it would create serious tensions within NATO itself. 
 Third, we should meet with our NATO partners to work out a common approach to the problem of ethnic separatism. We handled this badly in the Balkans by facilitating the violent dismemberment of Yugoslavia along ethnic lines, and then, over vociferous Russian objections, recognizing the rebellious Serbian province of Kosovo as a separate state. The tearing apart of nations along ethnic lines is not a problem limited to the Balkans. Strong separatist movements exist in several European states, such as Britain, Italy and Spain, and may soon tear Belgium apart. Is this a development that we want to facilitate?
 At a time when this nation is bogged down in two costly and seemingly endless wars in the Middle East and Central Asia, it would not seem prudent to pick a fight with Russia over a rebellious, territorially ambitious former province. And it might be wise to recall the warning of John Quincy Adams in 1821 that by going ''abroad in search of monsters to destroy'' to support the territorial ambitions of others, the United States would ''involve herself beyond the power of extraction in all the wars of interest and intrigue, of individual avarice, envy and ambition, which assume the colors and usurp the standard of freedom.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); ARMED FORCES (75%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); GEORGIA (93%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); UKRAINE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



604 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Shareholder Agenda: Tea and Blank Pages

 BODY:
As shareholder meetings in India go, it was not beyond expectations -- that is, if one expects a colorful procession of shareholders marching up to a microphone, reciting original poetry in Sanskrit and chanting in praise of Lakshmi, the Hindu goddess of prosperity. 
 The Indian press corps is familiar with such events at annual meetings of the Indian Hotels Company Limited, better known as Taj Hotels, one of 98 companies under the umbrella of the Tata Group, based in Mumbai. 
 The meeting this month came the day before the country's annualIndependence Day celebration, so Indians may have felt especially entitled to express feistiness. Even Tata's chairman, Ratan Tata, took his government to task for what he called ''missing the tremendous spin-off potential'' of tourism in India, which the World Travel and Tourism Council already cites as the third-fastest growing tourist market in the world.
 Also at the meeting, a shareholder made a passionate plea for more Indian teas and fewer British varieties at various Taj hotel restaurants, and another chided board members for wasting a blank page in the annual report.
 Otherwise, investors had little to complain about. Raymond Bickson, Taj chief executive, reported that dividend payout in 2007-8 increased by 19 percent over the previous year, that profit after taxes rose 17 percent, that the average room rate went up 16 percent and that 14 Taj hotels outside India are projected to open by the end of 2010. PERRY GARFINKEL 
 CELLPHONE SILENCE IS GOLDEN Not surprisingly, Anna Post, great-great-granddaughter of the etiquette expert Emily Post, has problems with high-tech devices when they're used impolitely.
 ''I really dislike people BlackBerrying in front of me while we're speaking; I can't stand it,'' Ms. Post, who is 29, said last week on a visit to New York to promote www.theetiquetteeffect.com, a Web site on contemporary etiquette that she has created with Hyatt Place hotels. 
 If people are in a meeting and expect an important message, she advises them to leave their BlackBerrys or cellphones on vibrate, and to check them on breaks. ''Let people know you're expecting the message in advance,'' she said. ''And remember these devices have an 'off' button, and that it's O.K. to use it.'' JANE L. LEVERE
 MAKING A HYBRID HEARD Automakers have spent decades trying to make their cars quieter than the competition's. Now two entrepreneurs have formed a business around the notion that some cars are just too quiet.
 Everett Meyer and Bryan Bai, two recent Stanford graduates, have formed Enhanced Vehicle Acoustics in Santa Clara, Calif. They soon hope to begin selling a module that can be installed in hybrid cars like the Toyota Prius to create artificial engine noise through speakers mounted near the wheels. Normally when hybrids travel at slow speeds on electric power, they are silent, which safety advocates say poses a danger to pedestrians -- particularly blind ones.
 A bill introduced in Congress this year and supported by the National Federation for the Blind would set minimum sound levels for hybrids. Regardless, Mr. Meyer and Mr. Bai are optimistic about their invention. 
 ''People who drive Priuses are generally pretty conscientious and aware,'' Mr. Meyer told the Stanford News Service, ''so it seems like a good beginning market.'' NICK BUNKLEY 
 LET THE SHOPPING BEGIN Olympics fans will miss their fix once the torch is extinguished Sunday in Beijing. But Ray Brunner, chief executive of the furniture seller Design Within Reach, might be forgiven if he heaves a sigh of relief. 
 During a recent conference call with investors, Mr. Brunner said his company had shipped its August catalog early to get ahead of the Games, which he called ''historically distracting to the shoppers.'' 
 For its pre-Olympics second quarter, the company's sales were down 3.6 percent from the same period last year. But he said his company was ''well positioned'' despite the current economy. WENDY FRIED 
 SCRUBBING THE BEIJING AIR IQAir, a Swiss manufacturer of air purification systems, saw an opportunity when it realized that the Summer Olympics were being held in one of the world's most polluted cities. It equipped the Beijing living quarters and training facilities of American athletes with its products. 
 The company also installed its equipment in an apartment in the heart of the city and measured the quality of indoor versus outdoor air, showing the results on a Webcam and in a blog.
 ''We'd like to set up similar apartments in cities that include Los Angeles and New York City to show that no matter where people are, they can breathe clean air,'' said Frank Hammes, president of IQAir North America. ''We've been able to achieve in air quality what compares, probably, to what you're breathing on top of the Swiss Alps.'' PATRICIA R. OLSEN

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anna Post, above, great-great-granddaughter of Emily Post, left, is in the family business with a Web site about contemporary etiquette. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY POST INSTITUTE)
 Raymond Bickson 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DIVIDENDS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TEA (76%); TOURISM (74%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (72%); HOTEL AMENITIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: TATA GROUP (92%); THE INDIAN HOTELS CO LTD (84%)

TICKER: INDHOTEL (NSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%)

PERSON: RATAN TATA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



605 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1848 words

HEADLINE: The American Wanderer, in All His Stripes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
That an air of the enigmatic attends Barack Obama is a commonplace; he is a man of fractured geography and family and wanderings. 
 He came of age in far corners, Indonesia and Hawaii, went to schools on both coasts and landed in Chicago, where he had no blood tie. With talent and ambition, he has leapt for the presidency at a tender age and will go to Denver to claim his Democratic nomination for the office. 
 There is to Mr. Obama's story a Steinbeck quality, like so many migratory American tales: the mother who flickers in and out; the absent and iconic father; the grandfather, raised in the roughneck Kansas oil town of El Dorado, who moves the family restlessly, ceaselessly westward. 
 The American DNA encodes wanderlust ambition, and a romance clings to Mr. Obama's story. The roamer who would make himself and his land anew is a familiar archetype. 
 And yet to describe such a man as rootless, as some people do, can stir up more questions, and an ambivalence reflected in the answers. What is rootlessness anyway? The word connotes something both celebrated and feared. Early on in Mr. Obama's time in Chicago, the Democratic machine types would ask of this preternaturally calm young pol: Who sent him? 
 That question, probing and suspicious, has tendrils extending deep into our history. Again and again in American culture, the rootless outsider becomes an insider, and begins to guard his prize. 
 First he has to find that prize. For four centuries hope and despair pushed immigrants to these shores. Royalist Cavaliers found in the Virginias a new hierarchy. Puritans spread insistently across not always fruitful lands of New England. The Highlands English and Scots no sooner landed in Philadelphia in the 18th century than they lit out for the hills of Pennsylvania and down the mountain ridges of the Appalachians. In their sackcloth and baggy trousers, they were unceremonious and warlike wanderers.
 ''When I get ready to move, I just shut the door, call the dogs and get started,'' is a Highlands saying transposed to a new world. The historian Frederick Jackson Turner argued in 1893 in his influential ''Frontier Thesis'' that the key to American vitality could be found in this relentless, drifting movement.
 But always newcomers rubbed against the settled -- cattlemen battled farmers, one immigrant wave greeted the next with suspicion.
 Primal American story though it is, rootlessness offers many variations. 
 There is the low-caste outcast, Huck Finn, working his way down the Mississippi. Huck's story begins even as the quintessentially American novel ends: ''But I reckon I got to light out for the Territory ahead of the rest, because Aunt Sally she's going to adopt me and sivilize me and I can't stand it.''
 And there is the ambitious wanderer aware that reinvention lies east or west of home. So F. Scott Fitzgerald's Jay Gatsby -- Jimmy Gatz to those who knew the grafter as a farmboy in North Dakota -- inhabits a mansion on the North Shore of Long Island, where he is dapper, handsome, cosmopolitan and elusive. That none of this ends well, that he ends floating face down in a pool as the narrator, Nick Carraway, returns to the Midwest, matters little. Here, in extremis, is the American urge to remake oneself.
 Rootlessness gets more complicated when African-American history is unpacked. Blacks experienced two fundamental migrations: in chains to the New World, and years later, pushed by the racist and economic harshness of the post-Reconstruction South, on railcars moving northward to a great rim of industrial cities. The ''Bound No'th Blues,'' Langston Hughes termed it.
 (Mr. Obama's family tale is distinctive in that it owes nothing to that migration. His African father returned to Africa. The reverse migration is not uncommon; perhaps half of the Italians who landed at Ellis Island returned to Europe.)
 The migrations never stop. Even today, 2 in 10 households in the nation move every 15 months to two years -- a restlessness unique among the people of a developed nation.
 ''Unrootedness is, and always has been, part and parcel of being American,'' Arnold Rampersad, a professor at Stanford University and biographer of Ralph Ellison and Hughes, said in an e-mail message. ''It is the flip side of perhaps the defining aspect of Americanness, the capacity of its citizens to reinvent themselves.''
 Nonetheless, it is often suggested that Americans desire a lodestar rather than a wanderer in their leaders. The Democratic strategist Mark Penn advised Hillary Rodham Clinton, an Illinoisan by way of Yale, Arkansas, Washington, D.C., and now Chappaqua, N.Y., to emphasize her down-home Midwestern roots during the primary, the better to contrast with Mr. Obama.
 And some presidents do reinforce this notion. Lyndon B. Johnson drew power from Texas, as Jimmy Carter did from his Georgia peanut farm. Bill Clinton studied at Oxford but tended to his Arkansas roots. He claimed Hope as hometown, although it was worldly Hot Springs, with gambling and delights of the flesh, that shaped him.
 But many presidents are shallow-rooted trees, even if they're rarely perceived as drifters; far more often, ''transplant,'' with its connotation of re-rooting, is the unthreatening label they take on. 
 Ronald Reagan grew up in Tampico, Ill., wandered to Iowa and fell in as an announcer with the Chicago Cubs before heading to California. There he built one of the more enduring political personas of the 20th century. George W. Bush, Texas twang though he boasts, attended a blue-blood prep school in Massachusetts and summered in Maine, where the waters are chilly and the culture tight-lipped. Dwight Eisenhower was born in Texas, moved to Kansas and came to call Pennsylvania home. Herbert Hoover spent his 20s laboring in the outback of Australia and then China. Teddy Roosevelt strapped on a six-shooter and moved to the Dakotas, the better to fashion an image as the ''cowboy'' president, even though he was as New York as they come.
 Abraham Lincoln, the prototypical Illinoisan, was born in Kentucky and grew up impoverished in Indiana. He moved often as an adult, a loner before fate set him right. 
 Even the log cabin might be seen as a symbol of transience; the stone house speaks to wealth, permanence and belonging, and as often as not comes later. ''Alexis de Tocqueville said Americans start building a house and leave before the roof is built,'' said the historian Eric Foner of Columbia University. 
 Failing to strike out for unknown parts was sometimes taken as lack of gumption. To remain in a New England town square or a sun-baked cotton town in Oklahoma was to risk soul death. ''And I made myself a promise when I was old enough to run, that I'd never stay a single day in the Oklahoma Sun,'' Johnny Cash sang in ''I Never Picked Cotton.''
 None of which is to argue, precisely, that Americans are at peace with the rootless.
 To drift in and out of settled society, to test its mores and laws, unsettles many. Most forbidding are the strangers who come riding out of the dust: Billy the Kid, the Dalton Brothers, Bonnie and Clyde. They are nihilistic and unanchored and, when they venture into society, they often end up killing or dead or both.
 But the footloose wanderer venturing outward also risks much. ''Call me Ishmael'' in ''Moby-Dick'' is one of the great openings in American literature; the seafarer renames himself for the outcast son of Abraham, just in time for a wild and prophetic voyage. ''Some years ago,'' the narrator writes, ''having little or no money in my purse and nothing particular to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of the world.'' Ishmael will be the lone survivor. 
 Cormac McCarthy follows his noble drifters, to terrible ends. ''Easy Rider'' might convince anyone to smoke the joint at home and leave the motorcycle in the garage. Johnny Cash sings ''I Never Picked Cotton'' with a propulsive beat but with his last exhale his protagonist prepares to swing in the gallows.
 It is enough to leave one wistful for the cotton fields.
 ''You might say Americans are conflicted within themselves,'' said Andrew Delbanco, a professor of American studies at Columbia University. ''There is a long and often sentimental tradition of celebrating the small town'' -- Andy Griffith's Mayberry -- ''as the right kind of place to grow up and become morally solid.''
 At the same time, Mr. Delbanco notes, there is ''a no less strong tradition of regarding the small town as airless and imprisoning.''
 In the 1940s and 1950s , such tensions bobbed on the surface of American culture. In Washington, officials worried about how to resettle millions of young men returned from the spectacular violence of World War II. But young Beats like William Burroughs, Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac celebrated the underground and anti-conformist wanderer. 
 The fear of the feral wanderer took cinematic flesh in ''The Wild One'' in 1953. ''What are you rebelling against?'' ''What've you got?'' responds Marlon Brando, leather jacketed, sensual and menacing.
 Perhaps rootlessness is less troubling than we imagine in a national politician; certainly it has staged a bipartisan march in this election. Senator John R. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, is the military brat who attended more than a dozen schools as his father, an admiral, moved about. The candidate, in ''A Charge to Keep,'' describes the effect of such wanderings: ''First made a migrant by the demands of my father's career, in time I became self-moving, a rover by choice. In such a life, some fine things are left behind, and missed. But bad things are left behind as well.''
 Mr. Obama offers a duality in this regard. He might be seen as chasing after roots. As a young man, he sought out precinct captains and ministers and tenants, and convinced the suspicious locals to teach him the ways of Chicago. He is married and never divorced, two children, a resident of the Midwestern city for two decades.
 ''Obama is the least mobile candidate in the race,'' says Alan Wolfe, a professor at Boston College. ''He's almost single-minded about that.''
 There is, too, the sneaking suspicion that describing Mr. Obama, multiracial and multiethnic, as rootless could become a surrogate for something darker. In American history, whites accused Indians of rootlessness before dispossessing them. Jews and Italians, Socialists and anarchists: all stood accused of being ''the other.''
 ''My sense, for what it's worth, is that the charge of 'rootlessness' is suspect, and has an ugly genealogy,'' Mr. Delbanco said.
 And yet Mr. Obama can fan the flames of his elusiveness. He talks of how Americans of many viewpoints see themselves in him. He passes months on the road, and has the restless intellect and detached eye of the author. 
 ''The next U.S. president is going to be Ishmael, whether we like it or not, and whether he knows it or not,'' said Mr. Rampersad, the Stanford professor. ''Fortunately, both McCain and Obama know that they are Ishmael.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HEADIN' OUT: The road is an endless lure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK DELANO/CORBIS BETTMANN) (pg.WK7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JI LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DNA (72%); HISTORY (70%); IMMIGRATION (64%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%) HAWAII, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



606 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Russia, Georgia and the West

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman's column ''What Did We Expect?'' (Aug. 20) is straightforward and right on the mark. International relations are like any human relationship. With given inputs you may expect given outputs. Our actions are not exempt from this reality.
 Balance, clarity, strength, sincerity and concern for everyone's needs are needed to achieve important goals like promoting the growth of democracy. If we lose focus and insight into the effect of our actions, we may not achieve our goals or even really know what our goals are. 
 Rick Loeffler Waukesha, Wis., Aug. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman is right -- after the cold war ended, Russia watched quite enviously as China's economy flourished under autocratic rule with no attendant Western penalties for its lack of democratic reforms. So when Vladimir Putin came along, he opted for a similar model and jettisoned democracy for petro power.
 Simultaneously, President Bush's disastrous foreign policy adventures, coupled with his blind faith in Mr. Putin, only further worsened the situation. We can hardly expect to get respect from wannabe-superpower-again Russia when rogue states like Iran and North Korea do not take our word seriously anymore.
 The next president had better be prepared to walk his talk; otherwise an expanded NATO will soon morph into the New All Talk Organization, and our status as sole superpower will no longer have meaning.
 Jack Nargundkar Germantown, Md., Aug. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Some ideas go mute in the face of events -- say, that appeasing Hitler might work out well.
 I thought another was the claim that welcoming new European democracies into NATO would prove a costly mistake. Events proved otherwise, as this effort encouraged a string of newly independent states to deepen democratic reforms, peacefully settle border disputes and cooperate on trans-Atlantic security challenges.
 Yet Thomas L. Friedman now bids to justify his old objections, arguing that NATO's enlargement is partly to blame for Russia's invasion of Georgia. This suggests that Russia's illegal occupation of its neighbors during the last century should give Moscow a veto over those states' foreign policies now.
 The culpability for Russia's recent internal and external brutality does not lie with free Euro-Atlantic countries that want to pursue peaceful cooperation. It rests squarely with Vladimir Putin and his backers in Russia.
 Jeremy D. Rosner Silver Spring, Md., Aug. 20, 2008
 The writer was special adviser to President Bill Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright on NATO enlargement ratification, 1997-98.
 To the Editor:
 I want to compliment you on the Op-Ed article by Mikhail Gorbachev (''Russia Never Wanted a War,'' Aug. 20) and Thomas L. Friedman's column.
 As one who had a Fulbright to teach American history in Moscow in 2002, I have been sensitized to the Russian point of view. I believe that American foreign policy has been needlessly provocative, and that we are now paying the price for that.
 This is not to say that Vladimir Putin is Mr. Nice Guy, but rather that Russian actions are not taking place in a vacuum.
 Glenna Matthews Laguna Beach, Calif., Aug. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman suggests that if only the Clinton and Bush administrations had heeded his call to consolidate Russian democracy instead of enlarging NATO, Russian soldiers might not today be murdering, raping and looting Georgian civilians. It was not in our power to thwart Putinism, and Russia cannot duck responsibility for its atrocities with a NATO-made-me-do-it excuse.
 Moreover, Mr. Friedman suggests that the ''bone-headed'' Aug. 7 move against the South Ossetian regional capital of Tskhinvali by the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, provoked Russian retaliation.
 That evening, Mr. Saakashvili proposed a cease-fire on national television. Russian-backed South Ossetian separatists responded with heavy artillery against the Georgian villages of Prisi and Tamarasheni. As Georgian forces countered, a Russian armored column entered Georgian territory. 
 Moscow had planned its attack and massed its forces for weeks, ready to establish two land fronts, land amphibious forces, establish a naval blockade and conduct extensive air strikes.
 David J. Smith Director Georgian Security Analysis Center Tbilisi, Georgia, Aug. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 It's rare, but I must disagree with Thomas L. Friedman, whose column faulted the West for expanding NATO and hurting Russia's feelings, thus supposedly contributing to today's Georgia crisis.
 Mr. Friedman assumes that the West should have counted on Russia's evolution to democracy after the fall of the Soviet Union, and that NATO's expansion to Russia's borders created hard feelings and impeded that process. He's right about the hard feelings, but I disagree about the process.
 Why would any student of history ever assume that a country that never had a real democratic experience in its thousand-year history and was weaned on autocracy and imperialism would suddenly turn over a new leaf after a mere change of regime -- not of culture?
 The West bet on the dark side of Russian recidivism by expanding the boundaries of European freedom through NATO while Russia was weak. And events since have given more than ample proof that we were right to do so.
 Marc E. Nicholson Washington, Aug. 20, 2008
 The writer is a retired Foreign Service officer.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KELLY BLAIR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (87%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (76%); HISTORY (74%); WRITERS (73%); VETO (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (75%); BILL CLINTON (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%) MARYLAND, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



607 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA SELECTSS BIDEN, ADDING FOREIGN EXPERTISE TO TICKET

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JEFF ZELENY; John M. Broder contributed reporting from Springfield, Ill., and Carl Hulse from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama introduced Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. as his running mate on Saturday at a boisterous rally in Springfield, Ill., a choice that strengthens the Democratic ticket's credentials on foreign policy and provides Mr. Obama a combative partner as he heads into the fight with Senator John McCain.
 In Mr. Biden, Mr. Obama selected a six-term senator from Delaware best known for his expertise on foreign affairs -- Mr. Biden spent last weekend in Georgia as that nation engaged in a tense confrontation with Russia -- but also for his skills at political combat. Mr. Obama passed over other candidates who might have brought him a state or reinforced the message of change that has been central to his candidacy. 
 At the rally outside the Old State Capitol where Mr. Obama announced his candidacy 19 months ago, he described Mr. Biden as a man ready to be president. And he offered a passionate and politically instructive introduction of Mr. Biden: the portrait of a running mate who filled in what many Democrats have described as the political shortcomings of Mr. Obama. 
 He presented Mr. Biden as the product of a Catholic, blue-collar home in Pennsylvania who had endured personal tragedy in the death of his wife and daughter and his own brush with death, a man who could relate to the culture of the Senate or of working-class voters.
 ''I can tell you that Joe Biden gets it,'' said Mr. Obama, of Illinois. ''He's that unique public servant who is at home in a bar in Cedar Rapids and the corridors of the Capitol; in the V.F.W. hall in Concord, and at the center of an international crisis.
 ''That's because he is still that scrappy kid from Scranton who beat the odds -- the dedicated family man and committed Catholic who knows every conductor on that Amtrak train to Wilmington.''
 The choice of Mr. Biden was perhaps the most critical decision Mr. Obama has made as the Democratic Party's presumptive nominee. It suggested a concern by Mr. Obama's advisers that his recent overseas trip might not have done enough to address persistent voter concerns about his level of experience, especially on national security. 
 Mr. Obama announced his selection when the conflict between Russia and Georgia has provided Republicans an opportunity to reinject foreign policy into an election that has increasingly focused on the economy, and as Mr. McCain, the presumed Republican nominee, has been proving himself a scrappier opponent than many Democrats had assumed he would be.
 And Mr. Obama woke up to a reminder of his opponent's aggressiveness. The McCain campaign released a television advertisement on Saturday morning -- even before the rally began -- using Mr. Biden's own words discrediting Mr. Obama during their primary battles, showing Mr. Biden saying that Mr. Obama is ''not ready'' to be president.
 In their appearance in Springfield, Mr. Biden, after trotting onto stage on a warm and brilliant day, offered a caustic preview of what he would be doing in the next 10 weeks. He offered a lusty attack on Mr. McCain -- after noting that Mr. McCain ''is genuinely a friend of mine; I've known John for 35 years'' -- that left little doubt of the role he would play at a time when many Democrats have worried that Mr. Obama is too restrained a campaigner.
 At the same time, he argued, in what aides said was part of an effort to push back against Mr. McCain's use of his past criticism of Mr. Obama in this campaign, that he had seen Mr. Obama grow in the crucible of a presidential campaign in which ''you're tested and challenged every single day.''
 ''And during those 18 months, I must tell you, frankly,'' Mr. Biden said, ''I have been disappointed in my friend John McCain, who gave in to the right wing of his party and gave in to the Swift boat politics he once so deplored.''
 In a sign to Mr. McCain that friendship only goes so deep in politics, Mr. Biden went so far as to mock the Arizona senator for owning at least seven houses, as he talked about the kitchen-table conversations struggling Americans were having today. ''That's not a worry John McCain has to worry about,'' he said. ''It's a pretty hard experience: He'll have to figure out which of the seven kitchen tables to sit at.''
 Mr. Obama announced his choice of Mr. Biden in text and e-mail messages that began streaming out of his Chicago headquarters at 3 a.m., hours after news of his decision began leaking out. ''Barack has chosen Senator Joe Biden to be our VP nominee,'' read the text message. ''Watch the first Obama-Biden rally live at 3pm ET on www.BarackObama.com. Spread the word!''
 At the end of the process, Mr. Obama was working off a list of four contenders. Besides Mr. Biden, the list included Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana, Gov. Tim Kaine of Virginia, and Gov. Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas. It did not, by every account, include Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, despite an early signal by her supporters that she was very interested in the position, and the belief by many Democrats that she would prove a major electoral asset to Mr. Obama.
 Mrs. Clinton issued a statement on Saturday praising the choice and calling Mr. Biden ''an exceptionally strong, experienced leader and devoted public servant.'' 
 However, it is hardly clear that her supporters -- many of whom have made no secret of their distress at being spurned -- will be as outwardly enthusiastic. One of the main tasks for Mr. Obama's campaign over the next few days, as Democrats meet in Denver for their convention, is trying to avoid a public display of tensions between the two camps and to ensure that her supporters rally around him in the fall.
 The announcement, typical for the Obama campaign, was elaborately choreographed, taking place where Abraham Lincoln once served. The two men exchanged hugs and embraces during the event, but they also made amusing slips.
 As he wrapped up his peroration, Mr. Obama turned and said, ''So let me introduce to you, the next president -- the next vice president of the United States of America -- Joe Biden.'' Mr. Biden offered a new and presumably welcome twist on the frequently mangled name of the presumptive Democratic nominee, as he paid tribute to the ''next president of the United States, Barack America!''
 Mr. Biden, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is familiar with foreign leaders and diplomats around the world. Although he initially voted to authorize the war in Iraq -- Mr. Obama opposed it from the start -- Mr. Biden became a persistent critic of President Bush's policies in Iraq. Mr. Obama's acquaintance with Mr. Biden is in no small part a result of the fact that the two serve together on that committee, aides said. 
 Mr. Biden, who sought the Democratic presidential nomination himself this year before pulling out after performing poorly in the first contest, in Iowa, has shown himself to be a tough political brawler, a characteristic that many Democrats say Mr. Obama has not displayed against Mr. McCain. That is something that presidential candidates typically look for in a running mate.
 Mr. Biden seems likely to fill in other gaps in Mr. Obama's political appeal that became increasingly clear during the primary season and going into the fall. He is a Roman Catholic, as Mr. Obama noted twice in his introduction, and could appeal to a group with which Mr. Obama had trouble during the Democratic primaries. He has a blue-collar background, potentially giving him appeal among working-class voters, another bloc in which Mr. Obama ran poorly in the primaries. And he was born in Pennsylvania, a battleground state that could be vital to both parties. 
 At 65, Mr. Biden adds a few years and gray hair to a ticket that otherwise might seem a bit young (Mr. Obama is 47). He is, as Mr. Obama's advisers were quick to assert, someone prepared to take over as president.
 He is also something of a fixture in Washington, and he would bring to the campaign -- and the White House -- a familiarity with the way the city and Congress work that Mr. Obama cannot match after his relatively short stint in the Senate. Sensitive to portrayals of Mr. Biden as a creature of Washington who undercuts Mr. Obama's claims to represent change, aides to Mr. Obama emphasized that Mr. Biden commutes home by train each evening to Wilmington, Del., where he has continued to live throughout his Senate career.
 By the time the announcement was made, it was anything but a surprise, and Republicans were ready, armed with what Democrats assumed was a mountain of material mined from Mr. Biden's 36 years in the Senate and his presidential campaign. 
 By dawn, the McCain campaign had produced the television advertisement, replayed regularly on news programs, that reprised critical statements Mr. Biden made about Mr. Obama during the campaign. ''I think he can be ready, but right now, I don't believe he is,'' Mr. Biden said in August 2007. ''The presidency is not something that lends itself to on-the-job training.''
 For good measure, it included a quotation from Mr. Biden talking about Mr. McCain on ''The Daily Show'' in 2005: ''I would be honored to run with or against John McCain, because I think the country would be better off.''
 The selection was disclosed as Mr. Obama moves into a critical part of his campaign, preparing for the party's four-day convention. From Springfield, Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden went their different ways. Mr. Obama is going to begin a tour of swing states that will bring him into Denver on Wednesday, while Mr. Biden is to head straight to Denver, where, aides said, he will spend time meeting Obama delegates, paying particular attention to helping soothe any tensions with Mrs. Clinton's supporters there. 
 Mr. Biden is hardly an entirely safe choice. He was forced to apologize to Mr. Obama almost the moment he entered the race for president after he was quoted as describing him as ''the first mainstream African-American who is articulate and bright and clean and a nice-looking guy,'' a remark that drew criticism for being racially insensitive. While campaigning in New Hampshire, Mr. Biden said that ''you cannot go to a 7-Eleven or a Dunkin' Donuts unless you have a slight Indian accent.''
 Republicans made clear that they intended to keep a close eye on Mr. Biden, looking to exploit any more moments like those. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senators Barack Obama and Joseph R. Biden Jr. at a rally on Saturday in Springfield, Ill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY M. SPENCER GREEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A1)
 Barack and Michelle Obama, with Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his wife, Jill, in Springfield, Ill., on Saturday. ''I can tell you that Joe Biden gets it,'' Mr. Obama said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); TRAINS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOE BIDEN (94%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); RICK PERRY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (90%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (69%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



608 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 5004 words

HEADLINE: In his second life as tennis's premier commentator, he is: A] IN CONTROL; B] WORKED UP; C] MELLOWER; D] STRESSED; E] ALL OF THE ABOVE.

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS DAWIDOFF. 
Nicholas Dawidoff is the author of four books, most recently ''The Crowd Sounds Happy: A Story of Love, Madness and Baseball.''

 BODY:
ON A LATE MORNING IN EARLY JUNE, John McEnroe was back in New York from the French Open in Paris, where, in the dramatically hushed tones favored by tennis broadcasters, he told his American television audience that the No. 2 player in the world, Rafael Nadal, had first ''befuddled'' and then become a ''nightmare'' for No. 1 Roger Federer in Nadal's straight-sets victory. Now, sitting in the Midtown Manhattan conference room of his new accountant, McEnroe was explaining in an animated way why talking about tennis is easier for him than playing was in the early 1980s, when he was at the top of his game, an artist with a wooden racket. ''I was always fighting the establishment, trying to run through brick walls,'' he said. ''I don't have the angst I had.'' As he spoke, you almost believed him, almost wanted to congratulate him for transforming himself from the world's most notoriously -- in a favorite McEnroe locution -- unglued athlete, for putting aside his near-obsessive belief that everyone -- especially journalists -- was persecuting him, for enduring the slings and syringes of his serially self-destructing ex-wife Tatum O'Neal, to confront turning 50 as an affably adjusted icon with a long and happy second marriage, six kids, a rock band of boyhood friends with whom he can play Led Zeppelin covers on weekends and a celebrated press badge around his neck. 
 
 But then there were all the other things he'd been saying, sitting there wire-fox-lean and restless, his whole body seeming to dilate with pulses of nervous energy, the old combustive spew of light brown curls now a close, off-white cloud cover, the voice still Queensy after all these years, his blue Cons on and off the long, polished table as certified-looking men in shapeless suits strode back and forth in the hallway outside. (McEnroe, who, say what you will, has always been all about accountability, says that only after his former numbers men of 10 years ''dropped the ball'' several times did he let them go.) ''I am,'' he'd just confessed, ''someone who gets pretty worked up.'' It was that way in Paris, where he was ''sweaty and stressed,'' and also ''melancholy.'' For McEnroe, big tennis tournaments have the feel of class reunions, and day after French day passed with McEnroe thinking, God, I haven't seen my friends. I wanted to get together with the boys. I was wondering, Are they really my friends? I was bummed out.'' 
 Then he ran into Bjorn Borg, his great rival and the only player of stature with whom ''I never had a problem on or off the court,'' and he thought afterward, ''I should do more with Bjorn!'' He also encountered another contemporary, the Frenchman Yannick Noah, which left McEnroe feeling complicated. Noah was a vastly inferior player to McEnroe, but McEnroe was choosing to regard tennis as his Pyrrhic victory in their long game of life because Noah has sired more successful athletic offspring -- his firstborn, Joakim, is a Chicago Bulls power forward; no McEnroe child has played more than an indifferent year of college tennis -- and Noah is a European pop star. ''His son's in the N.B.A.!'' McEnroe exclaimed. ''I thought, That's amazing! Yannick is selling millions of records! I thought, Jeez! Part of me is happy for him, part of me wonders, Why am I such a bad singer?! Then I thought, It's great to see him! I go through all these emotions. I was happy for two days, and then I was worrying again about my wife, who came over, and I had to take her to the Eiffel Tower. I thought, I'm not a tourist!'' But in the end, McEnroe arrived at a happy perspective both because his wife, the singer Patty Smyth, is a deft rallying partner for her husband of 11 years when he becomes, as she says, ''a negatron,'' and because, McEnroe noticed, ''it's quite a view up there.''
 After Paris, McEnroe's next professional vantage was the Wimbledon broadcast booth, a tiny scuba mask of a room set just below the player's family box and nestled so close to the base line at Centre Court at the All England Lawn Tennis Club that the players float by the window like morays and barracuda. McEnroe, however, may be the biggest fish. He is such a charismatic commentator that more than any player he remains the face of tennis. It's McEnroe who is still making the lush commercials, appearing on the late-night talk shows and wearing pegged suits to the swank benefits. ''Johnny Mac is almost bigger than his sport,'' says Christopher Russo, the tennis-crazed former co-host of the ''Mike and the Mad Dog'' sports-radio talk show. ''The average fan watches because Mac's involved.''
 For people who remember the McEnroe of the early 1980s, this is a new turn on an old phrase. As a player, McEnroe was mesmerizing for the contrast between the gorgeous, uplifting way he played tennis and the lower kind of man he seemed to be, a carping, bullying, tactless, moody, bitter, confused, clueless, selfish jerk -- these only a few of the ways Sports Illustrated described him. Few athletes have been loathed like McEnroe -- especially by reporters. Now, however, there is cheering for him in the press box. Mike Greenberg, of ESPN's sports-radio talk show ''Mike and Mike,'' says, ''Of all the analysts working in any sport, he's as good as any of them.'' Jeff Van Gundy, who analyzed the N.B.A. finals for ABC, says McEnroe is ''outstanding,'' praising him because he is ''honest, direct . . . and has compassion.'' The Fox baseball commentator Tim McCarver likes that ''he's frank to the point where you kind of look at the television and say, 'Did he just say that?!' '' Another baseball analyst, ESPN's Joe Morgan, is admiring enough of McEnroe and his game that he has been called ''McMorgan.'' Tennis, says Morgan, ''is about the will, and when Mac does a match, I learn who has the will.'' 
 McEnroe works as a commentator only six to eight prime weeks a year, an annual verbal migration from Paris to London to New York spent analyzing the tennis ''majors'' -- the fourth is the Australian Open in January -- part of a broadcast team that usually features smooth-as-cream play-by-play man Ted Robinson and Mary Carillo, who grew up with McEnroe in Douglaston, Queens, and delights in giving her old boy-next-door the strawberry. McEnroe has been broadcasting for 16 years, and his thinking in restricting his workload amounts to an unwillingness ''to take it that seriously.'' He says he is apprehensive about how susceptible he is to both ''stress'' and to ''regret.'' ''Look what happened to poor Tim Russert,'' he told me in London. ''They suck you in, make you feel you have to do more and more, and maybe it was just a fluke with him, but I saw the guy do the North Carolina primary, the 'Today' show, Imus, MSNBC, and I am wary of that kind of commitment. If you're good, you try so hard, like Russert, and the guy drops dead at 58.'' There is also McEnroe's feeling that his is a vocation with creative limitations: ''How many times can you say, 'That guy hit a good forehand'?!''
 It's just this kind of quirky candor that is appreciated by his audience. As a broadcaster, McEnroe is far from lyrical. He operates in plain-spoken language that features banal intensifiers like ''outstanding'' and ''phenomenal,'' and whenever he's between a rock and a hard place, he reaches for a cliche. The uninspired phrases have made some media critics dubious -- Slate's Mike Steinberger called him ''an insufferable blowhard'' -- but McEnroe's strengths are like those of Theodore Dreiser, who wrote wooden sentences but understood characters, emotion and story line. McEnroe's best character is, of course, McEnroe, and much of the fun for listeners is analyzing the analyst. On the air, as in life, he remains a beguiling combination of the confessional and the elusive, an enigma even to his wife, who says that her husband is ''really complicated and really simple. He's such an interesting puzzle for me to work on.'' McEnroe has an ability to make powerful, provocative remarks, (''Of all the presidents I ever met, the least impressive was Mugabe'') and then, like a water bug, skim onto the next shimmering destination; he's enticing, yet slippery. In the stream-of-consciousness level of dialogue necessitated by broadcasting live television, this is a very effective way to be. That McEnroe doesn't seem to hold anything back, sounding prickly if he's feeling prickly, drolly bringing up the lingering pain of his old losses, expressing an empathy for every kind of competitor except those who fail to at all times ''dig deep,'' are what make him a lot more interesting than the Andy Roddicks and James Blakes of the tennis world. McEnroe says his ''vow'' as a broadcaster is ''giving people an idea of what it's like to be out there.'' Somehow, all these years later, he remains a competitor in the booth.
 The reverse could have been said about McEnroe the player, that he was a broadcaster on the court. The tantrums and the boorish epithets he lobbed at fans, opponents and, especially, umpires sometimes obscured not only the innovative subtleties of his game but also the way his play suggested a sophisticated moment-to-moment processing of whom he was up against. That was never truer than at Wimbledon. McEnroe became famous there in 1977, reaching the semifinals as a brazen teenaged qualifier with pouty cheeks and a terry-cloth headband. Three years later he and Borg staged a championship that has become one of those seminal public events about which people can say exactly where they were when they saw it. (Nelson Mandela told McEnroe he listened in prison on Robin Island.) McEnroe served and volleyed as Borg stood stoic at the base line contesting points so complex and involved they felt like short stories. The best moments came at the end, a 34-point fourth set tiebreaker, won by McEnroe, followed by a 8-6 fifth-set loss so thrillingly close that Borg's fifth consecutive Wimbledon victory spoke to the brutal, bright-size-life way that singles tennis has of revealing a man and displaying what he is made of. It is a martial game: eliminate or be eliminated.
 Something about the vulnerability McEnroe exposed in Borg seemed to carry over to the next year, when they met again and this time McEnroe prevailed, replacing Borg as No. 1. Afterward, with a flourish of insight, McEnroe described how he ended Borg's streak, detailing the various tells that revealed Borg's relative levels of fatigue; McEnroe's own consternating impulse to let up himself when Borg began to tire; and Borg's curious self-doubt during tiebreakers, a sudden absence of confidence with his serve that left him as soon as a new set began. What McEnroe couldn't know then was that such pure gladiatorial theater would not soon be repeated. 
 It's distressing to McEnroe that when he looks out at tennis today he sees a game in trouble. Tennis has been in decline for years, a pale, pedigreed antique in an America that has embraced golf, reimagining the back nine as the leisure station of the everyman. McEnroe's famous temper rises as he describes golf as a kind of athletic grifter preying upon society's most ''sedentary and lazy'' impulses at the cost of something higher. The avatar of golf's rise has, of course, been Tiger Woods, whose virtuoso skills and what McEnroe calls ''the magnetic aura you feel around him'' have allowed Woods to become the sporting symbol for a time when tennis has been devoid of such stirring on-court personality until perhaps now. Embedded in McEnroe's enthusiasm for Roger Federer's rivalry with Rafael Nadal is his desire to defer to them for the good of a sport about which, in his youth, he created a histrionic public drama of ambivalence, but now, as an older man, he says he has finally come to cherish.
 In his 20s, McEnroe's relationship to tennis had similarities to the way many immature men feel about love -- he was awhirl with conflicted emotions and felt too unresolved about himself to commit his feelings. McEnroe says that back then he felt besieged and alienated. ''No other athlete in any sport has ever had to go through what I have to,'' he lamented in 1986, the year he married O'Neal. Yet he was, in fact, very much like the baseball player Ted Williams, the so-called greatest ''natural hitter'' the sport ever saw and a surly, high-strung figure inflamed with a sense of the world's injustice, which led to crude displays of spitting, screaming, bat-throwing and primal dances of profane rage. Why was McEnroe ticked? ''Bad calls; not getting what I wanted; being a perfectionist; wanting everything just right; people who had no idea what they were clapping for; wanting to change the system. Tennis was a white, upper-class sport, and I wanted it to be treated like other sports were.'' All this disgust fed the crass behavior that was repellent to many people's ideas of proper sportsmanship. McEnroe, for his part, always made clear his contempt for journalists and then seemed incredulous when they skewered him. He can still catalog the hurts. Even today, as a journalist himself, McEnroe seems to make it a point of pride to be peevish with reporters; there is a purity to his recalcitrance. 
 Yet, again like Williams, who looked up so frequently at the press box he failed to notice that the grandstand adored him, the obvious emotional integrity of a gifted man who experienced life as such struggle drew many fans to McEnroe. For a lot of younger people, especially, the McEnroe out there raging and smashing rackets could express all the displeasure at bad things in the world that they were too inhibited to disclose -- a disaffection that was the sporting analogue to the seething lyrics and splintered guitars of the new-wave English rockers like Elvis Costello and the Clash. ''I was lonely,'' he says, ''because it's hard to be given credit for having mixed feelings about something your friends would think it was inexplicable not to feel it was all amazing. In my old weird way, my ex-wife made sense. She'd been through a lot, and I thought she'd understand what I was going through. Obviously you shouldn't get together for that reason.'' He and O'Neal separated in 1992. Five years later, McEnroe was remarried, to Smyth, a fellow New Yorker who sang ''Goodbye to You'' as lead singer of the rock band Scandal. ''Tennis players shouldn't get married,'' she says. ''It hurts your game. When you're done you can get married. The thing with John, the world opened up to him from tennis.'' Perhaps it's no surprise that, his time on the tennis tour behind him, the two careers McEnroe pursued were rock 'n' roll and journalism, and the latter profession is the one that took. ''I've done everything I said I'd never do,'' he admits.
 It turned out that the young McEnroe who seemed heedlessly capable of acting out upon every jagged impulse was also hiding something. ''He definitely cares what people think,'' Smyth says. ''He definitely gets wounded. He just doesn't ever let what people think dictate what he does.'' Given all this, for McEnroe a gratifying aspect of being a commentator is that ''it allows another side of my personality to come through that's maybe not as serious about myself as I seemed when I was playing.'' He's still mercurial, a man whose moods -- one moment he's warm, 10 minutes later he's coldly dismissive -- blow in and out like the London weather, but there's also a more accessible self-reflection. ''Look at Federer,'' McEnroe says. ''He just seems to love it more than I did. I wasn't able to appreciate loving the game as much as I should have.'' 
 One reason McEnroe may, as he says, feel less anxiety and dismay out in the world is that his sources of anxiety and dismay are now external. It's no longer about him; it's about tennis. Rehabilitating what he refers to as ''our game'' has become a mission to him. What McEnroe observes when he looks at Federer and Nadal are two players both supremely talented as athletes and as people. At times McEnroe can seem disarmed by their ability to mesh competitive passion with unwavering personal dignity: Federer is so elegant and gracious; Nadal, so earnestly humble. Federer, who is 27, is the winner of 12 tennis majors and was the top-ranked player in tennis from early 2004 until this month, dominating the game for a record number of consecutive weeks. Many experts, including McEnroe, have called him the best hard-surface player in history. But France holds its tennis trials on the courts of clay preferred by Nadal, a fleet and indefatigable 22-year-old Spaniard whose acclaimed posterior and biceps are flaunted by his trademark piratas Capri pants and sleeveless jersey as he runs the base line like a strong safety. Nadal's June victory was his fourth consecutive French Open title. To that point he seemed to be a specialist, a lesser man once his feet left clay. 
 What stirred McEnroe about Paris was the way he said the Basel-born Federer, his classic strokes usually relentless as Swiss time, was left ''just shaking his head,'' utterly deprived of his self-possession. He also knew that while Federer defeated Nadal last year on the brisk grass at Wimbledon, Nadal pushed him hard before falling in five sets. McEnroe's belief as a broadcaster is that ''when it's a great match you pull back'' and say less, and only as that competition ended did the full McEnroe exuberance emerge as he pronounced it ''one of the all-time matches that I've seen here.'' In New York, in June, as McEnroe thought ahead to Wimbledon and the U.S. Open, which begins Aug. 25, he was telling everyone who would listen that he sensed familiar epic possibilities for the kinetic pair. As for Federer, McEnroe detected a ravening scent of peril in the air.
 At Wimbledon McEnroe was driven around London in a black Chrysler 300C to a procession of meet-and-greets and speaking engagements where ''they throw me a little money''; to dinners with pals like Boris Becker, whose mother made them Wiener schnitzel; to workouts at the gym that have made him leaner than he was as a player; to sessions of smacking tennis balls with his old doubles partner Peter Fleming ''I hit regularly so I don't lose sight of how difficult it is''; to a rapturous old-home-week encounter with Michael Stich, who proposed teaming up next year in the over-35 Wimbledon doubles bracket everyone still wants to play doubles with McEnroe, such a legendary partner that Fleming once defined the best doubles team of all time as ''McEnroe and anyone else.'' All the while, McEnroe was eating handfuls of Gummy Bears and stretching his aching back ''my body's falling apart'' and of course logging 10 hours a day talking about tennis for NBC, the BBC and all the other impromptu press-room microphones extended toward him by hands from across the world, who always grab as big a bite of Mac as they can get. Through each day he was on edge, twitchy, grudgingly accommodating and impatient to be onto something else, as long as it wasn't downtime. ''I've got to do something,'' he said while vibrating in and out of a greenroom easy chair on Wimbledon's second Thursday. ''It seems unacceptable to be doing nothing.''
 McEnroe is also the first to admit that ''I'm not mellow, I'm mellower,'' which means, says his wife, ''he's an affectionate guy, a happy guy and man can he get freaking angry.'' This is to say that McEnroe's encounters with meter maids and state troopers take more out of him than they do most people. ''He never goes off on meter maids,'' Smyth says. ''He just ices them. It's the worst. You don't want that wind blowing your way.'' When can't he hold back? ''Traffic jams,'' she says thinly. 
 One London evening, with Federer and Nadal progressing steadily through their brackets, McEnroe was slumped in the 300C, red-eyed and quiet as the car sped beside the moonlit Thames, past the garish hot pinks and greens of the Millennium Wheel to Room by the River, an enormous white marquee. Inside, Londoners in long gowns and dark suits were watching an after-dinner film-screen replay of the 1980 McEnroe-Borg tiebreaker as they awaited what they really paid 200 pounds each to see McEnroe and Borg onstage together talking about tennis. McEnroe says he avoids footage of the fabled 1980 match because memory is so fragile, so easily stripped or altered, and film is such a powerful appropriator of private experience. ''I never watch it,'' he said. ''You always envision something bigger and better. The winners we hit! Then you see all the mistakes. It felt magical. I wanted it to stay magical.''
 But the crowd was transfixed, and then on their feet as Borg, tanned like a skier, and McEnroe, his complexion skim-milky, embraced in front of them. McEnroe, suddenly aglow and looking boyish, thanked the projectionist for not showing the fifth set so people could think ''I won that match!'' before mocking the slurs bellowed out by a drunk trying to incite him to lose his glue -- ''at least say, 'You cannot be serious!' '' Then everything devolved into ''a lovefest,'' said McEnroe, who gushed lengthily about what a delightful person Borg was in contrast to, say, Jimmy Connors, who ''despite the fact that he was a complete [expletive] I had complete respect for because no matter how hard I'm trying, he's trying harder.'' And how fab a fellow was Borg in contrast to the street-fighting Mac? On McEnroe's first trip to Ireland in his early 20s, he finally met his great-aunt Molly, who greeted him with, ''I always liked Bjorn Borg better than you.'' Looking at Borg, he inquired, ''Ever feel like throwing your racket and losing your mind?'' and Borg replied, ''Only once in my life.'' Something about lousy calls and an opponent named McEnroe. An audience member asked McEnroe how O'Neal was doing since her recent arrest in New York for buying crack cocaine. ''I'm not exactly sure,'' he replied. Though O'Neal has been in drug rehab many times and through the years has accused him of all manner of marital sins, Smyth says McEnroe never speaks harshly of his ex. Now he added, ''Given that she's the mother of three of my children, I want her to be doing well.'' 
 Back in the car McEnroe was chipper. He confessed of his youthful temper: ''I could have controlled it better. My parents always thought so. On some level I didn't control it because I didn't want to. But I took economics at Stanford, and it's the law of diminishing returns. I did feel out of control, and I didn't like it. Maybe what I like so much about what I do now is that I'm in control.'' Then he was talking about the match with Borg again, making a tennis rivalry sound like a very public private relationship in which defeats are inseparable from victories, part of an accumulating intimacy with your opponent.
 Twelve hours later, there was McEnroe on the base line of a practice court confronting tennis balls zooming at him in parboiled parabolas of spin. Nadal had invited McEnroe to warm him up for his semifinal match with Rainer Schuttler. It's not every former competitor who can step out of the booth to back-and-forth it with the current champions -- imagine today's McCarver catching Mariano Rivera's cut fastball or Joe Morgan trying to hit it, but McEnroe, living the sportsman's immortal daydream, has never officially retired. He still wins senior tour tournaments and is a member of the World Team Tennis New York Sportimes, where his old self returns just frequently enough that his younger brother Patrick, also a retired professional tennis player and now a fine broadcaster for ESPN, calls the little tempests ''a shtick.'' But this session with Nadal was special. Nadal is 27 years younger, with arms the size of McEnroe's calves, and as McEnroe would say, ''He plays harder in practice than most guys do in a match.'' Once they began points, Nadal planted English peas from corner to corner with such ballistic pace you worried about the aging southpaw across the net. ''He can't hit with this kid,'' yelled a straw-hatted woman from the packed gallery. McEnroe himself played along, shaking his head as he called out, ''What am I supposed to do?!'' But as McEnroe said later, ''I can still play well enough to give them what they need,'' for the cunning strokes are intact, if not the anaerobic bursts of movement. Soon, with the signature cantilevered serve -- he goes down then up, like a pump-jack in an oil field -- the near-absence of backswing and the flickering hands at net, he found his flow, creating rallies with each shot different from the next, winning points, one with a volley feather-dusted so perfectly that Nadal cracked up as the woman's husband boomed, ''Still got it mate!'' After close to an hour, Nadal had had enough, but McEnroe called, ''One more!'' and Nadal obliged, after which McEnroe walked toward the net, saying, ''Don't want to tire you out!'' 
 On Sunday, when Federer again faced Nadal, McEnroe began his morning at a corporate brunch organized by the 1972 Wimbledon champion Stan Smith, whom McEnroe owes for life because the first girl he kissed was Smith's wife's youngest sister. In a backyard among geraniums and clinking Champagne glasses, McEnroe diagnosed Federer's ''stubbornness,'' Nadal's ''heavy ball'' and his own children's ''affluenza.'' Then, back at Wimbledon, in the booth alongside Robinson, he looked out at many purple-and-green-striped umbrellas. It rained. It stopped. Federer came out ''tight ... he's human,'' McEnroe said, amid loosing comments like ''that was pretty much butchered by Federer.'' Nadal won two sets. It rained again for more than an hour, leaving McEnroe and Robinson to pass the time off air trading old Marv Albert lines from his days broadcasting for the Rangers and the Knicks. McEnroe: ''Kick save and a beauty by Giacomin!'' Robinson: ''DeBusschere to Bradley to Reed and one!''
 The rain stopped. McEnroe described confidence regained as Federer won a close third set in a tiebreaker. Federer won the fourth set in another tiebreaker, a taut, vivid display in which Federer saved two match points. A much-anticipated event was transcending expectations. McEnroe said less and less, letting the event take over. Four games into the climaxing fifth set, the rains came again, a situation McEnroe called ''unbelievably sad.'' In the booth, karaoke and babies were discussed until play resumed. This was the longest Wimbledon final in history, and by now Robinson and McEnroe had been in the tiny room for more than seven hours. It smelled bad. McEnroe was eating boiled potatoes with his hands. Back and forth the play went, Federer and Nadal trading games, trading impossible returns, the sky darkening into a lavender evening wash, McEnroe noting that neither man looked remotely tired, until at last Federer began to make crucial mistakes and suddenly Nadal was serving with match point at 8-7. McEnroe kept silent. Was he subdued at this exhilarating moment? Later he would say that a small part of him was missing his children. Federer slapped an easy forehand into the net. Nadal had won. He sprinted into the stands, climbed on top of the booth, his knees brushing the window in front of McEnroe's face as the new champion sought out his family. McEnroe exhaled. ''Gotta be the greatest match we've ever ... seen,'' he said.
 Moments later he interviewed both teary-eyed players, repeating his ''greatest ever'' evaluation, issuing hugs, looking as overwhelmed as they did and completely exhausted. ''If this doesn't spark interest in our sport, I don't know what will,'' he told his audience. Then McEnroe learned that back in New York, NBC wanted him to stay longer so the network could film 90 seconds of match summary from him and Robinson for prime time. ''You've got to be joking,'' McEnroe said, and rage rippled through him like a fallen wire. He raised his middle finger to the messenger and disappeared. ''That's what's so great about him, he gets so emotional,'' Robinson whispered gamely. It was reported that ''John's disappeared,'' and all available NBC runners were dispatched to find him. According to Patrick McEnroe, who spent childhood evenings in the garage learning to ignore the paddles John smashed against the wall when Patrick beat him at Ping-Pong: ''Part of him enjoys chaos. He likes things to be a little unsettled. Wreaking havoc, what unsettles others, he can handle.'' Eventually McEnroe returned, did a flawless minute and a half and departed. 
 The black 300C was soon caught in a traffic jam. Did McEnroe truly think it was the greatest tennis match ever played? Better even than his own with Borg? ''There's an emotional similarity,'' he said. He was obviously still in the grip of tremendous feeling. In the coming weeks he would repeat the claim over and over. Here in the car, seated beside someone who saw both matches and did not agree with him, there was the sense that McEnroe didn't think so, either, but was never going to admit it, that he was forfeiting his legacy for the good of tennis. Suddenly McEnroe was lamenting the traffic. To his driver he suggested tightly, ''Charlie, you ever make that right up there?'' Charlie knew a back route. Soon only a single blue car blocked the 300C's way. McEnroe's face contorted. ''What is this idiot doing?'' he screamed at the blue car. He began fulminating about having been asked for ''more! more! more!'' until suddenly the window was rolling down and he was screaming at the blue car: ''You ever driven before, mate? Jesus-God-Almighty!'' The window went back up. ''This is discouraging,'' he said. And then it all passed. He smiled, and imitating Howard Cosell, he said, ''This is where McEnroe's patience is starting to wear thin!'' Then, in his own voice, he said: ''I was getting there. Had to regroup!'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 24 about John McEnroe misspelled the location of the prison where Nelson Mandela was jailed when he listened to the 1980 Wimbledon final, between McEnroe and Bjorn Borg. It is Robben Island, not Robin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN STEPHENS) (pg.MM23)
 THE EPIC: WIMBLEDON, 1980: McEnroe during his five-set thriller with Bjorn Borg. It seemed endless, or at least most tennis fans probably wished it had been. Nelson Mandela listened in prison. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WALTER IOOSS JR./SPORTS ILLUSTRATED/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.MM25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); SPORTS FANS (72%); TOURNAMENTS (69%)

PERSON: RAFAEL NADAL (73%); ROGER FEDERER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



609 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 8130 words

HEADLINE: A Free-Market-Loving, Big-Spending, Fiscally Conservative Wealth Redistributionist

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is an economics columnist for The Times and a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
I. A Broken Economy
 As Barack Obama prepares to accept the Democratic nomination this week, it is clear that the economic policies of the next president are going to be hugely important. Ever since Wall Street bankers were called back from their vacations last summer to deal with the convulsions in the mortgage market, the economy has been lurching from one crisis to the next. The International Monetary Fund has described the situation as ''the largest financial shock since the Great Depression.'' The details are too technical for most of us to understand. (They're too technical for many bankers to understand, which is part of the problem.) But the root cause is simple enough. In some fundamental ways, the American economy has stopped working. 
 The fact that the economy grows -- that it produces more goods and services one year than it did in the previous one -- no longer ensures that most families will benefit from its growth. For the first time on record, an economic expansion seems to have ended without family income having risen substantially. Most families are still making less, after accounting for inflation, than they were in 2000. For these workers, roughly the bottom 60 percent of the income ladder, economic growth has become a theoretical concept rather than the wellspring of better medical care, a new car, a nicer house -- a better life than their parents had. 
 Americans have still been buying such things, but they have been doing so with debt. A big chunk of that debt will never be repaid, which is the most basic explanation for the financial crisis. Even after the crisis has passed, the larger problem of income stagnation will remain. It's hardly the economy's only serious problem either. There is also the slow unraveling of the employer-based health-insurance system and the fact that, come 2011, the baby boomers will start to turn 65, setting off an enormous rise in the government's Medicare and Social Security obligations.
 Most of these problems aren't immediate, which helps explain why they have gone unaddressed for so long. And the United States remains a fabulously prosperous country, relative to almost any other country, at any point in history. Yet Americans seem to realize that something has gone wrong. In recent polls, about 80 percent of respondents say the economy is in bad shape, and almost 70 percent say it's going to get worse. Together, these answers make for the most downbeat assessment since at least the early 1980s, and underscore that the next president will be inheriting a set of domestic problems as serious as any the country has faced in a long time. 
 John McCain's economic vision, as he has laid it out during the campaign, amounts to a slightly altered version of Republican orthodoxy, with tax cuts at the core. Obama, on the other hand, has more-detailed proposals but a less obvious ideology. 
 Well before this point on the presidential calendar, it's usually clear where a candidate fits within the political spectrum of his party. With Obama, there is vast disagreement about just how liberal he is, especially on the economy. My favorite example came in mid-June, shortly after Obama named Jason Furman, a protege of Robert Rubin, the centrist former Treasury secretary, as his lead economic adviser. Labor leaders recoiled, and John Sweeney, the head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., worried aloud about ''corporate influence on the Democratic Party.'' Then, the following week, Kimberley Strassel, a member of The Wall Street Journal editorial board, wrote a column titled, ''Farewell, New Democrats,'' concluding that Obama's economic policies amounted to the end of Clintonian centrism and a reversion to old liberal ways.
 Some of the confusion stems from Obama's own strategy of presenting himself as a postpartisan figure. A few weeks ago, I joined him on a flight from Orlando to Chicago and began our conversation by asking about his economic approach. He started to answer, but then interrupted himself. ''My core economic theory is pragmatism,'' he said, ''figuring out what works.'' 
 This, of course, is not the whole story. Invoking pragmatism doesn't help the average voter much; ideology, though it often gets a bad name, matters, because it offers insight into how a candidate might actually behave as president. I have spent much of this year trying to get a handle on what is sometimes called Obamanomics and have come away thinking that Obama does have an economic ideology. It's just not a completely familiar one. Depending on how you look at it, he is both more left-wing and more right-wing than many people realize.
 II. A New Democratic Consensus, of Sorts
 To understand where Obama stands, you first have to know that, for 15 years, Democratic Party economics have been defined by a struggle that took place during the start of the Clinton administration. It was the battle of the Bobs. On one side was Clinton's labor secretary and longtime friend, Bob Reich, who argued that the government should invest in roads, bridges, worker training and the like to stimulate the economy and help the middle class. On the other side was Bob Rubin, a former Goldman Sachs executive turned White House aide, who favored reducing the deficit to soothe the bond market, bring down interest rates and get the economy moving again. Clinton cast his lot with Rubin, and to this day the first question about any Democrat's economic outlook is often where his heart lies, with Reich or Rubin, the left or the center, the government or the market.
 Obama has obviously studied this debate, and early on during the flight to Chicago, he told me a story about Reich and Rubin. The previous week, Obama convened a discussion with a high-powered group of economists and chief executives. He was sitting at a conference table, with Rubin two seats to his left and Reich across from him. ''One of the points I raised,'' Obama told me, ''is if you just use you, Bob, and you, Bob, as caricatures, the truth is, both of you acknowledge the world is more complicated.'' By this, Obama didn't simply mean that their views were more nuanced than many outsiders understood. He meant that both have come to acknowledge that the other man is, in part, correct. The two now occupy more similar ideological places than they did in 1993. The battle of the Bobs may not be completely over, but it has certainly been suspended. 
 Among the policy experts and economists who make up the Democratic government-in-waiting, there is now something of a consensus. They agree that deficit reduction did an enormous amount of good. It helped usher in the 1990s boom and the only period of strong, broad-based income growth in a generation. But that boom also depended on a technology bubble and historically low oil prices. In the current decade, the economy has continued to grow at a decent pace, yet most families have seen little benefit. Instead, the benefits have flowed mostly to a small slice of workers at the very top of the income distribution. As Rubin told me, comparing the current moment with 1993, ''The distributional issues are obviously more serious now.'' From today's vantage point, inequality looks likes a bigger problem than economic growth; fiscal discipline seems necessary but not sufficient. 
 In practical terms, the new consensus means that the policies of an Obama administration would differ from those of the Clinton administration, but not primarily because of differences between the two men. ''The economy has changed in the last 15 years, and our understanding of economic policy has changed as well,'' Furman says. ''And that means that what was appropriate in 1993 is no longer appropriate.'' Obama's agenda starts not with raising taxes to reduce the deficit, as Clinton's ended up doing, but with changing the tax code so that families making more than $250,000 a year pay more taxes and nearly everyone else pays less. That would begin to address inequality. Then there would be Reich-like investments in alternative energy, physical infrastructure and such, meant both to create middle-class jobs and to address long-term problems like global warming. 
 All of this raises the question of what will happen to the deficit. Obama's aides optimistically insist he will reduce it, thanks to his tax increases on the affluent and his plan to wind down the Iraq war. Relative to McCain, whose promised spending cuts are extremely vague, Obama does indeed look like a fiscal conservative. But the larger point is that the immediate deficit isn't as big as it was in 1992. Then, it was equal to 4.7 percent of gross domestic product. Right now it's about 2.5 percent.
 During our conversation, Obama made it clear that he considered the deficit to be only one of the long-term problems requiring immediate attention, and he sounded more worried about the others, like global warming, health care and the economic hangover that could follow the housing bust. Tellingly, he said that while he admired what Clinton did, he might have been more open to Reich's argument -- even in 1993. ''I still would have probably made a slightly different choice than Clinton did,'' Obama said. ''I probably wouldn't have been as obsessed with deficit reduction.''
 The new Democratic consensus isn't complete, obviously. Labor unions, in particular, would prefer more trade barriers than many other Democrats. During the primaries Obama nodded, and at times pandered, in this direction. Since then, he has disavowed that rhetoric, to almost no one's surprise. Yet his zig-zagging on the issue did highlight the biggest weak spot in his, and his party's, economic agenda. He still hasn't quite figured out how to sell it. For all his skills as a storyteller and a speaker, he has not settled on a compelling message about how to put the economy on the right path. 
 The lack of such a message has contributed to several of his worst moments over the last year. Most recently, the campaign has come out with a series of small-bore, populist energy plans -- a windfall-profits tax on oil companies, a crackdown on speculators, a partial opening of the strategic oil reserve -- that seem more political than economic. The most glaring misstep on this score was his comment this spring about bitter rural voters clinging to guns and religion. It was, in effect, an admission that his own message about the economy hadn't yet broken through. 
 III. A 'University of Chicago' Democrat 
 Starting in the early 1990s, Obama spent 12 years at the University of Chicago, mostly as a senior lecturer on constitutional law. It was a part-time job that helped him make money while he began to build his political career. But it also happened to place him inside what is arguably the intellectual center of modern American economic conservatism, the home of Milton Friedman and the laissez-faire philosophy known as the Chicago School of economics. By all accounts, Obama didn't spend much time with Friedman's disciples at the law school. Instead, he became friendly with another crowd: liberals who had come to think that Friedman was right about a lot, just not everything.
 The Chicago School believes that markets -- that is, millions of individuals making separate decisions -- almost always function better than economies that are managed by governments. In a market system, prices adjust whenever there is a shortage or a glut, and the problem soon resolves itself. Just as important, companies constantly compete with each other, which helps bring down prices, improves the quality of goods and ultimately lifts living standards. 
 In its more extreme forms, the Chicago School's ideas have some obvious flaws. History has shown that free markets aren't so good at, say, preventing pollution or the issuance of fantastically unrealistic mortgages. But over the last few decades, as Europe's regulated economies have struggled and Asia's move toward capitalism has spurred its fabulous boom, many liberals have also come to appreciate the virtues of markets.
 One of these liberals is Cass Sunstein, a prolific law professor who sometimes ate with Obama in the open, sunlit cafeteria off the lobby of the main building at Chicago's law school. Over sandwiches in that cafeteria this spring, Sunstein told me that he didn't think that Obama arrived at the law school as an old-style liberal or departed as anything like a Friedmanite. Yet Sunstein and other former Chicago colleagues I spoke with said they believed that Chicago had helped give Obama an intellectual framework for his instincts, at the least, and probably made him come to appreciate markets more.
 Obama, when I asked him, agreed that his years surrounded by Chicago School thinking affected him. He tends to assign his motives to more intimate narratives, though, and he said that his grandmother, a high-school graduate who rose to become the vice president of a bank and was the family's main breadwinner, had the biggest impact. ''She had to think very practically about, How do you make money?'' he told me. ''How does the system work? That led me to have an orientation to ask hardheaded questions. During my formative years, there was still ideological competition between a social-democratic or even socialist agenda and a free-market, Milton Friedman agenda. I think it was natural for me to ask questions of both sides and maybe try to synthesize approaches.'' 
 There is plenty of evidence that this synthesis isn't merely a part of a candidate's inevitable tack to the center for a general election. In Obama's memoir, ''Dreams From My Father,'' he sympathetically recounts a conversation he had with a Kenyan farmer, in which the man complains both about rich people who won't pay their fair share of taxes and about burdensome government regulations on coffee growing. In Obama's second book, ''The Audacity of Hope,'' he goes further: ''Reagan's central insight -- that the liberal welfare state had grown complacent and overly bureaucratic, with Democratic policy makers more obsessed with slicing the economic pie than with growing that pie -- contained a good deal of truth.'' 
 The partial embrace of Reaganomics is a typical bit of Obama's postpartisan veneer. In a single artful sentence, he dismissed the old liberals, aligned himself with the Bill Clinton centrists and did so by reaching back to a conservative icon who remains widely popular. But the words have significance at face value too. Compared with many other Democrats, Obama simply is more comfortable with the apparent successes of laissez-faire economics. 
 Sunstein, now on the faculty at Harvard, has a name for this approach: ''I like to think of him as a 'University of Chicago' Democrat.''
 It's a useful label. Today's Democratic consensus has moved the party to the left, and on issues like inequality and climate change, Obama appears willing to be even more aggressive than many fellow Democrats. From this standpoint, he's a true liberal. Yet he also says he believes that there are significant parts of Reaganism worth preserving. So his policies often involve setting up a government program to address a market failure but then trying to harness the power of the market within that program. This, at times, makes him look like a conservative Democrat. 
 From the beginning, Obama has sought out academic economists, rather than lawyers or former White House aides. His first economic adviser, Austan Goolsbee, is a young University of Chicago professor who shares Obama's market-oriented Democratic views. This summer, Obama added Furman, who has a more traditional background, having worked for both the Clinton administration and the Kerry campaign. But he, too, has a Ph.D. in economics, from Harvard.
 As anyone who has spent time with Obama knows, he likes experts, and his choice of advisers stems in part from his interest in empirical research. (James Heckman, a Nobel laureate who critiqued the campaign's education plan at Goolsbee's request, said, ''I've never worked with a campaign that was more interested in what the research shows.'') By surrounding himself with economists, however, Obama was also making a decision with ideological consequences. Far more than many other policy advisers, economists believe in the power of markets. What tends to distinguish Democratic economists is that they set out to uncover imperfections of the market and then come up with incremental, market-based solutions to these imperfections. This helps explain the Obama campaign's interest in behavioral economics, a relatively new field that has pointed out many ways in which people make irrational, short-term decisions. To deal with one example of such myopia, Obama would require companies to automatically set aside a portion of their workers' salary in a 401(k) plan. Any worker could override the decision -- and save nothing at all or save even more -- but the default would be to save.
 A more controversial version of Obama's market friendliness came from his health-care proposal, which, unlike Hillary Clinton's, would not mandate that people have health insurance. Like other Democrats, he was pushing for a big government program to deal with what he saw as market failures in health care and to bring down the price of insurance. Once the program was in place, though, he trusted a market of individuals to make its own decisions; once the government had subsidized health insurance, he thought the vast majority of the uninsured would sign up.
 There are similar strains in Obama's proposals on housing and education, and it's worth remembering that these all came out before he was the presumptive nominee. The best example of his approach, however, may be his climate policy. By last year, Democrats in Congress essentially agreed that to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, the government should place a nationwide cap on these emissions and then issue tradable permits giving companies the right to produce them (thus the term ''cap and trade''). Most Congressional bills envisioned giving away many of the permits to power companies. Economists, by and large, considered this giveaway to be the worst part of the plan. It would require Congress to decide how many free permits each company should get and would set off a frenzy of corporate lobbying. 
 The alternative was to auction off the permits -- to let the market set their value. ''If you don't auction 100 percent of the permits,'' Goolsbee told me, ''this could be one of the biggest pieces of corporate welfare ever.'' With Congress making the decisions, the power companies with the best political connections might get the permits. With a full auction, the permits would end up with companies willing to make the highest bids. Presumably, these would be the most efficient companies, the ones able to produce the most energy (and profits) for a given amount of greenhouse-gas pollution. 
 The auctions would have another big advantage too. They would raise billions of dollars for the government, money that could then be returned to taxpayers to offset the higher energy prices created by the emissions cap. 
 It seems likely that a President Obama would sign a cap-and-trade bill even if it did give away some permits. But candidate Obama has at least moved the debate toward a more pro-market solution.
 IV. The End of the Age of Reagan?
 ''The market is the best mechanism ever invented for efficiently allocating resources to maximize production,'' Obama told me. ''And I also think that there is a connection between the freedom of the marketplace and freedom more generally.'' But, he continued, ''there are certain things the market doesn't automatically do.'' In other words, free-market policy isn't likely to dominate his agenda; his project would be fixing the market.
 And it does seem to need fixing. For three decades now, the American economy has been in what the historian Sean Wilentz calls the Age of Reagan. The government has deregulated industries, opened the economy more to market forces and, above all, cut income taxes. Much good has come of this -- the end of 1970s stagflation, infrequent and relatively mild recessions, faster growth than that of the more regulated economies of Europe. Yet laissez-faire capitalism hasn't delivered nearly what its proponents promised. It has created big budget deficits, the most pronounced income inequality since the 1920s and the current financial crisis. As Lawrence Summers, the former Treasury secretary and Rubin ally from the Clinton administration, says: ''We've probably done a better job of the last 20 years on the problems the market can solve than the problems the market can't solve. We're doing pretty well on the size of people's houses and televisions and the like. We're not looking so good on infrastructure and education.'' 
 The closest thing to an Obama doctrine on market regulation was a speech he gave in March at Cooper Union in New York, called ''Renewing the American Economy.'' It included his usual praise of market forces, and his prescriptions for regulating the financial system were mostly mainstream Democratic fare, like tougher penalties for loan fraud, tighter rules and closer oversight for Wall Street. These steps might or might not prevent the next crisis, but they would certainly place a bigger emphasis on trying to do so. And the speech, if anything, probably placed Obama on the more aggressively liberal side of the Democratic platform. Afterward, Robert Kuttner, an unabashedly left-leaning Democrat, praised Obama for going ''well beyond the current Democratic Party consensus.'' 
 Shortly before Obama's speech, the Federal Reserve made emergency loans to investment banks that hadn't officially been under its supervision. Obama argued that, going forward, the Fed had to be given permanent oversight of any such institutions, because their executives would henceforth assume that the government would come to their rescue. If taxpayers were going to be on the hook for those banks when they failed, he suggested, the government should have the chance to minimize the risk of failure. (Since March, Fed officials themselves have inched toward a similar position.)
 There is, plainly, a big potential conflict between the University of Chicago side of Obama and the regulator side. A regulation that sounds sensible today can end up having nasty unintended consequences. But in Obama's view, the risks to market-based capitalism now have more to do with too little regulation than too much. He can sound almost righteous on this point. He talked to me about the need for a moral element to capitalism and said that the crony capitalism of recent years should be the nightmare of any market-loving economist. At times, this part of his message can seem to overwhelm his respect for the market. Obama's aides have justified his proposed windfall-profits tax on oil companies, for example, by saying that it makes up for the unjustifiable tax breaks the energy industry has received in the past. But that doesn't change the fact that it's a tax targeted at a specific industry, which, as some economists have pointed out, is just the sort of tinkering that the Chicago School detests. 
 V. Spreading the Wealth
 The most tangible way that today's economy feels unfair is the lack of real income growth for most families. Earlier this year, when I interviewed Obama during the primaries, he was careful to say that he didn't think President Bush deserved all that much blame for the stagnant incomes of the current decade. Income growth for most families began to slow in the 1970s, and the causes of the great pay slowdown were complex. Obama didn't name them all, but a decent list would look something like this: new technologies that have made some blue-collar work obsolete; a slowing in the nation's educational attainment; the shriveling of labor unions; the increase in one-parent families, which are far less economically secure; and the rise of other countries that have huge low-wage work forces.
 What Obama blamed the current administration for, he said, was aggravating these trends with the tax code. To a large extent, Obama's own economic agenda revolves around reversing Bush's tax policies and then going a bit further in the other direction. Here, more than in his regulatory approach, Obama stands on the left side of the Democratic Party, but not exactly in the traditional tax-and-spend ways. 
 It's helpful to start with a little history. When Reagan was elected, in 1980, tax rates on top incomes were so high that even liberal economists now say the economy was suffering. There simply wasn't enough of an incentive for rich people to start new companies or expand existing ones, because so much of their profits would have gone to the federal government. Someone making the equivalent of $5 million in 1980 -- in inflation-adjusted terms -- would have paid a combined federal tax rate of almost 60 percent, according to research by Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty, two academic economists. (These calculations cover not only income taxes but also payroll taxes, capital-gains taxes and others.) Reagan, by the end of his second term, had cut this rate to about 35 percent. Clinton raised it above 40 percent, but the current President Bush has reduced it to 34 percent. So over the same period that the rich have been getting much richer before taxes, their tax rates have also been falling far faster than the rates of any other income group.
 Dating back to Reagan, Republicans have packaged tax cuts on high earners with more modest middle-class tax cuts and then maneuvered the Democrats into an unwinnable choice: are you for tax cuts or against them? Obama, however, argues that this is the moment when the politics of taxes can be changed. 
 To do this, he is proposing tax cuts for most families that are significantly larger than those McCain is offering, along with major tax increases for families making more than $250,000 a year. ''That's essentially a major part of our economic plan,'' Obama said. ''But it's also a political message.'' Economically, he is trying to use the tax code to spread the bounty from the market-based American economy to a far wider group of families. Politically, he is trying to drive a wedge through the great Reagan tax gambit. 
 The Tax Policy Center, a research group run by the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute, has done the most detailed analysis of the Obama and McCain tax plans, and it has published a series of fascinating tables. For the bottom 80 percent of the population -- those households making $118,000 or less -- McCain's various tax cuts would mean a net savings of about $200 a year on average. Obama's proposals would bring $900 a year in savings. So for most people, Obama is the tax cutter in this campaign. 
 If there is a theme to the Obama tax philosophy, it's that the tax code is not quite as progressive as you think it is. Most of the public discussion about taxes tends to focus on the income tax, which taxes the affluent at a considerably higher rate than anyone else. But the income tax doesn't take the biggest bite out of most families' annual tax bill. The payroll tax does. And even as the federal government has been reducing income taxes over the last few decades, it has allowed the payroll tax, which finances Social Security and Medicare, to creep up. That's a big reason that overall tax rates for the bottom 80 percent of earners have not fallen as much as rates for the affluent.
 Obama's second-most-expensive proposal, after his health-care plan, is the equivalent of a $500 cut in the payroll tax for most workers. (It is actually a credit that is applied toward income taxes based on payroll taxes paid.) In a speech this month in Florida, he proposed that the cut take effect immediately, in the form of a rebate, to stimulate the economy. For most workers, it would be the first significant cut in the payroll tax in decades, if not ever. 
 The other way that he would cut taxes involves a series of technicalities. But since the campaign began, Goolsbee has been arguing that those technicalities offer one of the best glimpses of how Obama thinks about the tax code. Right now, several big tax breaks that sound broad-based -- like those for child care and mortgage interest -- don't always benefit middle-income and lower-income families. Another example is the Hope Credit for college tuition, a creation of the Clinton administration. Obama wants to more than double the credit, to $4,000. More to the point, he would make it ''fully refundable.'' As a result, a family with an income-tax bill of $3,000 wouldn't merely have that bill eliminated; it would also receive a $1,000 check. Increasingly, the income-tax system becomes a way to transfer money to poor families.
 All told, Obama would not only cut taxes for most people more than McCain would. He would cut them more than Bill Clinton did and more than Hillary Clinton proposed doing. These tax cuts are really the essence of his market-oriented redistributionist philosophy (though he made it clear that he doesn't like the word ''redistributionist''). They are an attempt to address the middle-class squeeze by giving people a chunk of money to spend as they see fit. 
 He would then pay for the cuts, at least in part, by raising taxes on the affluent to a point where they would eventually be slightly higher than they were under Clinton. For these upper-income families, the Tax Policy Center's comparisons with McCain are even starker. McCain, by continuing the basic thrust of Bush's tax policies and adding a few new wrinkles, would cut taxes for the top 0.1 percent of earners -- those making an average of $9.1 million -- by another $190,000 a year, on top of the Bush reductions. Obama would raise taxes on this top 0.1 percent by an average of $800,000 a year. 
 It's hard not to look at that figure and be a little stunned. It would represent a huge tax increase on the wealthy families. But it's also worth putting the number in some context. The bulk of Obama's tax increases on the wealthy -- about $500,000 of that $800,000 -- would simply take away Bush's tax cuts. The remaining $300,000 wouldn't nearly reverse their pretax income gains in recent years. Since the mid-1990s, their inflation-adjusted pretax income has roughly doubled. 
 To put it another way, the wealthy have done so well over the past few decades, with their incomes soaring and tax rates plummeting, that Obama's plan would not come close to erasing their gains. The same would be true of households making a few hundred thousand dollars a year (who have gotten smaller raises than the very rich but would also face smaller tax increases). As ambitious as Obama's proposals might be, they would still leave the gap between the rich and everyone else far wider than it was 15 or 30 years ago. It just wouldn't be quite as wide as it is now. 
 VI. Is He a European-Model Neoliberal?
 Even some Republicans have started to wonder whether the Reagan strategy on taxes has run its course. Earlier this year, two young conservative writers, Ross Douthat and Reihan Salam, came out with a book called ''Grand New Party.'' Their basic thesis is that the Republican Party, for all its successes over the past generation, has failed to cement its majority because of economics. If the party's agenda continues to revolve around tax cuts that mostly benefit the well off, the book argues, Republicans risk allowing a generation-long Democratic majority, like the kind that ruled the country from F.D.R. to L.B.J. To avoid this outcome, the authors offer an agenda of what they call Sam's Club Republicanism, focused on the working class.
 For now, the people running the party, be they in the Bush administration or the McCain campaign, evidently do not share this concern. They have responded to Obama's tax proposals with the same kind of attacks that the party has been using since the 1980s. First, they have argued that Obama's tax increases would end up hitting every income group. Strictly speaking, this is true. Obama's increase on the corporate income tax would ultimately fall on all stockholders, even poor ones. In practical terms, though, most families own little enough stock that the other features of the tax plan would matter far, far more. That's why the Tax Policy Center numbers, which include the corporate tax increase, come out as they do.
 The second criticism is that Obama's tax increases would send an already-weak economy into a tailspin. The problem with this argument is that it's been made before, fairly recently, and it proved to be spectacularly wrong. When Bill Clinton raised taxes on upper-income families in 1993, his supply-side critics insisted that he would ruin the economy. As we now know, Clinton presided over the longest economic expansion on record, the fastest income growth most workers had experienced in a generation and the disappearance of the federal-budget deficit. His successor, Bush, then did exactly what the supply-siders wanted, cutting upper-income tax rates, and the results were much worse. Economic growth wasn't quite as strong or nearly as widespread, and the deficit returned. At the very least, Clinton's increases did no discernible economic damage. Rubin, citing academic work on tax rates, made the case to me that rates under an Obama administration would not be nearly high enough to stifle innovation.
 There is, however, a more philosophical critique of Obama's tax policies. It's one that Douthat and Salam make in ''Grand New Party.'' The book doesn't mention Obama by name, but it contains one of the best summaries of his economic policy that I have read. The authors describe a new-model liberal consensus that weds ''the free-market centrism of the Clinton years to a revived push for European-style social democracy.'' This neoliberalism, as they call it, wouldn't involve the big-government programs of the postwar years, but the government would come to play a larger role in the economy and would redistribute much more income from the rich to everyone else. ''This is, in many respects, a deeply un-American solution to the problems facing our country,'' the authors write, ''one that would emphasize dependence over self-sufficiency and bureaucratic condescension over self-help.'' 
 Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former head of the Congressional Budget Office who has been advising McCain since the primaries, made a more specific version of this same point to me. Since Social Security was founded, its benefits have been based on the amount of payroll taxes that an individual worker paid over his or her lifetime. The system is progressive, in that the rich contribute more than the poor and do not get out everything they put in. But Obama would make it vastly more progressive. Currently, only income up to $102,000 is subject to the tax. After a decade, he would leave income between $102,000 and $250,000 untaxed, but would begin taxing income above that. The people paying this new tax probably would not get any additional retirement benefits in return. ''As a political matter,'' Holtz-Eakin argued, ''it reveals a lack of judgment.'' A program with almost unrivaled political support, he added, could turn into yet another government transfer program. 
 During my recent conversation with Obama, he mentioned Sam's Club Republicanism in a different context, and I asked him if he had read ''Grand New Party.'' He hadn't, he said, so I read him the line about dependence and condescension and asked for his reaction.
 He said it made him think of Warren Buffett, an Obama supporter, who, if anything, might argue that he wasn't going far enough to change the tax code. ''If you talk to Warren, he'll tell you his preference is not to meddle in the economy at all -- let the market work, however way it's going to work, and then just tax the heck out of people at the end and just redistribute it,'' Obama said. ''That way you're not impeding efficiency, and you're achieving equity on the back end.'' He continued by saying that he thought there was some merit in Buffett's argument. But, he said: ''I do think that what the argument may miss is the sense of control that we want individuals to have in determining their own career paths, making their own life choices and so forth. And I also think you want to instill that sense of self-reliance and that what you do will help determine outcomes.''
 VII. The New New Deal
 Last summer, just before a highway bridge in Minneapolis collapsed, Obama was meeting with a small group of economists. At one point, according to several people who were at the meeting, Obama said he agreed that blue-collar workers were struggling primarily because their skills weren't as much in demand as they used to be. Technology has remade the economy, and education and retraining were the best ways for workers to keep up. But any public-policy response couldn't be about just education; it also had to take account of the psychology of the workplace, Obama continued. Some laid-off steelworkers might indeed be able to go back to school to become health-care workers. But many of them don't want to work in health care or any service job. Factory workers, he said, want to make something. It's part of their identity.
 From there, Obama moved the conversation toward a discussion of how the government could improve the nation's infrastructure -- its backbone of bridges, roads, tunnels, airports and the like, much of which has seen better days. Since the dawn of the Age of Reagan, the idea that government spending can be a good thing for the economy has been out of favor, even among Democrats. But it's now making something of a comeback, particularly within Obama's camp. His agenda calls for about $50 billion in new annual spending on various investments, including infrastructure, alternative energy and scientific research. (To put that in perspective, the cut in the payroll tax would cost about $70 billion a year.)
 These investments might pay off in all sorts of ways. They are a classic form of stimulus that could help the economy emerge from the housing hangover. They would provide jobs for former factory workers and others without college degrees, many of whom have struggled over the past generation, and for whom the current home-building slump has been yet another blow. Above all, the investments would have the potential to pay big long-term dividends, in the form of a national economy that operated more smoothly.
 I came to think of this part of Obama's agenda as the Virginia model, thanks to Tim Kaine, Virginia's governor, who was one of the first Democrats to endorse Obama. Last year, Kaine began making the case to Goolsbee that the campaign should view Virginia as a model for the rest of the country. In just a few decades, the state has managed to transform itself in precisely the way that economists think the United States now must -- to a higher-wage economy with a more-educated population, a place that has prospered even while losing many of its old-line manufacturing jobs. And it did so with a crucial shove from the government.
 For much of the 20th century, Virginia was a poor state, but after World War II, with the cold war under way and the military growing, well-paying defense contractors began to sprout up around the Pentagon, in northern Virginia. By the 1970s, Darpa, the Pentagon's research arm, began working on a computer network, which soon spawned a new form of communication: electronic mail. That computer system eventually became the Internet, and Northern Virginia suddenly had the beginnings of a brand-new industry. In recent decades, Virginia has also invested money in the port near Norfolk and has vastly expanded its colleges and universities. Today the state's per-capita income is 7 percent higher than the national average.
 The trick for someone trying to replicate Virginia's success is figuring out which investments to make. As any Chicago School economist would remind you, the federal government has made its share of mistakes in this area, a recent example being subsidies for ethanol, which Obama, a farm-state senator, has championed and McCain has opposed. But Obama at least seems to have learned one lesson from the experience: His proposed new infrastructure spending would be overseen by a bipartisan board of unelected officials, rather than members of Congress. 
 More important, perhaps, is the fact that a single success, like the Internet or the Interstate highway system, can make up for a lot of failures. Jason Grumet, a Washington lawyer who is the Obama campaign's lead environmental adviser, made this point to me after I asked him why anyone should have confidence in the government's ability to pick winners. ''We all talk about Apollo 11, but there were some pretty public, pretty awful failures along the way,'' Grumet said. ''The United States didn't say: 'Well, we had some failures. We're going to give up getting to the moon.' '' 
 VIII. Lots of Beef, Shortage of Message
 When Obama gives a speech about his economic plan, there is often a moment when you can sense him shift from poetry to prose. He can be inspiring when talking about how the country ended up being the envy of the world. But when he comes to the part about what he wants to do next, how he wants to keep America the envy of the world, it can sound a little like a State of the Union laundry list.
 His advisers are divided about how much of a problem this is. Some of them told me that he did have a unifying theme -- the middle-class squeeze -- and that it would become clearer to voters as they began paying closer attention to the race. Others said they didn't think Obama had yet come up with a simple way to explain how he would alleviate that squeeze. Obama himself seems well aware of the stakes. In 2005, on a call-in public-radio show, he told a listener that Democrats hadn't been as effective in telling a story about the country as Republicans. In the end, he said, people voted not for a hodgepodge of position papers but for someone who could explain to them where the country should be going. 
 So I asked Obama whether he thought he had been able to tell an effective story about the economy during this campaign. Specifically, I wondered, did he think he had a message that compared with Reagan's simple call for less government and lower taxes. 
 He paused for a few seconds and then said this: 
 ''I think I can tell a pretty simple story. Ronald Reagan ushered in an era that reasserted the marketplace and freedom. He made people aware of the cost involved of government regulation or at least a command-and-control-style regulation regime. Bill Clinton to some extent continued that pattern, although he may have smoothed out the edges of it. And George Bush took Ronald Reagan's insight and ran it over a cliff. And so I think the simple way of telling the story is that when Bill Clinton said the era of big government is over, he wasn't arguing for an era of no government. So what we need to bring about is the end of the era of unresponsive and inefficient government and short-term thinking in government, so that the government is laying the groundwork, the framework, the foundation for the market to operate effectively and for every single individual to be able to be connected with that market and to succeed in that market. And it's now a global marketplace. 
 ''Now, that's the story. Now, telling it elegantly -- 'low taxes, smaller government' -- the way the Republicans have, I think is more of a challenge.''
 Even if Obama does figure out how to meet the challenge well enough to get elected, there are any number of ways in which his plans could fail. He has never run any government entity -- no state, no city, not even a municipal agency -- and he may not prove to be good at doing so. The economy could deteriorate further, leaving him with a Clinton-like choice between manageable deficits and direct help for the middle class. Or maybe the many economists who like his agenda are simply wrong. Maybe his health-care program won't bring down costs. Maybe the Virginia model won't work for the rest of the country.
 But it's not entirely clear what the alternative is, at least in the broad sense and at least for the time being. A much more left-wing agenda than Obama's would consist of erecting new trade barriers, reregulating various industries and otherwise getting the government even more involved in the economy than Obama would. This program has the dubious distinction of being disliked by both voters and experts alike. Populism hasn't won a national election, or even the Democratic nomination, in decades, and economists can point to any number of ways why it wouldn't work anyway.
 Republicans, on the other hand, have an economic strategy that may still sell politically. But is there much reason to think that it would lead to a very different result from Bush's? There have now been two presidents in the last 30 years -- Bush and Reagan -- who cut taxes and promised that deficits would not follow. But the deficits did come, and they went away only after two other presidents -- George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton -- raised taxes. It also seems fairly clear by now that tax cuts for the affluent do not necessarily trickle down to everyone else.
 For Democrats who want to think the worst about their opponents, McCain's reliance on these ideas may be affirming. But it's really a shame. For the time being, only one party is applying the lessons of history to the country's biggest economic problems. There is no great battle of new ideas, and that can't make it more likely that those problems will be solved.
 Shortly after I boarded Obama's campaign plane this month, one of his press aides warned me that the conversation might not last long. She explained that he was exhausted from two days of campaigning in Florida and might decide to nap as soon as he got on the plane. But a few minutes later he summoned me to the plane's first-class section, evidently choosing an economics discussion over a DVD of ''Mad Men,'' which was sitting on his side table. His eyes were tired, and he looked a good deal older than he had only four years ago, on the night that he became famous at the 2004 Democratic convention. But we ended up talking for an hour. After I returned to my seat, the press aide walked back to tell me that Obama had more to say.
 ''Two things,'' he said, as we were standing outside the first-class bathroom. ''One, just because I think it really captures where I was going with the whole issue of balancing market sensibilities with moral sentiment. One of my favorite quotes is -- you know that famous Robert F. Kennedy quote about the measure of our G.D.P.?''
 I didn't, I said. 
 ''Well, I'll send it to you, because it's one of the most beautiful of his speeches,'' Obama said. 
 In it, Kennedy argues that a country's health can't be measured simply by its economic output. That output, he said, ''counts special locks for our doors and the jails for those who break them'' but not ''the health of our children, the quality of their education or the joy of their play.''
 The second point Obama wanted to make was about sustainability. The current concerns about the state of the planet, he said, required something of a paradigm shift for economics. If we don't make serious changes soon, probably in the next 10 or 15 years, we may find that it's too late.
 Both of these points, I realized later, were close cousins of two of the weaker arguments that liberals have made in recent decades. Liberals have at times dismissed the enormous benefits that come withprosperity. And for decades some liberals have been wrongly predicting that economic growth was sure to leave the world without enough food or enough oil or enough something. Obama acknowledged as much, saying that technology had thus far always overcome any concerns about sustainability and that Kennedy's notion had to be tempered with an appreciation of prosperity.
 What's new about the current moment, however, is that both of these arguments are actually starting to look relevant. Based on the collective wisdom of scientists, global warming really does seem to be different from any previous environmental crisis. For the first time on record, meanwhile, economic growth has not translated into better living standards for most Americans. These are two enormous challenges that are part of the legacy of the Reagan Age. They will be waiting for the next president, whether he is Obama or McCain, and they'll probably be around for another couple of presidents too. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM DAVIS
PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY VICTOR SCHRAGER FOR THE NEW YORK T IMES. PROP STYLIST: MEGAN CAPONETTO
 PHOTO I LLUSTRATION BY VICTOR SCHRAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. PROP STYLI S 34 T: MEGAN CAPONETTO) (pg.MM29, 33, 34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CONSERVATISM (85%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); MEDICARE (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



610 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: What the Voters Know

 BODY:
It came as no surprise when the latest New York Times/CBS News poll showed voters focused overwhelmingly on economic issues. Jobs are disappearing. Incomes are falling. Home equity is evaporating. Prices are rising. Debt loads are crushing. 
 What is most striking is voters' belief that neither candidate is paying enough attention to their distress. Senator John McCain and Senator Barack Obama have spoken at length about the economy. But voters have yet to hear what they believe are compelling answers. 
 In one key area -- the causes and cures for declining wages -- the voters are right: neither candidate has adequately addressed the issue. Both have to give fuller explanations of how they plan to run government without running the country ever deeper into the red. 
 For all that, the two men have revealed fundamentally different economic philosophies and policies. 
 Taxes are at the core of each candidate's economic agenda. Mr. McCain's proposed tax cuts are directed mostly at the wealthy; Mr. Obama's are aimed at lower- and middle-income Americans and paired with tax increases for the wealthy. This page has long decried the high-end tax cuts of the Bush years. And Mr. McCain's plan to continue them, while piling on more, will neither grow the economy nor raise revenue. The mega-deficits they would create would be a drag on any growth. 
 Mr. Obama's plan is a corrective to years of unjustifiable tax giveaways. It would also lead to deficits, but not nearly as large. Because the tax increases at the top of the income ladder would pay for cuts lower down, his plan would begin to address widening inequality. 
 But -- a big, big but -- tax cuts, no matter where they are aimed, do nothing to address Americans' most fundamental problem: the fact that they are working harder and falling further behind. 
 For that, workers need greater bargaining power, greater job growth to bid wages up, and a higher minimum wage to ensure that full-time work is a path out of poverty. Mr. McCain has not connected his tax cut plan to a labor agenda in any meaningful way. Mr. Obama has made a start: supporting a bill to make it easier for employees to unionize and a bolstered minimum wage. 
 No matter who wins, the economy's dire circumstances will not abate soon. Many Americans, especially those who lose their homes or home equity, will never recover their economic security. That, coupled with globalization's stresses and an aging population, make a strong social safety net more important than ever. 
 Despite his pledges to cut waste, fraud and earmarks, we cannot see how Mr. McCain can cut spending enough to pay for his proposed tax cuts without taking an ax to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Mr. Obama has only begun to explain how he will fulfill his pledge to preserve Social Security without privatizing it. 
 The candidates also have a credibility problem. Both seem to believe that any real gloominess, or strong critique of the market system, would be seen as un-American. So you get Mr. McCain's absurd claim that the economy is basically sound. And you get Mr. Obama's paeans to unfettered markets -- before he dares to venture a critique that, while generally accurate, is far too genteel. 
 We suspect each man would do a better job connecting if they started by acknowledging what the voters' all too painfully know: This country is in deep economic trouble, and it will take not only creativity but real sacrifice to fix these problems. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MEDICARE (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); AGING (60%); AGING TRENDS (60%); MEDICAID (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



611 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Global Economies Slipping in Unison

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN; Keith Bradsher, Carter Dougherty and Heather Timmons contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Economic trouble has spread far beyond the United States to major countries in Europe and Asia, threatening American businesses with the loss of foreign sales and investment that have become increasingly vital to their sustenance.
 Only a few months ago, some economists still offered hope that robust expansion could continue in much of the world even as the United States slowed. Foreign investment was expected to keep replenishing American banks still bleeding from their disastrous bets on real estate and to provide money for companies looking to expand. Overseas demand for American goods and services was supposed to continue compensating for waning demand in the States.
 Now, high energy prices, financial systems crippled by fear, and the decline of trading partners have combined to choke growth in many major economies. The International Monetary Fund expects global growth to slow significantly through the end of this year, dipping to 4.1 percent from 5 percent in 2007.
 ''The global economy is in a tough spot, caught between sharply slowing demand in many advanced economies and rising inflation everywhere,'' the I.M.F. declared last month in its official World Economic Outlook. 
 All this means that economic troubles in the United States could intensify into the presidential election season and beyond. It could also make it harder for financial companies like Lehman Brothers -- which has been seeking fresh investment in South Korea -- and the government-backed mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to attract much-needed capital from abroad.
 As the United States and many other large economies slip in unison, the reality of integrated markets is being underscored: just as globalization spreads prosperity -- linking cotton farmers in Texas to textile mills in China -- the same forces spread hurt when times go bad.
 ''The slowdown has reached such a wide range of countries that they're now feeding on one another,'' said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital.
 The impact of the downturn is reflected by the experience of the Vermeer Corporation in Pella, Iowa. The company, which manufactures farming and construction equipment, has become accustomed to looking abroad for growth as the real estate bust in the United States has crimped purchases of its gear by American home builders. Its overseas sales have doubled in the last five years as a percentage of its total business and now make up nearly a third of its revenue, the company's senior director of international sales, Steve Heap, said.
 But in recent months, even as growth has continued over all, some parts of the world have sunk into malaise.
 ''The U.K. has been really soft for the last six months,'' Mr. Heap said. ''Western Europe overall has been flat. We've not seen the growth we've seen in the last few years.'' 
 Many other major economies are either stagnant or shrinking as well. Japan, whose fortunes are tethered to exports, saw its economy contract at a 2.4 percent annual rate from April through June after accounting for inflation. Germany, another export power, slid at a 2 percent clip. France and Italy slipped slightly.
 Spain and the United Kingdom -- both grappling with hangovers from their own real estate binges -- were both flat amid talk that they have already slipped into recession. The festivity of easy money has given way to recriminations over bad loans, unemployment and inflation.
 ''The year 2009 in Europe is going to look significantly worse than 2008,'' said Marco Annunziata, chief economist at the Italian bank UniCredit.
 Even China and India, whose swift growth has occasioned talk of a new global order, have been cooling in recent months, though still expanding at rates that would bring envy in nearly any other land.
 ''We had buoyant world growth for a few years,'' said William R. Cline, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''It was too hot not to cool down, as the song goes.''
 There is a potentially significant upside to the downturn under way: it could knock down rising prices for food and energy, which have been driven higher by swelling demand in a swiftly expanding world economy.
 The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, has been betting on that very scenario as he has rejected calls for higher interest rates to suffocate inflation.
 The recent drop in commodity prices, combined with ''a pace of growth that is likely to fall short of potential for a time, should lead inflation to moderate later this year and next year,'' Mr. Bernanke said Friday at the Fed's annual economic symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyo.
 Still, concern centers on the possibility that slowing global growth could hurt sales of American goods and services overseas. Exports have been a conspicuous bright spot in an economy colored by falling home prices and declining consumer spending.
 The dollar has been strengthening against many currencies in recent weeks -- not because of a newfound belief in American prospects, economists say, but because investors are edging out of markets that are weakening, like Britain and other parts of Europe, sending down the pound and the euro. 
 ''It's the rest of the world going down, not the United States going up,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund and now a professor at Harvard.
 A stronger dollar makes American goods more expensive on world markets. If the dollar keeps strengthening, it could pinch sales.
 ''Exports have been sort of holding us out of the graveyard,'' said Martin N. Baily, a former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Clinton administration, and now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. ''That may begin to peter out a little bit if the dollar continues to climb.''
 Some economists argue that the dollar's recent strengthening is a correction after six years of declines that have sapped it of one-fourth of its value against the currencies of major trading partners. Others maintain that the dollar has further to fall, noting that the United States remains on the short of end of a lopsided balance of trade, with imports outstripping exports by nearly $800 billion at the end of last year.
 Regardless of the dollar's value, sales of American goods may be eroded by a more decisive force: a global loss of appetite for goods. ''If the rest of the world economy slows, the demand just isn't going to be there,'' Mr. Ruskin said.
 That could be painful for American companies that rely on overseas markets. In 2001, large American companies that disclosed foreign revenues logged about a third of their sales abroad, according to an analysis by Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard & Poor's. By last year, the foreign take had climbed to 46 percent. Europe made up 29 percent of the total.
 Some American businesses say it is too early to worry about a global downturn.
 ''When I see the headlines, I worry, but when I look at my order book, I stop worrying,'' said James W. Griffith, president and chief executive of the Timken Company, a Canton, Ohio, manufacturer of industrial bearings and power transmission equipment with operations in 27 countries.
 Roughly half of Timken's bearing business is overseas, cushioning the company against the loss of sales in the American auto industry -- a trend Mr. Griffith says he is confident will continue.
 ''When China decides they want to build a car, somebody runs a steel mill with coal and iron oreout of Australia, and they mine it with Caterpillar dump trucks which are full of Timken bearings,'' Mr. Griffith said. ''What is driving our success is the globalization of markets.''
 Still, the transformation of foreign shores from a refuge for American business into a source of anxiety is a testament to how swiftly trouble can proliferate in the global economy.
 India's customer service call centers -- heavily dependent on American demand -- are now girding for cuts. 
 In China, the pace of growth has dipped from an annual rate exceeding 12 percent as recently as last year to something closer to 9 or 10 percent, according to most economists.
 China's leaders have become concerned about flagging exports, recently altering priorities from seeking to squelch inflation to instead sustaining economic growth. The government is easing restrictions on bank lending, which were imposed to put the brakes on the economy.
 When China makes fewer computers, it needs fewer computer chips forged in Taiwan and designed in the United States. It needs less steel, and so less iron ore from Brazil and Australia. Which means those countries need less construction equipment made in Germany, Japan or Ohio.
 ''The global slowdown is going to create some headwind for the United States,'' said Stephen Jen, an economist at Morgan Stanley in London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INFLATION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TEXTILES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); TEXTILE MFG (63%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (63%); FABRIC MILLS (63%); TEXTILE MILLS (63%); COTTON FARMING (63%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



612 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Last Call for Change We Can Believe In

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
AS the real campaign at last begins in Denver this week, this much is certain: It's time for Barack Obama to dispatch ''Change We Can Believe In'' to a dignified death.
 This isn't because -- OMG! -- Obama's narrow three- to four-percentage-point lead of recent weeks dropped to a statistically indistinguishable one- to three-point margin during his week of vacation. It's because zero hour is here. As the presidential race finally gains the country's full attention, the strategy that vanquished Hillary Clinton must be rebooted to take out John McCain.
 ''Change We Can Believe In'' was brilliantly calculated for a Democratic familial brawl where every candidate was promising nearly identical change from George Bush. It branded Obama as the sole contender with the un-Beltway biography, credibility and political talent to link the promise of change to the nation's onrushing generational turnover in all its cultural (and, yes, racial) manifestations. McCain should be a far easier mark than Clinton if Obama retools his act. 
 What we have learned this summer is this: McCain's trigger-happy temperament and reactionary policies offer worse than no change. He is an unstable bridge back not just to Bush policies but to an increasingly distant 20th-century America that is still fighting Red China in Vietnam and the Soviet Union in the cold war. As the country tries to navigate the fast-moving changes of the 21st century, McCain would put America on hold.
 What Obama also should have learned by now is that the press is not his friend. Of course, he gets more ink and airtime than McCain; he's sexier news. But as George Mason University's Center for Media and Public Affairs documentedin its study of six weeks of TV news reports this summer, Obama's coverage was 28 percent positive, 72 percent negative. (For McCain, the split was 43/57.) Even McCain's most blatant confusions, memory lapses and outright lies still barely cause a ripple, whether he's railing against a piece of pork he in fact voted for, as he did at the Saddleback Church pseudodebate last weekend, or falsifying crucial details of his marital history in his memoirs, as The Los Angeles Times uncovered in court records last month.
 What should Obama do now? As premature panic floods through certain liberal precincts, there's no shortage of advice: more meat to his economic plan, more passion in his stump delivery, less defensiveness in response to attacks and, as is now happening, sharper darts at a McCain lifestyle so extravagant that we are only beginning to learn where all the beer bullion is buried. 
 But Obama is never going to be a John Edwards-style populist barnburner. (Edwards wasn't persuasive either, by the way.) Nor will wonkish laundry lists of policy details work any better for him than they did for Al Gore or Hillary Clinton. Obama has those details to spare, in any case, while McCain, who didn't even include an education policy on his Web site during primary season, is still winging it. As David Leonhardt observes in his New York Times Magazine cover article on ''Obamanomics'' today, Obama's real problem is not a lack of detail but his inability to sell policy with ''an effective story.''
 That story is there to be told, but it has to be a story that is more about America and the future and less about Obama and his past. After all these months, most Americans, for better or worse, know who Obama is. So much so that he seems to have fought off the relentless right-wing onslaught to demonize him as an elitist alien. Asked in last week's New York Times/CBS News poll if each candidate shares their values, registered voters gave Obama and McCain an identical 63 percent. Asked if each candidate ''cares about the needs and problems of people like yourself,'' Obama beat McCain by 37 to 23 percent. Is the candidate ''someone you can relate to''? Obama: 55 percent, McCain: 41. Even before McCain told Politico that he relies on the help to count up the houses he owns, he was the candidate seen as the out-of-step elitist.
 So while Obama can continue to try to reassure resistant Clinton loyalists in Appalachia that he's not a bogeyman from Madrassaland, he must also move on to the bigger picture for everyone else. He must rekindle the ''fierce urgency of now'' -- but not, as he did in the primaries, merely to evoke uplifting echoes of the civil-rights struggle or the need for withdrawal from Iraq. 
 Most Americans, unlike the press, are not obsessed by race. (Those whites who are obsessed by race will not vote for Obama no matter what he or anyone else has to say about it.) And most Americans have turned their backs on the Iraq war, no matter how much McCain keeps bellowing about ''victory.'' The Bush White House is now poised to alight with the Iraqi government on a withdrawal timetable far closer to Obama's 16 months than McCain's vague promise of a 2013 endgame. As Gen. David Petraeus returns home, McCain increasingly resembles those mad Japanese soldiers who remained at war on remote Pacific islands years after Hiroshima. 
 Economic anxiety is the new terrorism. This is why the most relevant snapshot of voters' concerns was not to be found at Saddleback Church but at the Olympics last Saturday. For all the political press's hype, only some 5.5 million viewers tuned in to the Rev. Rick Warren's show in Orange County, Calif. Roughly three-quarters of them were over 50 -- in other words, the McCain base. By contrast, a diverse audience of 32 million Americans tuned in to Beijing that night to watch Michael Phelps win his eighth gold medal.
 This was a rare feel-good moment for a depressed country. But the unsettling subtext of the Olympics has been as resonant for Americans as the Phelps triumph. You couldn't watch NBC's weeks of coverage without feeling bombarded by an ascendant China whose superior cache of gold medals and dazzling management of the Games became a proxy for its spectacular commercial and cultural prowess in the new century. Even before the Olympics began, a July CNN poll found that 70 percent of Americans fear China's economic might -- about as many as find America on the wrong track. Americans watching the Olympics could not escape the reality that China in particular and Asia in general will continue to outpace our country in growth while we remain mired in stagnancy and debt (much of it held by China).
 How we dig out of this quagmire is the American story that Obama must tell. It is not a story of endless conflicts abroad but a potentially inspiring tale of serious economic, educational, energy and health-care mobilization at home. We don't have the time or resources to go off on more quixotic military missions or to indulge in culture wars. (In China, they're too busy exploiting scientific advances for competitive advantage to reopen settled debates about Darwin.) Americans must band together for change before the new century leaves us completely behind. The Obama campaign actually has plans, however imperfect or provisional, to set us on that path; the McCain campaign offers only disposable Band-Aids typified by the ''drill now'' mantra that even McCain says will only have a ''psychological'' effect on gas prices. 
 Even as it points to America's future, the Obama campaign also has the duty to fill in its opponent's past. McCain's attacks on Obama have worked: in last week's Los Angeles Times-Bloomberg poll, Obama's favorable rating declined from 59 to 48 percent and his negative rating rose from 27 to 35. Yet McCain still has a lower positive rating (46 percent) and higher negative rating (38) than Obama. McCain is not nearly as popular among Americans, it turns out, as he is among his journalistic camp followers. Should voters actually get to know him, he has nowhere to go but down.
 The argument against Obama's ''going negative'' is that it undermines his message of ''transcendent politics'' and will make him look like an ''angry black man.'' But pacifistic politics is an oxymoron, and Obama is constitutionally incapable of coming off angrier than McCain. A few more fisticuffs from the former law professor (and many more from his running mate and other surrogates) can only help make him look less skinny (metaphorically if not literally). Obama should go after McCain's supposedly biggest asset -- experience -- much as McCain went after Obama's crowd-drawing celebrity. 
 It is, after all, not mere happenstance that so many conservative pundits -- Rich Lowry, Peggy Noonan, Ramesh Ponnuru -- have, to McCain's irritation, proposed that he ''patriotically'' declare in advance that he will selflessly serve only a single term. Whatever their lofty stated reasons for promoting this stunt, their underlying message is clear: They recognize in their heart of hearts that the shelf life of McCain's experience has already reached its expiration date. 
 Is a man who is just discovering the Internet qualified to lead a restoration of America's economic and educational infrastructures? Is the leader of a virtually all-white political party America's best salesman and moral avatar in the age of globalization? Does a bellicose Vietnam veteran who rushed to hitch his star to the self-immolating overreaches of Ahmad Chalabi, Pervez Musharraf and Mikheil Saakashvili have the judgment to keep America safe?
 R.I.P., ''Change We Can Believe In.'' The fierce urgency of the 21st century demands Change Before It's Too Late. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); MARRIAGE (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); VIET NAM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008



613 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GOING DOWN THE ROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Holding Out, to Last Tiny Isle, As Cajun Land Sinks Into Gulf

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: GOLDEN MEADOW, La. 

 BODY:
The men still bark orders in a French patois here while at work along the banks of Bayou Lafourche, a watery main street whose lazy currents the color of smoky topaz flow south to other Cajun towns and the Gulf of Mexico. 
 The route enjoys a history of beguiling newcomers with its curious swamp-life customs, pirate tales and exuberant seafood offerings, which were already well-documented in 1941 when writers for the government's Work Projects Administration set out to create travel guides for all the states. The writers' project has been republished online and is attracting new attention. 
 Here, about an hour south of New Orleans, the writers followed Bayou Lafourche (pronounced la-FOOSH) to the gulf along a ''graveled and shell roadbed'' that is now Louisiana Highway 1, fully paved. They gushed about ''boom fishing centers,'' newly discovered oil and the seemingly endless bounty of the Gulf of Mexico, the area's economic lifeblood, in Golden Meadow (population, 2,500; altitude, two feet).
 ''This part of the state is a lush land of great fecundity,'' an unnamed writer enthused. 
 There was little hint of what was to come.
 Golden Meadow is sinking fast along with the rest of the southeastern Louisiana coast into the gulf, still its lifeblood but now also its nemesis.
 ''From year to year we can see the land that used to be there is not there anymore,'' said Elphege Brunet Jr., whose family lives and works up and down the bayou. ''I'm almost 77 and I've seen it change before my eyes.''
 Coastal erosion is eating away at the culture, the livelihood and, quite tangibly, the land itself at the ravenous rate of 12 square miles to more than 20 square miles a year. 
 Whole communities have already washed away. Old timers speak wistfully about Sea Breeze and Manilla Village, settlements built on stilts in the marshes. These sorts of insular, out-of-the-way places were common in Cajun country even though they might not have appeared on Louisiana's road maps. Now they never will. 
 ''It's the fastest disappearing land mass on Earth,'' said Kerry St. Pe, a marine biologist who is director of the Barataria Terrebonne National Estuary Program, which works to help save the coast. 
 As a W.P.A. writer acknowledged, ''South Louisiana takes its character from the French-speaking people who settled the vast, wet terrain, and who in the eighteenth century penetrated its rivers and bayous to make homes for themselves in the jungle-like forests.'' 
 According to Mr. St. Pe, whose family has lived in the area since 1760, ''There's a sadness about our people now.''
 The Louisiana coast depended for thousands of years on the routine overflow of the Mississippi River to deposit its sediment load and build land. But, beginning around the 1930s, in order to save lives and cities, the federal government built massive levees to constrain and control the river, effectively stopping it from doing what nature wants it to do.
 As a result, for the past 70 years or so, the sinking of the delta coast has continued unabated. As salt water pushes inland from the gulf, it kills wetlands and marshes, habitat for wildlife and fish, and is increasingly threatening homes for many thousands of people.
 The Cajuns, exiled from Canada by the British for religious and political reasons in the 1700s, have always been expert at carrying on with their particular joie de vivre despite hardship, and nothing has changed. The reality of land loss plays out like a somber bass line upon which the high notes of life continue as usual.
 ''The gulf is creeping up,'' said Mr. Brunet's wife, Vina Mae, stirring a pot of redfish courtboullion, a typical Friday feast for her 10 grandchildren. ''But over all we feel pretty fortunate about our lives.''
 Diverting fresh water from the Mississippi could help save the land, scientists say, but so far the cost, complicated engineering and lack of political will have thwarted long-term solutions. 
 ''We're fearful that Golden Meadow and other communities like this are going to be given up to the sea,'' said Kirk Cheramie, 52, the host of a local radio show, ''Talk of the Bayou.'' ''Many people my age have moved out and they're not coming back. If I leave, I'm not going 50 miles, I'm going 500 miles because I will not watch this coast die twice.''
 ''It's shameful,'' Mr. Cheramie said from his front porch looking out to Bayou Lafourche, smooth as brown glass until a trawler chugs along making gentle waves. ''Look how beautiful.''
 A few minutes farther down the road, as one reaches Leeville, the reality of land loss is unmistakable. Tombs from the old cemetery pop above water at odd angles, a macabre reminder that the dead were buried in land that is not there anymore.
 One can also see it in the so-called ghost trees that line Highway 1, the remains of grand oaks that drowned as the bayou expanded and became saltier. 
 It can be heard in the anguished stories of shrimpers whose numbers are dwindling in the face of high fuel costs and foreign competition. (Louisiana shrimp can be hard to find even in Louisiana. The back of a bag of ''New Orleans Style Shrimp'' at a local supermarket reveals that the provenance is Thailand.) Land loss exacerbates the problem.
 ''We're overwhelmed with foreign shrimp because there's a ton of countries putting shrimp out there so cheap, there's really no demand for our shrimp, specifically,'' said Ricky Polkey, a shrimper.
 ''The land being gone the way it is, it makes our season shorter,'' he added. ''The shrimp size has been very small because they don't have a place to hide, where they would hold up and grow in the marshes before going out to the gulf. It seems we work all year for less than a dollar a pound.'' 
 But while some of the bayou struggles, one place is thriving.
 Port Fourchon rises on the horizon south of Leeville, a cluster of sport fishing camps in a gated community and the huge docks that are the base for the oil and gas industry's offshore drilling operations. Port Fourchon is mostly a recent creation of industry and sportsmen. It did not exist in the W.P.A. guide. 
 Now, close to 20 percent of the nation's fuel -- in excess of $63 billion by some estimates -- passes through Port Fourchon from deep-water gulf wells. It is the bayou's boom town.
 Mr. Polkey plans to go there if he has to give up shrimping. Mr. Brunet's granddaughter is already there, serving Cajun food to the yachting crowd.
 Just a little farther down the road, the W.P.A. tour picks up again at Grand Isle -- the last stop -- a swashbuckling little island across a bridge from the mainland. One can meet residents mixing daiquiris and claiming to be the descendants of notorious old pirates, vowing never to leave no matter how much the land falls into the sea. 
 The W.P.A. guide notes that the bell of Our Lady of Grand Isle Church was said to be cast of pirate loot, and that many of the inhabitants ''live in frame houses erected by their adventurous forefathers more than a century ago.'' The old houses are gone, casualties of the hurricanes, but the old ethos remains. 
 Frank Besson, a Cajun who said that his great-great-great-grandfather was a pirate with the band led by Pierre and Jean Lafitte, sums up the area's attitude: ''If they got a little puddle of sand left,'' he said, ''I'm staying put.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Louisiana shrimpers say coastal erosion has hurt their industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Residents of Grand Isle, La., across a bridge from the mainland, claim to be the descendants of pirates and vow never to leave.
 As salt water pushes inland, the marshlands of southeastern Louisiana are sinking into the Gulf of Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) MAP: GOLDEN MEADOW, LOUISIANA 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COASTAL AREAS (86%); RIVERS (78%); EROSION (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); FAMILY (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (76%); MARINE BIOLOGY (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



614 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA TALK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Can Hollywood Help LinkedIn?

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
As LinkedIn struggles to remain relevant in an ever more socially networked world, the Internet company has found a constituency that might need its help. 
 The economy everywhere is no picnic, but the situation in Hollywood has been made worse by a screenwriters' strike, a threatened actors' strike and the shuttering of several independent film companies. More layoffs are likely, particularly at Paramount, which must decide what to do with its DreamWorks unit once Steven Spielberg decamps.
 Enter LinkedIn. The company bills itself as ''the world's largest and most powerful business network'' but is known to most people as the Web site they begrudgingly visit every few months to approve be-my-contact invitations. Could Hollywood's woes represent an opportunity for LinkedIn to woo new followers?
 ''Because so many people are looking for work, entertainment is an area that's ripe for people to be ambitious and entrepreneurial,'' said Rob Getzschman, LinkedIn's entertainment market manager.
 Mr. Getzschman lectured about LinkedIn at the Los Angeles Film Festival; on Thursday a LinkedIn representative will speak to indie filmmakers at a Film Independent workshop, also in Los Angeles. Engagements at the Screen Actors Guild and the Writers Guild of America are also planned. LinkedIn has one happy customer. Robert Margouleff, a producer of Stevie Wonder albums, lost a big sound-mixing client. After attending a LinkedIn event, he used the network to find sponsors for a documentary and to meet a National Geographic executive. BROOKS BARNES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); FESTIVALS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); STRIKES (72%); WRITERS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



615 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: Drilling Boom Revives Hopes For Natural Gas

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
American natural gas production is rising at a clip not seen in half a century, pushing down prices of the fuel and reversing conventional wisdom that domestic gas fields were in irreversible decline.
 The new drilling boom uses advanced technology to release gas trapped in huge shale beds found throughout North America -- gas long believed to be out of reach. Natural gas is the cleanest fossil fuel, releasing less of the emissions that cause global warming than coal or oil.
 Rising production of natural gas has significant long-range implications for American consumers and businesses. A sustained increase in gas supplies over the next decade could slow the rise of utility bills, obviate the need to import gas and make energy-intensive industries more competitive.
 While the recent production increase is indisputable, not everyone is convinced the additional supplies can last for decades. ''The jury is still out how big shale is going to be,'' said Robert Ineson, a natural gas analyst at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm. 
 Still, many people in the natural-gas industry believe a new era is at hand, and a rising chorus of Wall Street analysts and Congressional lawmakers supports that notion. Competition among companies for rights to the new gas has set off a frenzy of leasing and drilling.
 ''It's almost divine intervention,'' said Aubrey K. McClendon, chairman and chief executive of the Chesapeake Energy Corporation, one of the nation's largest natural gas producers. ''Right at the time oil prices are skyrocketing, we're struggling with the economy, we're concerned about global warming, and national security threats remain intense, we wake up and we've got this abundance of natural gas around us.''
 Senior Democrats in Congress are getting behind natural gas, portraying it as an alternative fuel for transportation that can serve as a stopgap until renewable sources of energy, like solar and wind power, become economical on a broad scale.
 ''You can have a transition with natural gas that is cheap, abundant and clean,'' the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, said Sunday on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC.
 She also said that an investment she and her husband had made in a company that produces natural gas for use in automobiles, revealed last week by The Wall Street Journal, was not a conflict of interest because ''I'm investing in something I believe in.''
 Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, the chairman of the House Democratic caucus, has introduced legislation to offer more tax credits to producers and consumers of natural gas and mandate the installation of natural gas pumps in some service stations.
 Domestic gas production was up 8.8 percent in the first five months of this year compared with the period a year earlier, a rate of increase last seen in 1959, during the great drilling boom that followed World War II.
 Most of the gain is coming from shale, particularly the Barnett Shale region around Fort Worth, which has been under development for several years. The increase in gas production stands in sharp contrast to the trend in domestic oil production, which has been declining steadily since 1970 and dropped 21 percent in the last decade alone.
 The Barnett region proved that, using new technology, shale gas could be extracted on a large scale. But lately, companies have set their sights on shale formations that could produce far more gas than the Barnett.
 Testing to determine the productivity of fields has been completed on just a tiny fraction of the potential acreage. According to a new report by Navigant Consulting, paid for by a foundation allied with the gas industry, there could be as much as 842 trillion cubic feet of retrievable gas in shales around the country, enough to supply about 40 years' worth of natural gas, at today's consumption rate. But thousands of wells need to be drilled before the exact reserves will be known.
 Domestic natural gas prices have already plunged 42 percent since early July, an even faster drop in price than oil or most other commodities, in part because the rapid supply growth has begun to influence the market. Price spikes remain possible, of course, but throughout the industry the shale discoveries are causing a shift in thinking about the long-term outlook.
 Black or brown shales are a type of sedimentary rock, high in organic matter, found beneath millions of acres in at least 23 states, including New York. The rock has been known for more than a century to contain gas, but it was considered virtually worthless until a decade ago because typical wells on such sites would produce gas briefly and then die. 
 Now, companies are drilling long, horizontal wells and pumping in water to fracture the rock, releasing vastly more gas than could the vertical wells of old.
 The Barnett was the first shale field to undergo major development, and gas production has gone up tenfold since 2001, so that it now produces 7 percent of the nation's supply of natural gas. At least two other shale formations, the Haynesville in Louisiana and Texas and the Marcellus in Appalachia, are believed to be even larger, though substantial production in those will take another two to five years. 
 Prospectors have identified at least two dozen shale beds in North America that could contain large amounts of gas.
 ''Production is clearly growing, and the growth is sustainable,'' said Michael Zenker, a natural gas analyst at Barclays Capital. 
 A Deutsche Bank report, by the analyst Shannon Nome, recently estimated that production from the eight largest shale fields was likely to hit 6.6 billion cubic feet a day this year, or 11.8 percent of national gas production, and then rise to 14.5 billion cubic feet a day by 2011 -- almost a quarter of domestic production. 
 ''Shale is the most significant domestic natural gas find in 50 years,'' said Chris Ruppel, an analyst at the institutional brokerage firm Execution, ''which means the United States will become gas independent, and more industrially competitive versus Europe for gas-intensive industries such as chemicals, fertilizer, smelting iron and aluminum.''
 Shale gas could ultimately be important beyond North America. The rest of the world has shale formations on an immense scale. Many of them are known to contain gas, but exploration and assessment of those fields with the new production techniques have barely started.
 Several large shale fields are being explored in Canada. In the United States, real estate speculators are becoming overnight millionaires in Pennsylvania, Louisiana and Texas by buying up parcels of land and flipping them to companies that drill for natural gas. Wildcatters are ordering every rig they can get their hands on, and paying signing bonuses of $25,000 an acre to drill below houses, schools and churches. Pipeline companies are building as fast as they can to get the new gas to market.
 As the frenzy unfolds, some energy experts urge caution in projecting how big the new supplies will be and whether they will alleviate the loss in productivity of conventional wells, particularly those in the Gulf of Mexico.
 ''It's hard for me to believe we will have more domestic gas production in six years than we have now,'' said Chip Johnson, president and chief executive of Carrizo Oil and Gas, a Houston company involved in several of the shale fields.
 The Energy Department's 2008 estimates for shale gas reserves that may one day be economically produced stand at 125 trillion cubic feet, about a seventh of the most optimistic industry estimates. Jeffrey Little, a department gas analyst, said the government estimate was based on 2006 data and could increase after further testing.
 ''The larger reserves could very well be out there, but their magnitude is uncertain,'' he said. 
 Some industry experts warn that shortages of engineers and rigs, scarcity of pipelines near some shale fields and fights over land and water use could slow development in some states. 
 In the Marcellus field, drilling and pipeline work must be done over woody and hilly terrain, and enormous amounts of water are needed to fracture the shale. Drilling has been halted in places after local regulators caught companies drawing water from streams without permits.
 ''We see natural gas as potentially a very important transitional fuel, but we can't use it at the expense of our natural resources,'' said Kate Sinding, a senior lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council, who warned that water-intensive drilling in shale could threaten local water supplies and aquifers.
 Domestic gas production was in decline from the early 1990s to 2005, before production from shale beds and some lesser unconventional fields led to increases beginning in 2006. In the meantime, consumption increased by more than 15 percent, satisfied largely by rising imports.
 Prices in recent years soared from less than $2 per thousand cubic feet in 1999 to more than $13 as recently as last month, before a precipitous decline in recent weeks. Natural gas closed Friday on the New York Mercantile Exchange at $7.84 per thousand cubic feet, the lowest price since Feb. 1. 
 With the growth of power generation from natural gas, the Energy Department estimates that gas consumption will increase 3 percent this year and an additional 1.7 percent in 2009. But that is well below expected supply increases.
 Such increases carry risks. Some in the gas industry fear that if prices fall too much, producers will pull back on their investments in drilling and development. ''If prices drop much more,'' said Mr. Johnson of Carrizo Oil and Gas, ''producers will slow down or at least not be as aggressive.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: TAPPING INTO SHALE: High prices for natural gas and new technology have allowed companies to tap shale gas, making it the fastest-rising source of new production. (Source: Navigant Consulting, via Cleanskies.org) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); BIOFUELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); SOLAR ENERGY (74%); WIND ENERGY (74%); NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); CAUCUSES (66%); TAX LAW (66%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (66%); POLITICS (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORP (91%); IHS INC (69%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: CHK (NYSE) (91%); IHS (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (50%); RAHM EMANUEL (50%); AUBREY K MCCLENDON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



616 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1495 words

PERSON: John Russell, 

HEADLINE: John Russell, Art Critic For The Times, Dies at 89

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
John Russell, who contributed elegant, erudite art criticism for more than a half-century to The Sunday Times of London and The New York Times, where he was chief art critic from 1982 to 1990, and who helped bring a generation of postwar British artists to international attention, died on Saturday. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan.
His wife, Rosamond Bernier, said he died at a hospice in the Bronx.
Mr. Russell, an Englishman, joined The New York Times in the mid-1970s after contributing occasional reviews from London. He won a devoted readership for his literate style, his capacity for passionate appreciation and the breadth of his interests. ''Reading Russell,'' a collection of his journalism published in 1989, included essays on Pushkin, Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau, Beatrix Potter, the many meanings of luggage and the beauties of the Merritt Parkway in Connecticut. 
Most of his prodigious output was devoted to art, notably his monographs on Seurat, Francis Bacon, Henry Moore, Max Ernst and the multivolume series ''The Meanings of Modern Art.'' But he also produced travel books on Switzerland, London and Paris, a biography of the conductor Erich Kleiber and several highly regarded translations of modern French novelists.
''Working for The New York Times, I found myself writing about art, as had already been agreed,'' he wrote in the book's introduction. ''But I also found myself writing about the centenary of Dr. Albert Schweitzer, the bicentenary of the Battle of Lexington, the special properties of the color green, and the fact that wisteria rhymes with hysteria.''
In 1984 editors at the newspaper sent Mr. Russell to offer a different perspective on the Republican and Democratic national conventions.
Effortless, high-volume production was his hallmark. Strolling into the old Times building on West 43rd Street in Manhattan, attired in a boldly checked jacket and violently contrasting red socks, he would say a few hellos to colleagues sweating over deadlines, lightly apply his fingers to the keyboard and rise, perhaps an hour later, having composed a feature-length article with not a word out of place.
By temperament an old-fashioned man of letters, Mr. Russell was an appreciator who liked to share his enthusiasms; as a consequence some readers and fellow critics found him too genteel.
''I do not see my role as primarily punitive,'' he wrote in ''Reading Russell.'' ''There are artists whose work I dread to see yet again, dance-dramas that in my view have set back the American psyche several hundred years, composers whose names drive me from the concert hall, authors whose books I shall never willingly reopen. But it has never seemed to me much of an ambition to go though life snarling and spewing.''
John Russell was born in 1919 in Fleet, near London. He was reared by his grandparents in Strawberry Hill, a London suburb, and attended St. Paul's School in London. There, he recalled, he impressed his headmaster, who, befuddled by the term ''Surrealism,'' asked a classroom of students if anyone could explain it. The future art critic raised his hand, went off to write an essay and, after handing it in, was told the next day, ''Russell, you can make a living doing this.''
After studying philosophy, politics and economics at Magdalen College, Oxford, Mr. Russell began working as an unpaid intern at the Tate Gallery in 1940. Soon after he started, the Germans bombed the museum. Museum employees were relocated to Worcestershire, where Mr. Russell wrote his first book, ''Shakespeare's Country,'' at the age of 23. In 1944 he published his first art book, ''British Portrait Painters.''
During the war Mr. Russell worked for the Naval Intelligence division of the Admiralty. He also began writing for Peter Quennell's Cornhill Magazine and Cyril Connolly's Horizon, encouraged by the eccentric American man of letters Logan Pearsall Smith, whose sharp eye for rising talent had already spotted the art historian Kenneth Clark and the historian Hugh Trevor-Roper. Mr. Russell, he wrote to a friend, ''is a most accomplished journalist, but I think will turn out a fine critic as well.''
And so he did. Ian Fleming, who had also served in Naval Intelligence, put in the good word to the editors of The Sunday Times of London, and Mr. Russell began reviewing books, plays and musical performances.
In 1945 he married Alexandrine Apponyi. The marriage ended in divorce in 1950. Their daughter, Lavinia Grimshaw of London, survives him, along with Ms. Bernier, two grandchildren and a great-grandson. A second marriage, to Vera Poliakoff, also ended in divorce, in 1971.
In 1950 Mr. Russell was pressed into service as art critic for The Sunday Times after the incumbent was summarily fired for criticizing an exhibition at the Royal Academy.
It was a pivotal moment for British art, one that Mr. Russell influenced in several ways. Unusually open to new talent, he threw his considerable weight behind emerging artists like Francis Bacon, Lucian Freud, Howard Hodgkin, R. B. Kitaj and Bridget Riley, not only in the pages of The Sunday Times but also in prefaces to exhibition catalogs.
''When I first began writing, my aims as a critic were simple,'' he told The Art Newspaper in 1999. ''I wanted to persuade people to go and see things that I myself liked.''
The art historian John Richardson said that Mr. Russell ''did a huge amount for English art at the time,'' adding, ''He helped English art climb out of its pre-1939 provincialism and put it on the map.''
A reflection of his taste and influence can be seen in the book ''Private View,'' a comprehensive survey of the British scene in the mid-1960s, written with Bryan Robertson and featuring photographs by Lord Snowdon.
In addition to promoting new British art, Mr. Russell organized exhibitions devoted to Modigliani, Rouault and Balthus at the Tate, and, with Suzi Gablik, a survey of Pop Art at the Hayward Gallery in London.
In 1974 Mr. Russell was brought to New York by Hilton Kramer, chief art critic of The New York Times. The invitation could not have been more opportune. Mr. Russell was eager to join Ms. Bernier, whom he had first met, and been smitten by, in the mid-1950s when she commissioned him to write for L'Oeil, the Paris-based arts magazine she founded with Georges Bernier, her husband at the time. For years he worshiped from afar. After she and her husband separated, the distance narrowed, and in 1975 the two married.
The wedding was a lavish production. Held in Philip Johnson's Glass House in New Canaan, Conn., it was attended by the likes of Aaron Copland, Pierre Matisse and Stephen Spender and set to music composed for the occasion by Leonard Bernstein. At the time Ms. Bernier was well on her way to establishing a new career as a writer and as a lecturer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
At The Times Mr. Russell's fluent, generally laudatory reviews offered a stark contrast to Mr. Kramer's more combative style.
''He was never mean-spirited, dismissive or brutal,'' Mr. Richardson said of Mr. Russell, recalling a deft instance in London in which Mr. Russell was called upon to review the work of a well-born but talentless English painter. ''He got around it by saying, 'We have all wondered what the painting of Charles Ryder in ''Brideshead Revisited'' might have looked like, and now we know with absolute precision.' ''
At his best Mr. Russell exhibited sinew and vigor in his appraisals. The art that mattered to him mattered in a highly personal way, and there was something almost tactile in the way he traced the contours of an artist like Bacon or Freud.
''Bacon wrenched, reversed, abbreviated, jellified and generally reinvented the human image,'' he wrote in a characteristic passage in ''Francis Bacon,'' a monograph first published in 1971. ''The paint-structure was by turns brusque and sumptuous, lyrical and offhand, pulpy and marmoreal. Swerving, pouncing, colliding with itself, taking for granted the most bizarre conjunctions of impulse, it produced a multiple imagery which was quite new in painting.''
If cornered, Mr. Russell could draw his sword and use it to lethal effect. His review of a show by the sculptor Beverly Pepper in 1987 remains a model of take-no-prisoners criticism. ''In its cumulative effect this may well, in fact, be one of the most debilitating, hyped-up and deeply offensive exhibitions of the postwar era,'' he wrote in The Times. ''This is not because the work is 'bad,' but because it does not reach that level of achievement at which the words 'bad' and 'good' have any meaning.''
The slashing attack, however, he generally left to others. Art, for him, remained a glorious love affair and a lifelong adventure. ''When art is made new, we are made new with it,'' he wrote in the first volume of ''The Meanings of Modern Art.'' ''We have a sense of solidarity with our own time, and of psychic energies shared and redoubled, which is just about the most satisfying thing that life has to offer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Russell and his wife, the lecturer Rosamond Bernier. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL CUNNINGHAM, 1988) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); WRITERS (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); HOSPICE (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (65%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (70%)

CATEGORY: Art

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



617 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3448 words

HEADLINE: In Nuclear Net's Undoing, A Web of Shadowy Deals

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD and DAVID E. SANGER; Souad Mekhennet contributed reporting from Frankfurt, and Uta Harnischfeger from Zurich.

 BODY:
The president of Switzerland stepped to a podium in Bern last May and read a statement confirming rumors that had swirled through the capital for months. The government, he acknowledged, had indeed destroyed a huge trove of computer files and other material documenting the business dealings of a family of Swiss engineers suspected of helping smuggle nuclear technology to Libya and Iran. 
 The files were of particular interest not only to Swiss prosecutors but to international atomic inspectors working to unwind the activities of Abdul Qadeer Khan, the Pakistani bomb pioneer-turned-nuclear black marketeer. The Swiss engineers, Friedrich Tinner and his two sons, were accused of having deep associations with Dr. Khan, acting as middlemen in his dealings with rogue nations seeking nuclear equipment and expertise.
 The Swiss president, Pascal Couchepin, took no questions. But he asserted that the files -- which included an array of plans for nuclear arms and technologies, among them a highly sophisticated Pakistani bomb design -- had been destroyed so that they would never fall into terrorist hands. 
 Behind that official explanation, though, is a far more intriguing tale of spies, moles and the compromises that governments make in the name of national security. 
 The United States had urged that the files be destroyed, according to interviews with five current and former Bush administration officials. The purpose, the officials said, was less to thwart terrorists than to hide evidence of a clandestine relationship between the Tinners and the C.I.A.
 Over four years, several of these officials said, operatives of the C.I.A. paid the Tinners as much as $10 million, some of it delivered in a suitcase stuffed with cash. In return, the Tinners delivered a flow of secret information that helped end Libya's bomb program, reveal Iran's atomic labors and, ultimately, undo Dr. Khan's nuclear black market.
 In addition, American and European officials said, the Tinners played an important role in a clandestine American operation to funnel sabotaged nuclear equipment to Libya and Iran, a major but little-known element of the efforts to slow their nuclear progress. 
 The relationship with the Tinners ''was very significant,'' said Gary S. Samore, who ran the National Security Council's nonproliferation office when the operation began. ''That's where we got the first indications that Iran had acquired centrifuges,'' which enrich uranium for nuclear fuel. 
 Yet even as American officials describe the relationship as a major intelligence coup, compromises were made. Officials say the C.I.A. feared that a trial would not just reveal the Tinners' relationship with the United States -- and perhaps raise questions about American dealings with atomic smugglers -- but would also imperil efforts to recruit new spies at a time of grave concern over Iran's nuclear program. Destruction of the files, C.I.A. officials suspected, would undermine the case and could set their informants free. 
 ''We were very happy they were destroyed,'' a senior intelligence official in Washington said of the files.
 But in Europe, there is much consternation. Analysts studying Dr. Khan's network worry that by destroying the files to prevent their spread, the Swiss government may have obscured the investigative trail. It is unclear who among Dr. Khan's customers -- a list that is known to include Iran, Libya and North Korea but that may extend further -- got the illicit material, much of it contained in easily transmitted electronic designs. 
 The West's most important questions about the Khan network have been consistently deflected by President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan, who resigned last Monday. He refused to account for the bomb designs that got away or to let American investigators question Dr. Khan, perhaps the only man to know who else received the atomic blueprints. President Bush, eager for Pakistan's aid against terrorism, never pressed Mr. Musharraf for answers.
 ''Maybe that labyrinth held clues to another client or another rogue state,'' said a European official angered at the destruction.
 The Swiss judge in charge of the Tinner case, Andreas Muller, is not terribly happy either. He said he had no warning of the planned destruction and is now trying to determine what, if anything, remains of the case against Friedrich Tinner and his sons, Urs and Marco. 
 Some details of the links between the Tinners and American intelligence have been revealed in news reports and in recent books, most notably ''The Nuclear Jihadist,'' a biography of Dr. Khan by Douglas Frantz and Catherine Collins. But recent interviews in the United States and Europe by The New York Times have provided a fuller portrait of the relationship -- especially the involvement of all three Tinners, the large amounts of money they received and the C.I.A.'s extensive efforts on their behalf. Virtually all the officials interviewed spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss matters that remain classified. 
 The destroyed evidence, decades of records of the Tinners' activities, included not only bomb and centrifuge plans but also documents linking the family to the C.I.A., officials said. One contract, a European intelligence official said, described a C.I.A. front company's agreement to pay the smugglers $1 million for black-market secrets. The front company listed an address three blocks from the White House.
 The C.I.A. declined to comment on the Tinner case, but a spokesman, Paul Gimigliano, called the disruption of Dr. Khan's network ''a genuine intelligence success.'' 
 With the evidence files destroyed and a trial in question, it is unlikely that the full story of the Tinners will be told any time soon. If it is, it is unlikely to come from the elder Mr. Tinner.
 Approached at his home in Haag, Switzerland, near the Liechtenstein border, Mr. Tinner, 71, was polite but firm in his silence. ''I have an agreement not to talk,'' he told a reporter.
 Beginning a Double Life
 An inventor and mechanical engineer, Friedrich Tinner got his start in Swiss companies that make vacuum technology, mazes of pipes, pumps and valves used in many industries. Mr. Tinner received United States patents for his innovative vacuum valves. 
 By definition, his devices were so-called dual-use products with peacetime or wartime applications. Governments often feel torn between promoting such goods as commercial boons and blocking them as security risks.
 As recounted in books and articles and reports by nuclear experts, Mr. Tinner worked with Dr. Khan for three decades, beginning in the mid-1970s. His expertise in vacuum technology aided Dr. Khan's development of atomic centrifuges, which produced fuel for Pakistan's nuclear arsenal, now variously estimated at 50 to 100 warheads.
 Yet while Mr. Tinner repeatedly drew the attention of European authorities, who questioned the export of potentially dangerous technology, he never faced charges. Mr. Tinner's involvement with Dr. Khan deepened beginning in the late 1990s, when, joined by his sons, he helped supply centrifuges for Libya's secret bomb program. 
 In 2000, American officials said, Urs Tinner was recruited by the C.I.A., and American officials were elated. Spy satellites can be fooled. Documents can lie. Electronic taps can mislead. But a well-placed mole can work quietly behind the scenes to get at the truth.
 For instance, the United States had gathered circumstantial evidence that Iran wanted an atom bomb. Suddenly it had a direct view into clandestine Iranian procurement of centrifuges and other important nuclear items.
 ''It was a confirmation,'' recalled Dr. Samore, the former national security official who is now director of studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''That was much more significant than Libya,'' because that country's atomic program was in its infancy whereas Iran's was rushing toward maturity.
 Despite considerable income from their illicit trade, the Tinners had money problems, a European intelligence official said. Eventually, Urs Tinner persuaded his father and younger brother to join him as moles, and they began double lives, supplying Dr. Khan with precision manufacturing gear and helping run a centrifuge plant in Malaysia even as their cooperation with the United States deepened.
 At the time, Washington was stepping up efforts to penetrate Libya's bomb program. In early 2003, the European official said, the Tinners and C.I.A. agents met at a hotel in Innsbruck, Austria, to discuss cooperative terms. Several months later, in Jenins, a Swiss mountain village, Marco Tinner signed a contract dated June 21, 2003, with two C.I.A. agents, the official said.
 The contract outlined the sale of rights that the Tinners held for manufacturing vacuum gear, and of proprietary information about the devices. In exchange, $1 million would be paid to Traco Group International, a front company Marco Tinner had established in Road Town, the capital of the British Virgin Islands, on the island of Tortola.
 In the contract, according to the European intelligence official, the two C.I.A. agents used cover names -- W. James Kinsman and Sean D. Mahaffey -- and identified their employer as Big Black River Technologies Inc. In military and intelligence work, ''black'' means clandestine. In the contract, Black River gave an address on I Street in Washington, the intelligence official said. But no business directory lists the company, and employees in the mailroom at the address said they had no records for a company of that name. 
 Four months after the signing of the contract, American and European authorities seized cargoes of centrifuge parts bound for Libya. ''The Tinners were a source,'' a former Bush administration official said. 
 Two other officials credited the Tinners with helping end the Libyan bomb program. In Libya, investigators found the rudiments of a centrifuge plant and a blueprint for a basic atom bomb, courtesy of Dr. Khan's network. The Bush administration celebrated Libya's abandonment as a breakthrough in arms control.
 But the secret lives of the Tinners began to unravel. The Malaysian police issued a report naming them as central members of Dr. Khan's network. An official of VP Bank Ltd., Traco's business agent in the Virgin Islands, said it ended that relationship in early 2004, when Marco Tinner was exposed.
 Under growing pressure, Dr. Khan confessed. His clients turned out to include not only Libya but Iran and North Korea, and his collaborators turned out to be legion.
 ''We will find you,'' Mr. Bush said in February 2004 of Dr. Khan's associates, ''and we're not going to rest until you are stopped.''
 Acts of Sabotage
 After the Tinners were arrested, Swiss and other European authorities began to scrutinize their confiscated files and to conduct wide inquiries. European investigators discovered not only that the Tinners had spied for Washington, but that the men and their insider information had helped the C.I.A. sabotage atomic gear bound for Libya and Iran. A former American official confirmed the disruptions, saying the technical architect of the operation was ''a mad-scientist type'' who took pleasure in devising dirty tricks.
 An American intelligence official, while refusing to discuss specifics of the sabotage operation or the Tinners' relationship with the C.I.A., said efforts to cripple equipment headed to rogue nuclear states ''buy us some time and space.'' With Iran presumably racing for the capability to build a bomb, he added, ''that may be the best we can hope for.''
 The sabotage first came to light, diplomats and officials said, when inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency traveled to Iran and Libya in 2003 and 2004 and discovered identical vacuum pumps that had been damaged cleverly so that they looked perfectly fine but failed to operate properly. They traced the route of the defective parts from Pfeiffer Vacuum in Germany to the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, the birthplace of the bomb. There, according to a European official who studied the case, nuclear experts had made sure the pumps ''wouldn't work.''
 A more serious disruption involved a power supply shipped to Iran from Turkey, where Dr. Khan's network did business with two makers of industrial control equipment. 
 The Iranians installed the power supply at their uranium enrichment plant at Natanz. But in early 2006, it failed, causing 50 centrifuges to explode -- a serious, if temporary, setback to Iran's efforts to master the manufacture of nuclear fuel, the hardest part of building a bomb. (Iran says its nuclear efforts are for electricity, not weapons.)
 Gholamreza Aghazadeh, the head of the Iranian Atomic Energy Organization, told a reporter last year that Iranian investigators found that the power supply had been manipulated.
 After the episode, he added, ''we checked all the imported instruments.''
 Discussions With Washington
 In 2005, Swiss authorities began asking the United States for help in the Tinner case. Among other things, they wanted information about the Libyan centrifuge program to press charges of criminal export violations. For more than a year, the Swiss made repeated requests. Washington ignored them. 
 ''Its lack of assistance needlessly complicates this important investigation,'' David Albright, of the Institute for Science and International Security, a private group in Washington, told Congress in May 2006. Mr. Albright said he had helped Swiss prosecutors write to the State Department. 
 The Swiss turned to the I.A.E.A. for help in assessing the Tinner cache. European officials said the agency was surprised to find multiple warhead plans and judged that most had originated in Pakistan. The country denied that Dr. Khan had access to nuclear weapon designs and questioned the agency's conclusions. 
 In late July 2007, according to Swiss federal statements, the justice minister, Christoph Blocher, flew to Washington for talks with Mike McConnell, the director of national intelligence; Alberto R. Gonzales, then the attorney general; and Robert S. Mueller III, the F.B.I. director.
 Officially, the statements said, the main topic was ''cooperation in the criminal prosecution of terrorist activities.'' But the real agenda was what to do about the Tinners.
 A former Bush administration official said different government agencies had differing views of the case. The State Department wanted the bomb plans destroyed as a way to stem nuclear proliferation, while the C.I.A. wanted to protect its methods for combating illicit nuclear trade.
 The C.I.A. also wanted to help the Tinners. ''If a key source is prosecuted,'' a former senior official involved in the case said, ''what message does that send when you try to recruit other informants?''
 American officials discussed a range of possible outcomes with the Swiss and expressed their clear preferences. The best result, they said, would be turning over the family's materials to the United States. Acceptable would be destroying them. Worst, according to the former administration official, would have been making them public in a criminal trial, where defense lawyers would have probably exposed as much American involvement as possible in hopes of getting their clients off the hook.
 A Furor Over Destroyed Files
 Last March, Mr. Muller became the examining magistrate in the Tinner case, charged with assessing if a trial was warranted. Soon after, he was quoted as saying the evidence files contained ''obvious holes.'' Sketchy reports of deleted computer files and shredded documents had been circulating, but he was the first identified official to hint at a widespread destruction. Then, on May 23, the Swiss president, Mr. Couchepin, revealed that Switzerland had begun a series of extraordinary actions just days after Mr. Blocher, the justice minister, returned from Washington.
 Swiss citizens are prohibited from aiding foreign spies. But in his statement, the president said that in late August 2007, the government canceled a criminal case against the Tinners for suspicions of aiding a foreign government. Though unmentioned, the C.I.A. seemed to peer out from his statement.
 On Nov. 14, his statement continued, the government decided to destroy ''the comprehensive holding of the electronic files and documents'' seized from the Tinners. The most dangerous items, the president said, included ''detailed construction plans for nuclear weapons, for gas ultracentrifuges for the enrichment of weapons-grade uranium, as well as for guided missile delivery systems.'' International atomic inspectors, he added, supervised the destruction.
 Mr. Couchepin said keeping the documents ''was incompatible with Switzerland's obligations'' under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and added, ''Under all circumstances, this information was not to reach the hands of a terrorist organization or an unauthorized state.''
 The statement provoked a political furor. Some politicians and columnists accused Switzerland of surrendering to Washington's agenda and violating Swiss neutrality. Among the strongest critics was Dick Marty, a prominent Swiss senator. ''We could have respected the treaty by avoiding their publication and putting them under lock and key,'' he was quoted as saying on Swissinfo, the Web site of the Swiss Broadcasting Corporation. Destroying them, he added, '' could lead to the collapse of the legal case.''
 Many European officials dismissed the government's arguments about terrorists and rogue states as empty.
 ''If they had kept the material in federal possession for years, why not keep holding it?'' asked Victor Mauer, a senior official at the Center for Security Studies of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology. ''Their explanation is not convincing.''
 An Action's Repercussions
 In an interview, a senior European diplomat familiar with the I.A.E.A. said the destruction could have repercussions far beyond the criminal case.
 For one thing, he said, the international atomic agency had been allowed to examine only parts of the archive. He called it ''a good sample'' and judged that the agency had missed no significant clues. Even so, he said, the agency might ''come to regret'' its inability to examine the materials further for insights into hidden remnants of Dr. Khan's network.
 And while the Swiss president made much of the proliferation danger, the diplomat insisted that the warhead designs were in many respects sketchy and incomplete. ''These are almost like studies -- bits and pieces,'' he said, adding that they ''wouldn't be enough to let you build a replica.''
 So while they might have little or no value for a terrorist with no atomic experience, the plans might prove quite helpful for an ambitious state intent on building a nuclear arsenal. He said the agency had no evidence that Iran had acquired the bomb plans.
 The diplomat added that the Swiss had ''lots of possibilities'' other than destruction. He said they had no legal obligation to destroy the files under the nonproliferation treaty, and could have put them under I.A.E.A. seal in Vienna or Switzerland.
 Several European officials speculated that Washington might actually have kept secret copies of the archive. A senior American official said the United States had reviewed the material but declined to say if there were copies. 
 As for the Tinners, the father was released in 2006, pending legal action. In a brief interview at his home, Mr. Tinner pleaded ignorance about basic aspects of the criminal case, such as where the authorities kept the materials that had belonged to him and his sons. ''The newspapers know more about these things than I do,'' he insisted.
 Should the case fall apart, the Tinners would join a growing list of freed associates of Dr. Khan. In June, Malaysia released the network's chief operating officer, B. S. A. Tahir, saying he was no longer a national security threat. The authorities have kept the Tinner brothers in jail for fear that they might flee the country. In late May, a Swiss court rejected their bail application, and early this month, the ruling was upheld. But the judges also told the authorities that they could not hold the brothers indefinitely without charging them.
 With much of the evidence gone, the magistrate, Mr. Muller, expressed frustration at finding ''no answers to the really interesting questions in this case.'' He declined to predict how it might turn out. 
 ''At the moment,'' he said, ''it is impossible to make any schedule, since the case is in many aspects extraordinary.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Centrifuge casings, removed from Libya, in Oak Ridge, Tenn., in 2004. Some officials credited the Tinners with helping end Libya's bomb program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Friedrich Tinner's home in Haag, Switzerland. Mr. Tinner and his sons, Urs, right, and Marco, were said to have had ties to the C.I.A. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM J. BROAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
POLIS DIRAJA MALAYSIA)
 Abdul Qadeer Khan, a Pakistani bomb pioneer turned black marketeer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIAN KHURSHEED/REUTERS) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL ACCESSORIES (77%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (77%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (76%); EVIDENCE (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); TERRORISM (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); CENTRIFUGES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERN, SWITZERLAND (92%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); SWITZERLAND (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



618 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 191 words

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
SIGNALS ON THE ECONOMY Reports this week will provide updates on the state of the housing market and the broader economy. 
 They will include existing-home sales for July (Monday); the Case-Shiller home price index for June, new-home sales for July, the Conference Board consumer confidence index for August and the minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee's Aug. 5 meeting (Tuesday); durable goods for July (Wednesday); the first revision of second-quarter gross domestic product (Thursday); and personal income and spending for July, the Chicago purchasing managers index for August and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey (Friday).
 EARNINGS REPORTS Canadian banks will headline the earnings calendar this week, with reports coming from the Bank of Montreal and the Bank of Nova Scotia (Tuesday); the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (Wednesday); and the Royal Bank of Canada and the Toronto-Dominion Bank (Thursday).
 Other reports will come from Borders (Tuesday); American Eagle Outfitters and TiVo (Wednesday); and Del Monte Foods, Dell, H&R Block, Novell, Sears Holdings, Tiffany and Williams Sonoma (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (72%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (83%); CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (83%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (83%); BANK OF MONTREAL (83%); TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (69%); NOVELL INC (55%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (55%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (55%); DEL MONTE FOODS CO (55%); H & R BLOCK INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: BNS (TSX) (83%); BNS (NYSE) (83%); CM (TSX) (83%); CM (NYSE) (83%); RY (TSX) (83%); RY (SWX) (83%); RY (NYSE) (83%); BMO (TSX) (83%); BMO (NYSE) (83%); TD (TSX) (69%); TD (NYSE) (69%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (55%); AEO (NYSE) (55%); HRB (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (83%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (83%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (55%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (55%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (55%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (55%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (55%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (55%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (55%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (68%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (53%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



619 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1891 words

HEADLINE: On TV, Timing Is Everything at the Olympics

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
In mid-2005, Dick Ebersol, the chairman of NBC Sports, had secured the support of the International Olympic Committee for the critical move of the finals of the key television sports of swimming and gymnastics to morning hours in China so they could be shown live in prime time in the United States. But he had one more person he needed to consult: Michael Phelps.
 ''Michael was the first outsider I talked to about it,'' Mr. Ebersol said in an interview from Beijing, where he wrapped up NBC's coverage of the Games Sunday. He said he wanted to make sure that competing in the morning would not harm the performance of the likely American star of the Games.
 Mr. Ebersol had already developed a close relationship with the swimmer, so much so that Mr. Phelps and his mother had attended the funeral of his young son Teddy after a plane crash that also seriously injured Mr. Ebersol. Competing in the morning, Mr. Phelps said, was no problem. 
 ''He told me: 'My only real goal is to leave the sport bigger and better than I found it,' '' Mr. Ebersol said.
 Getting American stars like Mr. Phelps and the gymnast Shawn Johnson to perform live in prime time was just one of the moves and unexpected breaks, some going back almost a decade, that set up the spectacular success NBC achieved in the Beijing Games that ended Sunday night. It was a success represented by record viewer totals of more than 200 million people, a surge in ad sales that guaranteed a profit of more than $100 million, and probably the best word of mouth about any Olympics coverage in a generation. 
 As a result, NBC was able to turn the Beijing Games with all their potential liabilities -- time differences, pollution and potential political upheaval -- into a triumph for the network.
 ''Everything is fraught with risk,'' Mr. Ebersol said, adding that the prospects for Beijing did not look very bright as recently as five months ago. ''At that point I was sure we'd lose money.'' The economy was bad; advertisers were tightening budgets; a lot of NBC's Olympic ad time was going unsold.
 Then as the Games neared, ad sales picked up -- and, after the Games started off so well, they exploded. Mr. Ebersol said that in the end it may have been NBC's good fortune that the country was going through some tough times.
 ''The economy was so dark,'' Mr. Ebersol said. ''But with $4 a gallon gas, more people were staying home. Many fewer were taking vacations.'' 
 That made people both more available and more susceptible to the pull of the Olympics. 
 ''When these Games came along, it was really at a point where the country was just ready for something they could really get crazy about,'' he said.
 Switching swimming and gymnastics to prime time was not the biggest scheduling coup Mr. Ebersol helped pull off. Long before that, during the Games in Sydney, Mr. Ebersol played the central role in a move to alter the weeks when the Beijing Games would be held. 
 By the summer of 2000, NBC already possessed the rights to the Winter and Summer Games through 2008. The network had made a deal in 1995 to secure them all even before the Games were awarded to any cities -- a notion Mr. Ebersol sold effectively to the I.O.C. as a better way to go than having the cities make plans without knowing how much they were going to acquire in TV rights.
 But the Sydney Games, which took place in late September, were not doing especially well in the ratings. Juan Antonio Samaranch, then the I.O.C. president, left Sydney after the first day because of the death of his wife. When he returned, Mr. Ebersol related, he visited the NBC broadcast center and observed that the ratings were not what NBC had hoped. He asked Mr. Ebersol if there was anything he could do to help.
 ''Not for these Games,'' Mr. Ebersol said he told him. But he wanted to plant another thought. ''I believed China was going to win the bid for 2008,'' he said. And he had heard that China planned to bid based on dates similar to Sydney. He asked Mr. Samaranch if China could move the dates of its bid four weeks back into August.
 ''If you're into September, you're going to lose a big percentage of your male viewers,'' Mr. Ebersol said. ''There's N.F.L. coverage on Sundays and Mondays, and college football is now on four or five nights a week. All of that goes away if you start in mid-August.''
 Also, he said, moving the dates back meant bringing in children who would be in school a month later and thus not allowed to stay up late to see American stars like Nastia Liukin on the balance beam. ''The Olympics are about the last event that gets the whole family viewing together,'' Mr. Ebersol said.
 Mr. Samaranch listened to the arguments carefully. ''Forty-eight hours later, when the Chinese made their official bid, the dates were in mid-August,'' Mr. Ebersol said. As it turned out, even those dates did not hold. Once the tennis federation heard mid-August, it suggested a move back another week -- or else Rafael Nadal, Roger Federer, the Williams sisters and every other tennis star would skip the Games to play in the United States Open.
 China made a move again, Mr. Ebersol said, setting up the start date of 8/8/08, which received so much attention for the mystical importance that the Chinese attach to the number 8. 
 ''But that's not really why the Olympics started then,'' Mr. Ebersol said.
 In both cases when NBC's desires were accommodated, ''no money changed hands,'' Mr. Ebersol said. The $894 million that NBC paid for the American television rights was already in a Chinese bank, Mr. Ebersol noted. But the I.O.C. has an intense interest in assuring that its American TV partner has a success with the Games, he said, because American television money accounts for more cash for the I.O.C. than all the world's other broadcasters combined. (By contrast, he said China paid $17 million for its television rights, while selling $400 million worth of ads.)
 Mr. Ebersol also made a very early decision to use Mr. Phelps -- and his mother -- as the centerpiece of NBC's marketing. The first promotions for Beijing focused on Mr. Phelps's relationship with his mother and played during NBC's coverage of the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. The network followed that the same day with another promotion featuring Mr. Phelps and his dog, Herman, placing it in the network's coverage of the National Dog Show, which followed the parade.
 ''That's our biggest family viewing day of the year, with the parade and the dog show,'' Mr. Ebersol said.
 In April 2007, Mr. Phelps was even more directly involved in NBC's marketing effort. For the first time NBC decided to stage an Olympic upfront -- a special sales presentation for advertisers in advance of an event (as is done before every prime-time television season.) Mr. Ebersol invited Mr. Phelps to make an appearance to help woo the advertisers, which he did in a single day, so as not to miss any training. 
 ''He never asked for a dime,'' Mr. Ebersol said. 
 During the planning, Mr. Ebersol also acceded to a move pushed by members of his staff to cut way back on the now much-mocked athlete profiles, usually known as ''up close and personals,'' during which heart-tugging tales of overcoming handicaps and tragedy are often recounted. The overall number dropped from about 160 eight years ago to 80 in Athens and only about 60 this year. 
 ''I always loved them,'' Mr. Ebersol said. ''I sit there and cry at them. I might as well be part of that female demographic we're seeking.''
 The scheduling shift to prime time was very much a personal victory for Mr. Ebersol, who first broached it during a conversation with Jacques Rogge, the president of the International Olympic Committee, in the summer of 2001. Mr. Rogge, just named to the position, flew to the United States to speak with American Olympic officials, and on his way back to Europe made a stop at Mr. Ebersol's home on Martha's Vineyard.
 There, after giving Mr. Ebersol's sons a sailing lesson (Mr. Rogge was an Olympic sailor for Belgium), Mr. Rogge got a lesson in television programming. 
 ''We took a long walk around Edgartown,'' Mr. Ebersol said. On the walk, he explained how critical swimming and gymnastics were because they kicked off the competition and they were the sports of most appeal to the audience the Olympics counts on for success: women. Mr. Ebersol said that Mr. Rogge was sympathetic, but said he would do nothing that might harm the performance of the athletes.
 ''I pointed out that the swimmers are normally up at 5:30 a.m. to train, and in previous Olympics they had swum their heats in the morning,'' Mr. Ebersol said.
 Mr. Rogge eventually got the support of the swimming and gymnastics federations for the schedule. Many months later, long after Mr. Phelps was advised, the move was formally announced.
 Having Mr. Phelps on board with swimming for gold at 10 a.m. Beijing time gave Mr. Ebersol a formidable line of defense against anyone who suggested that the schedule tailored for American television would prove detrimental to the athletes -- and some Australian swimming officials did just that.
 ''Michael and his coach told them: 'Anyone who is among the best in the world should be able to swim any time of day,' '' Mr. Ebersol said. He added, ''It was really all about Australian television wanting to get swimming into their prime time.''
 The live events did ignite the American coverage this year with instant excitement, especially thanks to Mr. Phelps, who seemed to win a race every night, setting new world records in the process. More evidence, Mr. Ebersol said, that swimming in the morning proved no handicap was that 20 world records, as many as in the previous two Olympics combined, were set in the Beijing pool, some by the Australian team.
 Still, the scheduling that Mr. Ebersol used to enhance the Beijing Games may not work so well in four years when the Games are in London. (The Winter Games, in Vancouver in 2010, are ideally set up for live prime-time viewing.) Would the British stand for starting swimming finals at 1 a.m. local time?
 ''London is going to be different,'' he said. ''I have some ideas. I want to talk to some key advertisers to get a sense of where they think they're going to be in four years.''
 Mr. Ebersol also acknowledged that the rampaging growth of the Internet -- particularly broadband access -- would transform the medium over the next four years and that the advertising engine of the modern Olympics will be in for a radical overhaul. 
 The problem going forward, he said, is that commercials at the beginning of streamed videos and banner ads would never pay for the kind of coverage viewers expect from Olympic broadcasters. 
 ''We're like everybody else in the media,'' he said. ''We can't change analog dollars for digital pennies.''
 Still, he was hardly ready to predict that London would be the final stop on NBC's long Olympic journey. He said he expects NBC to be in the mix when the rights to the 2014 and 2016 Games are awarded about 14 months from now.
 Nor was Mr. Ebersol, who is 61, ready to pass the baton, despite rumors that he might see Beijing as the perfect time to go out at the top of his own game. 
 ''There is no way'' he would not be in both Vancouver and London, he said. ''My sanity in life is wrapped up in this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Phelps, who won eight gold medals in Beijing, told Dick Ebersol at NBC Sports that swimming earlier in the day would not hurt his performance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATALIE BEHRING/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Dick Ebersol of NBC negotiated with the Olympic committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERICK M. BROWN/GETTY IMAGES)(C1)
 Basketball star LeBron James and Craig Sager of NBC. American broadcasters contribute more to the I.O.C.'s budget than all others combined. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE SQUIRE/GETTY IMAGES)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); OLYMPICS (91%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); BUDGETS (69%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (96%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (96%)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (91%); LEBRON JAMES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



620 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: A Mystical Merger of Traditions, Past and Present

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

 BODY:
The difference between dance and dance! It never fails to amaze me how some complex and extensive pieces, involving plenty of sincerity, craft and impeccable sociopolitical intentions, leave my senses and mind nonetheless numb, as if nothing was happening onstage. Then along comes another performer in another work, and the merest detail -- a step, a shift of weight -- becomes galvanizing, intoxicating. 
 So it was often in the final two performances of Erasing Borders, the new festival of Indian dance. These took place in the Ailey Citigroup Theater, and it was too bad that the last half of Thursday's closing performance comprised the three dreariest works of the festival. 
 Contrasting shades of dreary, to be sure. MariaColacoDance's ''Sath Safed (Work in progress),'' about carpet weavers from Kashmir, mixing modern dance (lots) and traditional Indian Odissi (a smidgen), was a gray, tepidly predictable skein of all-female weight-taking and mutual supportiveness. 
 Ananya Dance Theater Company's ''Daak'' (or ''Call to Action''), intensely earnest and earnestly intense, mixed Indian and modern-dance styles in equal measure. The work claims to be ''an artistic response to historical and continuing land rights violations,'' from the ''native communities here in Minnesota to 'special economic zones' in West Bengal'' to the maquiladora assembly plants of Tijuana, Mexico. And certainly there was a great deal of suffering on show. This is the second in Ananya's ''trilogy on environmental justice,'' and I intend to avoid the other two.
 Sinha Danse's ''Quebasian Rhapsody,'' blending ballet, Bharatanatyam and modern dance, was strenuously energetic and projected little but its own tension. Roger Sinha, its choreographer and one of its two performers, has carefully selected a tempo and vocabulary that inexorably show how physically ill-suited he is to this kind of thing. This and the preceding two dances passed like a long dirge.
 Fortunately Wednesday's performance and the first half of Thursday's had rich compensations. And there was much to be learned. In a panel discussion on Wednesday one choreographer said that some of the movements in her works that had been assumed to be most influenced by modern dance were in fact the most traditional (''3,000 years old'').
 I had found two of the male dancers in the Rudrakshya troupe exaggeratedly effeminate, but a program note explained that the company's Odissi style has traditionally been performed by women only, and that its work ''Ardhanarishwara'' ''explores dimensions of the primordial androgyne.'' (The aspects that bothered me were not, I suspect, primordial.) 
 And Sudarshan Belsare, whom I, while watching, had decided was a woman, turns out, in the program, to be ''a trans performer,'' perpetuating the ''classical tradition of Stri-Vesham (female impersonation), where the target gender identity of a woman's psyche and body is the medium to communicate Nayaki Bhava (the voice of the female protagonist) in the traditional Bharatanatyam repertory.'' He is based in Boston, and his ''Carmine Bees'' solo, a tour de force, brought the house down. So yes: borders are being erased.
 If there was one step that haunts me most, it was when the three Rudrakshya men -- fastidious stylists -- each simply extended one foot along the floor. This didn't even involve a transfer of weight onto that foot, but they did it -- more than once -- as if it prompted a switch of balance throughout the body. The pelvis shifted emphatically from one side to another, the shoulders did too, and the head, neck and one raised arm realigned themselves accordingly. Then they brought the foot, and the whole body, straight back into the original position. A tiny thing, they made it an event of serious, sensuous consequence. 
 And there were many such events that these Rudrakshya men (from the east Indian state of Orissa), performing ''Ardhanarishwara'' with one woman under the aegis of the Nayikas Dance Theater of New York, made matter. (Their sustained balances!) No dancers throughout the festival showed more astonishing details of the fingering that is among Indian dance's most celebrated glories. 
 In some passages individual fingers were bent while others were straight, and another time each man brandished one hand with the thumb holding the little finger, while splaying the three central fingers and vibrating the middle and fourth fingers only. (Just try it -- it's not unlike the exercise pianists do to develop articulation in trills.)
 I was left of two minds. The three men's very stylishness seemed a somewhat pointed end in itself (the woman often seemed just a happy handmaid to these three virtuosos). Yet the elaborate, engrossing choreography, by Myna Mukherjee and Bichitrananda Swain, really did state an absorbing view of harmony within male-female and human-divine principles.
 In ''Carmine Bees'' Mr. Belsare was often overinsistent. Even so, his long solo dance was an extraordinary achievement, passing through many engrossing features of arm gesture, footwork, head movement, hand vibrations, always with some true sense of repose and at the same time with a gripping purposefulness from first to last. His solo, apparently based on aspects of the Buddhist goddess Kurukulla, addressed aspects of femininity (notably with gestures indicating breasts) but, driven by its own momentum, became a true act of transcendence and religious immersion. 
 Having loved Sampradaya Dance Creations in Tuesday's lunchtime recital at Chase Manhattan Plaza, I was delighted to see these Toronto dancers on Wednesday in another piece, ''Shunya,'' and to admire their integrity as an ensemble, their shared rhythmic acuity. The group's choreographer, Lata Pada, understands how to give an overall rhythmic shape to even this more experimentally modern piece. Contrasts abound (up-down, bent-straight, in-out), and energy accumulates. Later it was a surprise to hear her say that she had choreographed the work in silence, then spent three weeks working with her composer, Praveen D. Rao; music and dance felt tightly married.
 Also on Wednesday, Parul Shah danced a ''Chasing Shadows'' solo that brought the house down. Her sources are splendidly hybrid: contemporary dance, the Kathak technique of north India, the female temple-court artists of south India. They are, in fact, her subject. You could feel what her program note stated, ''the inner struggle of a woman who wants to move forward but cannot because her shadows are not only her past but the only identity she knows.''
 On Thursday Dr. Janaki Rangarajan's solo ''Ranganjali,'' also in Bharatanatyam style, an invocatory exercise in praise of Lord Shiva that combined pure dance (Nrtta) and expressive mime (Abhinaya), was another spellbinder, with multiple body parts, from eyes to feet, all actively engaged, playing separate parts in building to a crescendo. Stillness -- a sudden, seemingly unprepared but sustained balance -- is a central ingredient. Here, as in all the best forms of Indian dance, we feel many layers of being: past and present, action and stasis, self-sufficiency and outward communication, pride and humility. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Erasing Borders: The festival included ''Ardhanarishwara,'' a tribute to an androgynous deity, performed at the Ailey Citigroup Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); BALLET (78%); DANCERS (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); WOMEN (72%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (69%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (57%) MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (69%); INDIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



621 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Diary

 BODY:
DEAR DIARY:
 During these tough economic times, I was one of the many who did not survive the Bear Stearns merger with JPMorgan Chase. Packing up my office belongings was both backbreaking and heartbreaking. 
 After my final bags were packed, I headed to Third Avenue, the past five years of my work life in tow. An eagle-eyed cabdriver spotted me at the 47th Street bus stop and yelled out his window, asking if I wanted to take a cab instead of waiting for a bus. I held up one of my bags imprinted with the Bear Stearns logo, and shook my head no.
 The cabdriver, not skipping a beat, yelled out, ''It's on me.'' 
 So on my final commute home, my broken spirit got a much-needed lift up Third Avenue.
 Kathy Enders
 Dear Diary:
 As told by my grandmother on a dreary afternoon in my apartment in New York City:
 ''I remember it was your first day of kindergarten, and I thought it would be nice to get you an appropriate present to celebrate. I found a doll that was wearing a backpack and a baseball cap, and his arm was pointing outward away from his body.
 ''As a suburban grandmother I thought the doll was waving goodbye to his mother, as though he, too, were leaving for kindergarten.
 ''When I asked you what you thought the doll was doing, you surprised me by saying, 'He's trying to get a cab.' ''
 Sarah Nessen
 CHANGE
 Summer languor
 So endless
 Until an icy shiver
 Surprises in
 An August breeze.
 Constance Brock
 Dear Diary:
 I was standing on 42nd Street waiting for a friend from Brooklyn. As I patiently waited, leaning against a wall of a theater, a young couple with classic tourist garb -- cameras around their necks, fanny packs strapped to their waists -- walked past me eating ice cream that was rapidly melting all over them and the sidewalk. 
 All of a sudden, a middle-aged, dark-haired man dressed in a black suit came from the other direction and said, with a very stern face: ''Don't move. Stay right where you are.'' 
 My first thought was that he was an undercover police officer, but it did not appear as if the couple had done anything illegal. Everybody within hearing distance froze. 
 The man twisted around, dug in his bag for a moment, and finally found what he was looking for. He said, with a broad smile: ''Don't worry! I'm a native New Yorker. I've got napkins!'' 
 The tourists gladly accepted his wad of napkins with a quick burst of words in a foreign language that anyone would have been able to translate as, ''Thank you!''Katie Rosenblatt 
 Dear Diary:
 For four years, I rode the same subway to and from school in the Bronx, and over time I began to take notice of the regular commuters whose company I kept every morning at 7:30 and every afternoon at 4 on the B train.
 One such traveler always caught my eye, as he had a very unusual way of waiting for the train. He waited on the platform doing handstands, and when the train pulled into the station he would slowly plant his feet back on the ground, pick up his black leather satchel and step onto the train. He rarely sat and could sometimes be seen swinging upside down from the overhead bars. 
 One morning during the last week of my senior year of high school, my friend and I decided to approach our acrobatic acquaintance and ask him once and for all what was with all the handstands.
 We had dreamed up intricate stories of a career in the circus or a member of a street break-dancing gang, but instead we received a very simple response: ''It keeps the blood pumping.''Emily Ripp 
 Dear Diary:
 The other day I was looking for crime novels by two Brooklyn writers, and thought I'd check out the used-book store in Brooklyn Heights. I approached the bookseller behind the counter and asked, ''Where are mysteries?''
 He smiled beatifically and replied, ''All around us.''
 Harry Kaplan 
 Dear Diary:
 A Monday afternoon in the crowded Children's Room of the Brooklyn Public Library. 
 One girl, 5 or 6 years old, has presumably lost her playmate. She marches purposefully along the center aisle, peering down all the rows.
 Finally she begins to holler, frowning with impatience:
 ''Stella! STELLA!'' 
 Marlon Brando would be proud.Jessica Max Stein
 Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number; upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished in all media. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



622 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: School Lunch Rises in Cost At Cafeterias This Fall

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Gas pumps, grocery stores, and now school cafeterias.
 Prices on some school lunch lines are going up this fall as school officials, like many others, struggle to pay higher prices and delivery fees for staples like bread, milk, fresh fruit and vegetables. The price increases, generally about 25 cents a meal, come as school districts in New York and across the country try to eke more out of already tight budgets, with some switching to four-day schedules to reduce utility and busing costs, and others asking more of their students to walk to school or limiting out-of-town games for athletic teams.
 But for many parents, nothing hits the pockets quite like lunch prices. 
 ''It's 25 cents a day, but if you have three kids, over a week that's the price of a gallon of milk,'' said Harry A. Capers Jr., a past president of the New Jersey Parent-Teacher Association. ''I think it's something people will notice and I am really concerned about those who have to make tough choices.'' 
 New Jersey's largest school district, Newark, is raising the full price of its daily lunches to $1.50 from $1.25, as its overall food budget grows to an estimated $5.2 million from $5 million last year. (Most Newark students do not pay the full price. In most cases there and elsewhere, increases in the cost of full-price lunches will not affect the reduced prices -- a maximum of 40 cents a meal -- that students from poorer families have to pay.)
 In Paterson, N.J., the full price is also increasing by 25 cents -- to $2.25 in high schools and $2 in elementary schools -- to help cover a 23 percent increase in bread prices alone in the last year. The district, which serves 18,000 lunches a day, now pays 12 cents for each hot dog bun, compared with 9.5 cents a year ago.
 ''It's something we have to do,'' said Tonya Riggins, Newark's director of food services, who oversees 29,000 daily lunches. ''People may not be happy, but it's the economy and it's beyond our control.''
 Across the metropolitan area, many suburban and rural schools are raising lunch prices while large urban districts are taking other measures to cover rising food bills, from reducing food management costs in Yonkers to shopping around for cheaper plastic plates and cups in Syracuse.
 The New York City schools, which serve 626,670 lunches a day, will keep full lunch prices steady at $1.50. But the system will save money by, for example, replacing individual bread rolls and cherry tomatoes in salads with slices of French bread and whole tomatoes that can be bought in bulk. ''It's a lot of little things that add up to big savings,'' said William Havemann, a spokesman for the city's Department of Education.
 To help offset higher food costs, the United States Department of Agriculture, which subsidizes school lunches, has increased its average lunch reimbursement to districts this year by 10 cents to $2.57 a meal for students who qualify for free lunches, and $2.17 for those who qualify for reduced-price lunches. Last year, the increase was 7 cents. 
 The department issued a report this summer, called ''Meeting the Challenge of Rising Food Costs,'' to help districts develop strategies to control food costs and stretch budgets. In addition to cash reimbursements, it will provide more free food this fall to 101,000 school districts participating in the lunch program. It will also expand another program, which provides free snacks of fruits and vegetables, primarily to low-income districts, to all 50 states from 14 states last year.
 But many school officials contend that the federal lunch money is not keeping up with rising food prices, particularly in districts that are stocking their cafeterias with healthier food choices like skim milk, whole grains and fresh fruit. 
 ''When you start including more fresh fruit and vegetables instead of green beans in a can, your costs increase,'' said Brian Sirianni, assistant superintendent for business in the Ballston Spa district, north of Albany. His 4,500-student district is raising lunch prices by 35 cents, to $2, in the middle and high school, and by 25 cents, to $1.75, in the elementary schools -- and may have to increase prices again in the next two years. 
 Affluent suburban schools are also feeling the pinch. In New Jersey, the Mount Laurel district, which serves an average of 1,985 lunches a day, will raise its lunch price by 20 cents -- the highest increase in recent memory -- to $2 in the middle schools, and $1.90 in the elementary schools. ''We're not trying to make a profit, we're just trying to break even,'' said Marie Reynolds, a spokeswoman for the district.
 In poorer areas, people will definitely feel squeezed, said Irene Sterling, president of the Paterson Education Fund, a nonprofit group made up of parents and community leaders seeking to improve that city's schools. ''I think there's going to be people upset, but I also think there's very little anybody can do about it, because it's part of a bigger picture,'' Ms. Sterling said.
 But school officials point out that even with the higher prices, students are getting a good deal.
 Cindy Bonura, director of food and nutrition for the Syracuse schools, said that for $1, high school students in her area could choose from 11 different entrees, with fruits and vegetables on the side. The district, which serves an average of 15,000 lunches a day, is considering raising the price of the high school lunch to $1.50 next month. (Lunch prices in the other schools will remain $1.)
 ''If they went to a deli and got a chicken Caesar salad, it would be 6 to 7 dollars,'' Ms. Bonura said. ''And they're not only getting a chicken Caesar salad, they're getting a roll, a milk and fresh fruit besides that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); FOOD PRICES (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BAKED GOODS (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (74%); PARENTS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); CITIES (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



623 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Obama's Task

 BODY:
There is a temptation to feel jaded about the presidential conventions, with all of their careful staging and production values, but they are a chance for Americans to get a good look at the politicians who would be president. The impressions made at these obsessed-with-prime-time events can be defining.
 Senator Barack Obama goes into the Democratic convention in Denver with a clear challenge: to match the soaring oratory that brought him to this moment in history with a strong and detailed explanation of how he will address the country's many dire problems. 
 There will be plenty of sideline attractions. The public vetting of Mr. Obama's running mate, Senator Joseph Biden, is one; the way the Clintons and their disappointed supporters behave is sure to be another. The main event is Mr. Obama's chance to give 120 million voters a clear idea of what he means when he asks them to trust him to change the country.
 Americans need to hear how he plans to halt the economy's frightening downward spiral and help millions who have lost their jobs, homes and hopes while also preparing our children to compete in a globalized world. That will mean putting some flesh on the position statements that fill his Web site, and setting priorities.
 Although the sputtering economy has replaced war as the most important issue cited by voters in public opinion polls, this remains a nation at war. It needs to hear how Mr. Obama will safely extricate American troops from Iraq, where Mr. Bush's surge has reduced casualties from catastrophic to simply intolerable levels, and how he will salvage the war in Afghanistan. How will he keep the country safe from terrorism while also keeping his promise to restore America's -- and the world's -- confidence that this is a nation ruled by laws and the Constitution, not the whims of an unbridled president?
 Mr. Obama made an important start when he selected Mr. Biden, who has spent decades developing foreign-policy expertise. The voluble Mr. Biden will also bring his famous scrappiness to what is already a sharp- elbowed campaign. That could help or hurt the Democrats' cause depending on his ability to avoid the gaffes for which he is equally famous.
 One part of Mr. Obama's task will be easy: showing how much damage the Bush administration has done to Americans' lives and their country's reputation. 
 This administration has the worst job-creation rate in modern history; income growth has been abysmal for most Americans. Whether the problem is lead-tainted toys or predatory credit card companies or irresponsible home mortgage lending by handsomely paid bankers, Americans doubt that their government is able to protect them, or wants to do so. 
 President Bush's White House has offered no serious answer to the problem of America's energy dependence and no strategy for calming anti-American furies around the world.
 Given these failings, there are a lot of theories why Mr. Obama is not leagues ahead of his Republican opponent, Senator John McCain, in the polls. Some cite the fact that he is African-American. Others argue that Mr. Obama is too cerebral to connect with some voters. 
 What we know is that many Americans are deeply suspicious of their political leadership -- the approval ratings of Congress, now controlled by Mr. Obama's own party, are even lower than those of President Bush -- and they are only now turning their attention to the election. 
 Slightly more than half said in a recent poll that neither candidate had made clear what he would do as president. That is why the conventions in the next two weeks matter so much.
 It is only August and the race has already become too nasty. The fault, mainly, lies with the Republicans' attempt to repeat the 2004 Swift-boating. Mr. Obama has an inspiring life story that can help counter those attacks. Mr. McCain's personal history is also inspiring, but he seems intent on lowering the tone of the campaign rather than raising it.
 More than any candidate we have seen in years, Mr. Obama has an ability to inspire hope and a sense of unlimited possibility. To lead, especially in such hard times, a president needs to offer the country both. To win the presidency, he will first have to make clear where he wants to take that nation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HISTORY (75%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); CHILDREN (71%); DISMISSALS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); TERRORISM (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); LEAD (50%); CREDIT CARDS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



624 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2372 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: August 25, 2008

 BODY:
International
 AYATOLLAH COMES TO DEFENSE
 Of Iranian President
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme religious leader, came to the defense of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who has faced mounting criticism from senior clerics and politicians over Iran's worsening economic conditions, including the country's 26 percent inflation rate. He said that he and the president were in ideological accord, praising Mr. Ahmadinejad's internal policies and his dogged defense of the country's nuclear program. PAGE A6
 MANILA FACES TOUGH CHOICES
 A planned agreement between the government of the Philippines to cede part of the main island in the south to Muslim separatists was aborted by officials of Christian-dominated provinces. The separatist group, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, responded with two days of violence. Now the country's president must decide whether to try to salvage the peace negotiations or rely on force to combat the rebels. There are political risks, either way. PAGE A11 
 AFGHANS LOSE POSTS OVER ATTACK
 After a commando operation in western Afghanistan killed 90, according to Afghan officials, President Hamid Karzai dismissed an Afghan Army general and another officer for their roles. Afghan officials said that mostly women and children died and that they were killed when a joint patrol of Afghan Army commandos and American Special Forces trainers called in airstrikes on a compound in the village of Azizabad. PAGE A7
 A CITY'S HEIGHTENED TENSIONS
 Sevastapol, a Ukrainian port city populated by ethnic Russians, serves as a base for some of Russia's Black Sea fleet. Though it is in Ukraine's southern Crimean peninsula, Sevastopol is ethnically and culturally very much a Russian town. It is also a potential fault line between Russia and a jittery Ukraine, which today flexed its military muscle in a parade in Kiev and is on edge from Russia's willingness to send troops into Georgia, another former Soviet republic. PAGE A6
 MEXICO CITY'S FIGHT OVER ABORTION
 Mexico City's government made abortion legal last year, but that was far from the end of the debate. Since the city's legislature voted for the law in April 2007, some 85 percent of the gynecologists in the city's public hospitals have declared themselves conscientious objectors. And now, even as the city's left-wing government revamps its abortion services, the law is coming up against its biggest challenge -- in the Mexican courts. PAGE A5
 DEATH TOLL FROM AIR CRASH CLIMBS
 The death toll from the crash of a Spanair plane last week on takeoff from the main airport in Madrid rose to 154 during the weekend, when a patient suffering from severe burns died in a hospital. PAGE A10
 NATIONAL
 PLAN FOR BIDEN INCLUDES
 Swing States and Attacks
 Travel plans for Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. have not been finalized beyond his arrival this week in Denver for the Democratic National Convention. But campaign advisers said they were certain that he would spend considerable time campaigning in four swing states, Florida, Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania, and that they expected him to be a stronger and wilier point man for attacking the Republican ticket than Democrats had in 2004 or 2000. PAGE A12
 A KENNEDY VETS FOR NO. 2
 When Caroline Kennedy endorsed Senator Barack Obama's candidacy in January, she thought her announcement would be the extent of her public role in his campaign. But then Mr. Obama asked her to play a primary role in his vice-presidential search, so for the past two months, she has been gathering information, asking questions and learning exhaustive details about some of the nation's top Democrats. PAGE A13
 OBAMA'S ELUSIVE IDEOLOGY
 Much of Senator Barack Obama's politics -- including opposing the war and supporting higher taxes on the wealthy and labor and abortion rights -- falls squarely in the liberal mainstream of the Democratic Party. And while presidential candidates often tack right as they enter the general campaign, Mr. Obama's departures from orthodoxy have heightened a sense of his ideological elusiveness. PAGE A15
 FROM PRIVACY TO THE WORLD STAGE
 Jill Tracy Jacobs Biden, 57, a professor of English at Delaware Technical and Community College, has a bachelor's degree, two masters' degrees and a doctorate in education. She also has a husband about to run for vice president, and as the Democratic National Convention gets under way in Denver this week, she is preparing to join a select club of women who have been catapulted from relative privacy to the world stage. PAGE A13
 OBITUARIES
 HENRI CARTAN, 104
 A mathematician known for meticulous proofs and for inspiring a revival of mathematics in France after World War II, in the 1930s he was a founding member of a group of French mathematicians who set out to rigorously write down the foundations of mathematics; the group published papers under the pseudonym Nicolas Bourbaki. PAGE A17
 LEO ABSE, 91
 A colorful Welsh politician noted for his dandyish apparel, he took a leading role in liberalizing laws on homosexuality and divorce as a Labor Party member of Parliament from 1958 to 1987. PAGE A17
 METRO 
 A DEMOCRATIC DELEGATION
 Proud of Its Diversity
 New York's delegation at the Democratic National Convention in Denver includes a former majority leader of the United State Senate, a former president and a very recent former candidate for president (with the same last name). There are convention newcomers and veterans, 180 men and 181 women, more than 200 members of minorities. ''We are black and white and brown and everything in between,'' the state party chairwoman said. PAGE B1 
 DEFAULT TALK FRAYS NERVES
 The new owners of the Riverton Apartments in Harlem, which has 1,232 apartments with more than half rent-regulated, have notified lenders that they are in imminent danger of defaulting on their mortgage. Tenants worry that a default could lead to a court-appointed manager, cuts in services and a decline in maintenance while the fate of the complex is decided. PAGE B1
 NEW TOWER QUIETLY ARRIVES
 The talk about what has not been built around ground zero has ignored what has: a $2.4 billion, 43-story building where 11,000 people will be working next year, in Battery Park City, cater-corner from the new 1 World Trade Center tower. And that quiet suits Goldman Sachs, the publicity-averse investment banker that will be occupying it, just fine. PAGE B3
 BEIJING '08
 MEN'S VOLLEYBALL VICTORY
 Comes Amid Coach's Pain
 The United States men's volleyball team won its first Olympic gold medal in 20 years, defeating Brazil 3 to 1. For Coach Hugh McCutcheon, whose father-in-law was stabbed to death at a popular tourist site in Beijing the day after the opening ceremony, it was a moment to enjoy, but no salve for the pain. PAGE D1
 A CHOICE OF HEROES
 With a haul of 51 gold medals, China has a variety of Olympic celebrities to fill the role of hero. Many would barely merit any coverage by ESPN; they are athletes who won gold medals in sports like trampoline, badminton and weightlifting, sports considered marginal to a Western audience. But in China, those athletes embody the virtues that fans seek in their heroes. PAGE D3
 REPRESENTING THE NEW INDIAS
 They each won a medal for India, making it the country's best performance at the Olympics, and have shot from obscurity to sudden fame. Many in this country see their victories as emblematic of the rise of a New India. Actually, they represent the vastly different New Indias that today exist side by side, and the intensity of the new aspirations of young Indians up and down the social ladder. PAGE D4
 BUSINESS
 DEBATE ON INFLATION 
 Grows Louder for Fed
 At the Federal Reserve's annual gathering over the weekend, the debate broadened over whether to raise interest rates now to avoid higher inflation in the future or to keep the key lending rate at 2 percent to allow banks and other lenders to rebuild the capital they need, as the Fed chairman and do a majority of the Fed's policy makers believe. PAGE C1
 SHIFTING TO BOTTOM-LINE EMPHASIS
 The transition in leadership at S.A.P., the maker of computer applications for business, is indicative of the company's shift toward more of a focus on the bottom line and less on multibillion-dollar investments in technology. The goal involves doing as well as its American archrival, Oracle, which had a pretax profit margin of about 35 percent last year, well ahead of S.A.P.'s 26.7 percent. PAGE C1
 NETWORKS GIRD FOR CONVENTIONS
 In 2004, the Fox News Channel attracted the highest ratings of any network during the Republican convention. But NBC, ABC and CBS all lost viewers compared with 2000, so some anchors and executives figured on even less coverage this year. But primary season ratings were unusually strong, and the networks are gearing up, not down, for the coming conventions. PAGE C3
 1984: IT WAS A VERY BAD YEAR
 Trying to make George Orwell more relevant to young people by turning him into a blogger; LinkedIn tries to remain relevant by looking to help out in Hollywood; and the mainstream media found the war between Russia and Georgia more relevant than politics, the Olympics or John Edwards. Media Talk. PAGE C4
 SPIDER-MAN AND IRON MAN, RECAST 
 Marvel Entertainment is teaming up with Madhouse, a renowned Japanese animation studio, to develop new versions of Marvel's characters for four anime series that will premiere in spring 2010 in Japan. The efforts will involve reimagining the back stories and redesigning the look of Marvel's stable of characters, which include Spider-Man and Iron Man, to reflect Japanese culture. PAGE C6
 ADVERTISING WINNERS AND DUDS
 For the benefit of those who put up with two weeks of Olympic commercials on the various NBC channels -- instead of TiVoing everything and zipping through them -- it's time for a medal awards ceremony for the spots: gold for those actually worth watching, lead for the dreadful and tin for those that fell short or rang false. PAGE C6
 Bypassing the Press C1
 TVs That Talk to Fridges C5
 ARTS
 ARCHITECT UNBOUND BY STATUS QUO
 Is a Vanishing Breed
 The irreverent architect Lebbeus Woods produced a series of dark and moody renderings in the early 1990s that made him a cult figure. That he now stands virtually alone underscores a shift in the profession during the past decade or so, Nicolai Ouroussoff writes: By abandoning fantasy for the pragmatic, architects have lost some of its most valuable imaginative tools. PAGE E1 
 HELPING SOLDIERS' WIDOWS
 A documentary series called ''In Their Boots,'' which focuses on young military widows whose husbands died in Iraq and Afghanistan, grew in part from a support group on MySpace called the American Widow Project. Ten episodes will soon be broadcast online, along with interactive support groups for widows. PAGE E1 
 AMONG THE BRETHREN
 A funny thing happened to Christopher Buckley on his way to writing his new novel, ''Supreme Courtship'': nothing funny occurred to him. This is that rare occasion when Washington's wickedest wit takes aim at a humor-squelching target: the Supreme Court. The bright moments in the book are sparse, Janet Maslin writes, but Mr. Buckley, whose usual weapon of choice is a rapier, still makes for good company. PAGE E1 
 TANGLED PLOT, SUBLIME SETTING
 Nature -- a lofty, orderly and beneficent Nature -- takes its course in high style in the Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival's inspiring production of ''Cymbeline.'' No matter how maliciously, illogically and self-destructively characters behave in the play, from the twilight of Shakespeare's career, such antics seem so, well, small when enacted before the breathtaking Hudson River view afforded by the open-sided tent. A review by Ben Brantley. PAGE E1 
 ISADORA LIGHT
 It used to be widely stated that none of Isadora Duncan's dances seriously survived her death. And though systematic work has been done on retrieving information from those who studied with her, the nickname for her style diluted -- ''a small Isadora and soda'' -- was conjured over the weekend by Dances by Isadora, an all-female group that performed on the Lawn at Battery Park as part of the Downtown Dance Festival. A review by Alastair Macaulay. PAGE E5 
 MOSTLY MOZART'S FINALE
 Loss and transformation were the themes of this year's Mostly Mozart Festival at Lincoln Center and were embodied in the final program at Avery Fisher Hall by Richard Strauss's ''Metamorphosen,'' a 1945 lament for the unthinkable damage from World War II. Steve Smith writes that the conductor, Louis Langree, set a lively pace that ejected morbidity and brought the performance a gracious lift. PAGE E2 
 Editorial
 MR. OBAMA'S TASK
 Senator Barack Obama goes into the Democratic convention in Denver with a clear challenge: to match the soaring oratory that brought him to this moment in history with a strong, detailed explanation of how he will address the country's dire problems. PAGE A18
 THAT'S 8 OUT OF 457,000
 This month, the Bush administration rolled out a new strategy to solve illegal immigration and just as quickly rolled it back in. It was called Operation Scheduled Departure, and it was simply this: It asked people to turn themselves in. PAGE A18 
 UNDAMMING THE PENOBSCOT
 In many ways, taking a dam down is harder than putting one up. That is one reason that last week's announcement by the Penobscot River Restoration Trust in Maine is so remarkable. PAGE A18
 Op-Ed
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 Barack Obama's selection of Joe Biden to be his running mate complicates John McCain's vice-presidential calculations. Perhaps he needs his own Joe on the ticket. PAGE A19
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 The Obama campaign has turned to the politics of personal destruction, attempting to make a campaign issue out of John McCain's inability to remember how many houses he has. And the turn comes not a moment too soon. PAGE A19
 THE RACE ISN'T ABOUT RACE
 Matt Bai writes that there's plenty of reason to think that Barack Obama's race is not the insurmountable detriment to his candidacy that a lot of anxious observers believe it is. And the danger for Democrats is that dark prophesies of prejudice could be self-fulfilling. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); POLITICS (90%); ABORTION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CITIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); BURN INJURIES (67%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (66%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (66%); AIRPORTS (62%); HOSPITALS (60%); INFLATION (57%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (88%); ALI KHAMENEI (73%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); JOE BIDEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UKRAINE (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MEXICO (93%); SPAIN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); GEORGIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



625 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Blacks Debate Civil Rights Risk in Obama's Rise

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On the night that Senator Barack Obama accepts the Democratic nomination for president, Roderick J. Harrison plans to pop open a bottle of Champagne and sit riveted before the television with his wife and 12-year-old son.
Mr. Harrison, a demographer who is black, says he expects to feel chills when Mr. Obama becomes the first black presidential candidate to lead a major party ticket. But as the Democratic convention gets under way, Mr. Harrison's anticipation is tempered by uneasiness as he wonders: Will Mr. Obama's success further the notion that the long struggle for racial equality has finally been won?
Mr. Obama has received overwhelming support from black voters, many of whom believe he will help bridge the nation's racial divide. But even as they cheer him on, some black scholars, bloggers and others who closely follow the race worry that Mr. Obama's historic achievements might make it harder to rally support for policies intended to combat racial discrimination, racial inequities and urban poverty.
They fear that growing numbers of white voters and policy makers will decide that eradicating racial discrimination and ensuring equal opportunity have largely been done. 
''I worry that there is a segment of the population that might be harder to reach, average citizens who will say: 'Come on. We might have a black president, so we must be over it,' '' said Mr. Harrison, 59, a sociologist at Howard University and a consultant for the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies here.
''That is the danger, that we declare victory,'' said Mr. Harrison, who fears that poor blacks will increasingly be blamed for their troubles. ''Historic as this moment is, it does not signify a major victory in the ongoing, daily battle.''
Such concerns have been percolating in black intellectual circles for months, on talk radio and blogs, in dinner conversations, academic meetings and flurries of e-mail messages crisscrossing the country.
It can be an awkward discussion for Obama supporters who argue that the success of the candidate -- the man who might become America's first black president -- might make it somewhat more difficult to advance an ambitious public policy agenda that helps blacks. Some of Mr. Obama's black supporters say that Mr. Obama himself, by rarely focusing on racial discrimination and urban poverty while campaigning, has often fueled the notion that the nation has transcended race.
Other supporters dismiss the idea that Mr. Obama's success might undermine support for race-based policies. They say black voters should focus not on speculative debates but instead on helping him win the presidency, because his emphasis on solutions to problems like failing schools, unemployment and inadequate health insurance would benefit blacks.
Last month, the debate bubbled up when The Root, a Web journal of black politics and culture, published a provocative essay titled ''President Obama: Monumental Success or Secret Setback?''
''If Obama becomes the president, every remaining, powerfully felt black grievance and every still deeply etched injustice will be cast out of the realm of polite discourse,'' wrote Lawrence Bobo, a black sociologist at Harvard University, who supports Mr. Obama and was outlining in the essay the concerns of some friends and colleagues. ''White folks will just stop listening.''
Bev Smith, a black talk radio host whose program is based in Pittsburgh and syndicated nationally, said some of her listeners echoed those worries.
''There's an assumption now that we've made it,'' Ms. Smith said. ''Our concern is that we'll get lost in the shuffle.''
The concerns have been driven in part by opponents of affirmative action who argue that race-based preferences in education and the workplace are increasingly irrelevant given the accomplishments of Mr. Obama and the growing black middle class.
Others, like Abigail Thernstrom, the vice chairwoman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights, say the creation of minority voting districts should be reconsidered, too, given Mr. Obama's success at wooing white voters in states like Iowa, Nebraska and Wyoming.
Ms. Thernstrom, who is white, said black and white academics who worried about the impact of Mr. Obama's achievement were engaging in ''habits of pessimism.''
''People feel that there's something callous, something racially indifferent in saying, 'Wait a minute; we've come a long way,' '' said Ms. Thernstrom, a longtime critic of affirmative action who is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research group.
''But whether he wins or loses, for a black man to become a standard-bearer for one of the two major parties, it does say something,'' she said. ''It says that the road we started down in 1965 with the Voting Rights Act has come to an end. We don't need to talk about disfranchisement in the same way anymore.''
The fortunes of black Americans have certainly improved since the civil rights struggle of the 1960s. The number of educated, professional blacks has grown as poverty rates have declined. About 17 percent of blacks held bachelor's degrees in 2004, compared with 5 percent in 1970, census data shows. (About 30 percent of whites held bachelor's degrees that year.) In 2005, college-educated black women who worked full time earned more than their white female counterparts, census data shows.
But significant gaps between blacks and whites remain. About a quarter of blacks lived below the poverty line in 2006, compared with 8 percent of whites, census data shows. The median income of blacks, $30,200, is less than two-thirds that of whites, $48,800. And studies suggest that employers often favor white job seekers over black applicants, even when their educational backgrounds and work experiences are nearly identical.
Such disparities might explain the differences in opinion that remain between blacks and whites.
In a New York Times/CBS News poll released last month, 53 percent of whites said that blacks and whites had about an equal chance of getting ahead in society. Only 30 percent of blacks agreed.
Blacks and whites were similarly divided over the state of race relations. Fifty-five percent of whites said race relations were generally good, compared with 29 percent of blacks. Nearly 60 percent of blacks said race relations were generally bad.
''A few of my white friends have asked me, 'With Barack achieving all of this, will we be in a position where we can put race aside?' '' said Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, who is a co-chairman of Mr. Obama's campaign in that state.
Mr. Cummings said he points them to statistics on lingering racial disparities in education, health and income. ''I hope that progressive-minded people will not make a blanket conclusion that if Barack has made it, everybody can make it,'' he said.
Mr. Obama has occasionally made that point himself, noting that his candidacy alone will not resolve the nation's lingering racial inequities.
''I have never been so naive as to believe that we can get beyond our racial divisions in a single election cycle, or with a single candidacy, particularly a candidacy as imperfect as my own,'' Mr. Obama said in his speech on race in March.
As part of his urban policy plan, Mr. Obama promises to increase the minimum wage, expand affordable housing, provide full financing for community block grants and create a White House office of urban affairs. Some of his black supporters argue that it would be foolhardy for Mr. Obama to focus more on racial issues, particularly given that he needs to appeal to white voters who can be alienated by such talk.
''He's running for president of the United States, not president of the Urban League,'' said Jabari Asim, editor of The Crisis, the N.A.A.C.P. magazine, reiterating comments made by a fellow writer and editor. ''I think most people understand that he can't go out and push this overtly African-American agenda.''
Mr. Harrison, the Howard University sociologist, worries that such political imperatives might make it less likely that an Obama administration would be inclined to confront entrenched racial divisions.
But he still plans to savor Mr. Obama's historic moment. He hopes that the nomination will lead to a national conversation about race relations and that the shifting political landscape might give rise to new strategies to address the legacies of America's color line.
''It will certainly shift the conversation,'' Mr. Harrison said. ''It might end up being another vehicle for people to press the same points. But it might also open a new chapter of the debate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Historic as this moment is, it does not signify a major victory in the ongoing, daily battle.'' RODERICK J. HARRISON, Howard University sociologist (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (Pg. A1)
 RODERICK J. HARRISON: Howard University sociologist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (Pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



626 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Anxious Party Hopes to Show Strong Obama

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Democrats gathering here for their nominating convention are significantly more nervous about Senator Barack Obama's prospects this fall than they were a month ago, and are urging him to use the next four days to address weaknesses in his candidacy and lingering party divisions from the primary fight.
 Mr. Obama's aides said they had learned from what they described as the mistake of the 2004 Democratic convention -- when aides to Senator John Kerry's campaign sought to forbid convention speakers from going after President Bush -- and would use their time to draw contrasts with Senator John McCain, particularly on the economy and his opposition to abortion rights.
 ''The stakes of this election will be made very clear,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's chief strategist. ''We are going to define the choice.'' 
 At the same time, acknowledging persistent unease with Mr. Obama among a significant segment of voters, his aides said they would use speeches and presentations during the next four days, including having Al Gore introduce Mr. Obama for his acceptance speech Thursday night, to offer a fuller biography and a more detailed plan of what he would do as president. 
 They said they were looking to 1992 as a model, when Bill Clinton successfully used his convention to address persistent questions about his personal life and what he would do as president.
 Democrats arriving here said they remained confident that Mr. Obama would leave Denver at the end of the week in a strong position to defeat Mr. McCain. But many Democrats made it clear that a convention they had once anticipated would be a breezy celebration of Mr. Obama had turned into a more sober and consequential event.
 This reflected a summer that they said demonstrated Mr. Obama's vulnerabilities and Mr. McCain's resilience, and the signs of lingering divisions between some supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Mr. Obama.
 ''Back in June and July, I truly thought he was going to blow McCain out of the water and carry 30 or 40 states,'' said Donald Fowler, a former national Democratic chairman who supported Mrs. Clinton in the primary. ''What has happened is that Republicans -- McCain specifically -- have really twisted his great charisma, this electric personality, to discredit his ability, his experience, his capacity, his judgment. I fear they are about to do to him what they did to Gore.''
 Discussing the days ahead, Mr. Fowler continued: ''Obama has got to do some things that will shore up his ability to lead -- not just to charm, but to lead. They've got to give credibility to his understanding of foreign policy, his ability to deal with tough people and tough questions, and his ability to be more explicit and convincing on his health care policies and energy policies.''
 Dennis McDonald, the Democratic chairman of Montana, a state that Mr. Obama is trying to win from Republicans, said this was a critical opening for Mr. Obama after a month in which polls suggested the race was tightening and events in Russia and Georgia put a new spotlight on foreign affairs, creating an opening that Mr. McCain seized.
 ''Normally I might say these conventions are not so important, but I don't think that's the case this year,'' Mr. McDonald said. ''There seems to be a sense of urgency. We have had a couple of weeks that were not so good.''
 For the most part, this is a confident if slightly anxious party. And many Democrats were cheered by the choice of Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware as Mr. Obama's running mate, saying he had the potential to help address some of Mr. Obama's political shortcomings.
 At the same time, Democratic officials said Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts was to fly here to attend a tribute in his honor Monday night, though it was unclear whether Mr. Kennedy, who is suffering from brain cancer, would speak.
 Still, Democrats said Mr. Obama should offer a concrete idea of what he would do as president, to counter the effort by Republicans to present him as a showman. They said he had to offer a tougher contrast with Mr. McCain.
 ''I think in the case of McCain, they need to frame him,'' said Mr. Kerry, an early Obama supporter who four years ago was nominated by this party as its 2004 presidential nominee. ''Viscerally, my feeling is they've got to come back at him hard. And they've got to do more to complete the task of definition -- both definition of him as well as definition of John McCain.''
 Joe Trippi, who ran the presidential campaign of one of Mr. Obama's rivals, John Edwards of North Carolina, said: ''He has still got to get to the meat-and-potato, blue-collar workers. This is a big opportunity for him.''
 There are some things that may be beyond the control of the Obama campaign. Most pressingly, Democrats said they were worried that the tensions between supporters of Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama from the contest that just ended two months ago would spill into public view after her name is entered into nomination, particularly after Mr. Obama bypassed Mrs. Clinton in choosing Mr. Biden.
 ''I have a lot of doubts that this convention is going to be as persuasive as it should be because they've got this damn thing with Hillary,'' Mr. Fowler said. ''I love Hillary. I was for her. But this is the worst political decision I could imagine. This is supposed to be an Obama celebration. You're going to get the nomination of someone who came very close to winning and you're going to get a lot of people in there cheering and hollering and some people booing.''
 Mrs. Clinton's advisers said Sunday that she would move to avoid this by meeting with her delegates on Wednesday and formally urging them to support Mr. Obama in the roll-call vote that night. (Under Democratic Party rules, delegates are permitted to vote for whomever they want.)
 Republicans sought to stoke the issue by releasing an advertisement highlighting Mr. Obama's failure to choose Mrs. Clinton as his running mate, using her words against him from the primary season and implying he passed her over because of them. Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a former Clinton ally who came under attack by the campaign after he endorsed Mr. Obama, said: ''There has got to be a full reconciliation between the Clinton people and the Obama people. I think the convention will put to rest any past divisions among supporters.''
 The Obama campaign is leaving little to chance. It has created a rapid response team -- led by Craig Smith, a former top operative in the Clinton world -- to head out to the convention floor at the first sign of any trouble from Clinton supporters. 
 Mr. Obama's campaign began sending out a one-page sheet of daily talking points to delegates, instructing them what to say and what to avoid in talking to reporters. (In one last week, according to a recipient, the central thrust was how to parry questions about Clinton-Obama strife and Mrs. Clinton's speech by saying, ''I can't wait to hear Hillary Clinton talk about the future and am excited that her candidacy is unifying our party!'') 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers moved the Delaware sign to its new position at the Pepsi Center in Denver, where the Democratic convention starts Monday. Updates and a schedule at nytimes.com/politics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A1)
FESTIVITIES: Guests lined up Saturday to have their picture taken with a painting of Barack Obama at a party in Denver ahead of the Democrats' convention there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SECURITY: The police struggled Sunday to keep antiwar demonstrators out of Union Station in Denver. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
NEWS MEDIA: Signs for television networks inside the Pepsi Center, site of the four-day political gathering. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ON STAGE: At the event, Democrats want to draw contrasts with Mr. Obama's opponent, John McCain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); ABORTION (54%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (51%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (59%); DAVID AXELROD (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (91%) COLORADO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



627 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Delegates for Clinton Back Obama, but Show Concerns

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and DALIA SUSSMAN; Megan Thee and Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
 Delegates to the Democratic National Convention arrive in Denver having largely put aside the deep divisions of the primary fight between Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, although some hold lingering concerns about Mr. Obama's level of experience, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll. 
 More than half of the delegates that Mrs. Clinton won in the primaries now say they are enthusiastic supporters of Mr. Obama, and they also believe he will win the presidential election in November, the poll found. Three in 10 say they support Mr. Obama but have reservations about him or they support him only because he is the party's nominee. Five percent say they do not support him yet. 
 The poll, which was taken before Mr. Obama selected Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware as his running mate, also suggests that Mrs. Clinton's 1,640 pledged delegates are evenly split over whom they plan to vote for on the floor of the convention during the roll call vote on Wednesday evening. 
 Mrs. Clinton's name will be placed into nomination as a symbolic gesture to honor her strong showing in the primaries and the historic nature of her campaign. She has said she will vote for Mr. Obama in her capacity as a superdelegate.
 Forty-two percent of Mrs. Clinton's pledged delegates surveyed say they would vote for her. But 43 percent say they would vote for Mr. Obama while another 15 percent have not decided what they will do when Mrs. Clinton's name is put into nomination. 
 These numbers suggest the party is coalescing around its nominee, although not completely.
 Mr. Obama spoke with former President Bill Clinton and Mrs. Clinton late last week to discuss the campaign and their role at the convention, in part to assure that the three most prominent figures in the Democratic Party are all on the same page when they address the delegates and voters. 
 Whether the Clinton supporters follow through to vote for her or leave their grievances behind and cast their roll-call ballots for Mr. Obama remains to be seen.
 ''If Barack is the nominee, he is the nominee,'' Diana Carpenter-Madoshi, 62, a retired nurse from Rocklin, Calif., and a Clinton delegate, said in a follow-up interview. ''I'm still pledged to Hillary because I was elected by my district to be her pledged delegate and I'm honoring the voters who voted for her.'' 
 She said she backed Mrs. Clinton because of her clear message on issues and her specific plans for solving them. ''I want to know how Barack will address the issues that matter to me, how he will address economic issues and health care, and the issue of equal pay and gender bias,'' she said. 
 Another pro-Clinton delegate, Betty L. Julian, a lawyer from Turlock, Calif., said she found Mr. Obama an inspirational leader and agreed with him on most issues. ''I just thought Hillary was a stronger candidate,'' Ms. Julian said, ''and I thought middle America would be able to swallow a Hillary presidency easier than a Barack presidency.''
 Still, more than 80 percent of the delegates surveyed said they enthusiastically supported Mr. Obama, and about as many (including more than two-thirds of Mrs. Clinton's pledged delegates) were confident he would win the election. Majorities across all regions except the South said Mr. Obama held an edge in their state.
 Asked to name what they perceived to be Mr. Obama's greatest strength, the delegates were most apt to cite his ability to inspire and his ability to bring change. Inexperience was by far the top weakness that was cited for the 47-year-old first-term senator, offered by more than 4 in 10 delegates. Eight percent said his race was a weakness, and smaller percentages named foreign policy, youth and vague policy proposals as shortcomings.
 The poll of 970 Democratic delegates selected at random of the 4,439 total delegates was conducted July 16-Aug. 17 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. Interviews were conducted by telephone, but if delegates preferred they could complete the survey online. 
 Most Democratic delegates said they believed the length of the primary season helped their party's chances of winning in November; just one in 10 said it hurt. And two-thirds said they were satisfied with the party's primary system of awarding delegates based on the proportion of votes won and which relies heavily on caucuses, although few, 2 in 10, said they were very satisfied. About a third of the delegates said their state's system for selecting delegates needed changes. 
 Most Democratic delegates (especially the roughly 800 party leaders and elected officials known as superdelegates) also favor maintaining the role of superdelegates. But a third said the system should be changed so that only delegates elected from the primaries and caucuses were used to select the nominee. 
 The survey found the Democratic delegates to be, on average, older, wealthier, better educated, more liberal, more likely to be a union member and more opposed to the war in Iraq than other American voters, and even other Democrats. 
 Asked whether the United States did the right thing by invading Iraq, only 2 percent of the sample of delegates said yes while 95 percent said no. Fourteen percent of Democratic voters and 37 percent of all voters in a separate New York Times/CBS News national survey said the invasion was appropriate.
 And while fewer describe themselves as evangelical Christians than a broader sample of American voters, they are just as likely to say religion is extremely or very important to them.
 The Democratic delegates overwhelmingly cited the economy as the most pressing issue facing their state. More than 6 in 10 delegates said the national economy was very bad -- a more deeply negative assessment than even all voters, who are themselves broadly negative about the economy.And 9 in 10 said the country was in a recession.
 On abortion, 7 in 10 delegates said it should be generally available to those who want it, much more than all voters (33 percent) who believe so and even Democratic voters (43 percent).And nearly all delegates said there should be some form of legal recognition for same-sex couples -- just 5 percent said they should not be allowed to marry or form civil unions.
 Mrs. Clinton is viewed favorably by 85 percent of all delegates, although the number drops to 68 percent of pledged Obama delegates. Her husband, the former president, has seen his popularity wane since 2004, to 79 percent from 96 percent of delegates in 2004. It is lower still, 62 percent, among Mr. Obama's pledged delegates. Most delegates do, however, think that the former president could help Mr. Obama if he campaigns for him, although fewer than half think he would help a lot.
 Michelle Obama is viewed favorably by 81 percent of the delegates, but 15 percent said they were undecided or had not heard enough, giving her an opportunity to win over the skeptics when she speaks on Monday night.
 Al Gore is viewed positively by 93 percent of Democratic delegates, up 10 points from 2004 (he was awarded a Nobel Peace Prize and was featured in an Oscar-winning film in the interim). His 2000 running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, is a deeply unpopular figure in the party, with 69 percent of the delegates expressing an unfavorable view of him. That number may rise further after he speaks in support of the Republican nominee, Senator John McCain, at the Republican National Convention next week.
 While some Clinton delegates are having trouble putting their earlier loyalties aside, Warren Davis, 71, of Montgomery, Ala., is now fully behind Mr. Obama.
 ''Clinton and Obama were close together all the time, and Hillary didn't make it. It's just that,'' Mr. Davis said. ''It was easy to switch because I feel we need to get a Democrat in because the Republicans have really messed up the country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); SUPERDELEGATES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NURSES & NURSING (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



628 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Obama Aides Defend Bank's Pay to Biden Son

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW and MIKE McINTIRE; Michael Luo contributed reporting.

 BODY:
During the years that Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. was helping the credit card industry win passage of a law making it harder for consumers to file for bankruptcy protection, his son had a consulting agreement that lasted five years with one of the largest companies pushing for the changes, aides to Senator Barack Obama's presidential campaign acknowledged Sunday.
 Mr. Biden's son, Hunter, received consulting fees from the MBNA Corporation from 2001 to 2005 for work on online banking issues. Aides to Mr. Obama, who chose Mr. Biden as his vice-presidential running mate on Saturday, would not say how much the younger Mr. Biden, who works as both a lawyer and lobbyist in Washington, had received, though a company official had once described him as having a $100,000 a year retainer. But Obama aides said he had never lobbied for MBNA and that there was nothing improper about the payments.
 Campaign officials acknowledged that the connection between the Bidens and MBNA, the enormous financial services company then based in their home state of Delaware, was one of the most sensitive issues they examined while vetting the senator for a spot on the ticket. 
 Mr. Biden's support for the bankruptcy changes, which were signed into law in 2005, puts him at odds with Mr. Obama of Illinois, who opposed the bill and has criticized the presumptive Republican nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona, for supporting it. Consumer advocates and other Democratic allies remain sharply critical of Mr. Biden's actions, saying in recent days that they could hamper the campaign's efforts to attack the Republicans over their handling of the nation's credit crisis.
 The financial services industry began seeking relief from Congress in the mid-1990s from an increase in bankruptcies that was cutting into its profits. Its initial support came from Republican lawmakers, who repeatedly introduced bills to make it more difficult for consumers to erase their debts. During that time, executives at MBNA, which was bought in 2006 by Bank of America, began donating heavily to both major political parties and many national politicians, including Mr. Biden.
 In late 1996, the company hired the younger of Mr. Biden's two sons, Robert Hunter Biden, known as Hunter, who had just graduated from Yale Law School, as a lawyer. The company promoted Mr. Biden to senior vice president by early 1998. And after the younger Mr. Biden worked at the Commerce Department on electronic commerce issues from 1998 to 2001, MBNA hired him back on a monthly consulting contract to advise it on such issues, aides said.
 Consumer advocates say that Senator Biden was one of the first Democratic leaders to support the bankruptcy bill, and he voted for it four times -- in 1998, 2000, 2001 and in March 2005, when its final version passed the Senate by a vote of 74 to 25.
 Travis Plunkett, legislative director of the Consumer Federation of America, a consumer group that opposed the bill, said that Senator Biden had provided a ''veneer of bipartisanship'' that eventually helped the credit card companies win over other Democrats. ''He provided cover to other Democrats to do what the credit industry was urging them to do,'' Mr. Plunkett said.
 Aides to the Obama campaign said Sunday that Senator Biden's goal was always to strike a workable compromise between the competing interests on the bankruptcy bill, and that he was not influenced by his son's work for MBNA or the campaign donations. They said he had sought several changes in the bill to protect consumers that upset MBNA executives, then the largest employer in Delaware, while acknowledging that he also voted against other amendments proposed by other Democrats. 
 Hunter Biden, through his assistant at his law firm, Oldaker Biden & Belair, referred a request for comment to the Obama campaign. James Mahoney, the head of corporate communications for Bank of America, said the consulting arrangement had ended by the time Bank of America took over MBNA in January 2006. 
 ''Senator Biden has a 35-year record fighting for people against powerful interests, whether it's drug companies, oil companies or insurance companies,'' David Wade, a spokesman for the Obama campaign, said in a statement. ''He took plenty of knocks from the largest employer in his state because he demanded changes in the bankruptcy bill. But legislating requires compromise. Senators cast tough votes. Congress worked on the bankruptcy bill for nearly a decade, over five Congresses, to forge a bipartisan compromise.''
 Mr. Wade added: ''Senator Biden took on entrenched interests and succeeded in improving the bill for low-income workers, women and children. There were times when amendments on both sides would have blown up a bipartisan compromise backed by three-quarters of the Senate. At those moments, Senator Biden had to make the tough calls and voted to pass a bill.'' 
 Mr. Wade said Senator Biden took extra steps to protect consumers in votes to require people in bankruptcy to continue paying child support or alimony. He also took steps to affirm that the bill exempted debtors who have serious medical problems, are veterans or are in the armed service, the aide said.
 But a review of the legislative record finds as many instances when Mr. Biden joined Republicans to defeat attempts by his Democratic colleagues, including Mr. Obama, to soften the bill's impact on those same constituencies. He was one of five Democrats in March 2005 who voted against a proposal to require credit card companies to provide more effective warnings to consumers about the consequences of paying only the minimum amount due each month. Mr. Obama voted for it. 
 Mr. Biden also went against Mr. Obama to help defeat amendments aimed at strengthening protections for people forced into bankruptcy who have large medical debts or are in the military; Mr. Biden argued that the amendments were unnecessary because the legislation already carved out exemptions for those debtors. And he was one of four Democrats who sided with Republicans to defeat an effort, supported by Mr. Obama, to shift responsibility in certain cases from debtors to the predatory lenders who helped push them into bankruptcy. 
 In many of these battles, Mr. Biden's Democratic colleagues often voiced their frustration with the big financial interests arrayed against them. Senator Paul Wellstone specifically cited MBNA during a floor debate in March 2001 over his call for stronger protections for debtors forced into bankruptcy because of medical bills -- an amendment that Mr. Biden would later vote against. 
 ''It just so happens that the people who find themselves in terrible economic circumstances through no fault of their own -- major medical bills, they have lost their jobs, or there has been a divorce -- it is my view as a former political scientist and now a senator for the State of Minnesota that those people do not have the same kind of clout that MBNA Corporation has,'' Mr. Wellstone said.
 Mr. Biden's supporters also point out that the Republicans controlled the Senate for much of the time when the bankruptcy bills were under consideration. MBNA employees have given Mr. Biden more than $214,000 in campaign donations over the years, the largest amount in his coffers tied to any single company. But the company's employees have given even more lavishly to President George W. Bush and top Republican lawmakers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hunter Biden watching his father, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., in Iowa, in December. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%); INTERNET BANKING (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (94%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (94%); BAC (LSE) (94%); 8648 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



629 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Georgian President Vows to Rebuild Army and Pursue Control of Enclaves

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS and MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ; Steven Erlanger contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia 

 BODY:
President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia said Sunday that he planned to rebuild his country's shattered army, and that even after its decisive defeat in the war for control of one of Georgia's two separatist enclaves he would continue to pursue a policy of uniting both under the Georgian flag.
 ''It will stay the same,'' he said of his ambition to bring the enclaves, South Ossetia and Abkhazia, under Georgian control. ''Now as ever.'' 
 Also on Sunday, France called an emergency summit meeting of the European Union for next Monday to discuss ''the future of relations with Russia'' and aid to Georgia, according to a statement from the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy.
 The meeting was framed as a response to Russia's failure to meet the terms of the cease-fire agreement that Mr. Sarkozy had negotiated between Moscow and Tbilisi. Mr. Sarkozy, in a statement, said he was responding to the demands of ''several states'' for the summit meeting, which will deal with ''the crisis in Georgia'' and take place in Brussels.
 According to senior French officials who helped negotiate the cease-fire agreement, the Russians must pull all their troops back to positions before the crisis began on Aug. 7. 
 The Russian troops stationed in South Ossetia and Abkhazia before that date may stay, and may continue to send out patrols into a ''security zone,'' a thin buffer roughly five miles beyond the enclaves' borders. 
 But the Russians are not allowed to set up fixed positions in the security zone -- an agreement that Russia has not adhered to, Mr. Sarkozy said Friday in a telephone call with President Bush. 
 In the Georgian Black Sea port of Batumi, the first American naval vessel arrived Sunday to distribute American humanitarian aid.
 A train carrying oil cars exploded while traveling near Gori, the city in central Georgia that Russia had occupied for about 10 days. Georgian officials said the train had struck a mine left behind by Russian troops. No one was reported killed in the blast or the raging fire that followed, which sent thick plumes of black smoke across the countryside. 
 With the bulk of Russian troops now withdrawn to the enclaves or to Russian soil, Mr. Saakashvili described the war against South Ossetia and Russia -- a military defeat that imperiled his government and threatens Georgia's fragile economy -- as a seminal moment that offered the seeds of political and national success.
 In an interview in his office that stretched until nearly 2 a.m., Mr. Saakashvili said that Georgia had gained allies in the world and would embark upon a campaign of rebuilding. 
 He predicted continued American support and said that he spoke by phone with the presumptive Republican nominee for president, Senator John McCain, as often as twice a day, and that he was in regular contact with Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., who has been picked to run for vice president on the Democratic ticket. 
 He also said that the Bush administration had not communicated disappointment or signaled a decline in its support for him since he gave the order on Aug. 7 to attack Tskhinvali, the South Ossetian capital. 
 He said that while he might face pressures in the months ahead, as the effects of the war ripple through the economy, he said he expected to weather any troubles. ''There has been tremendous solidarity,'' he said.
 The Kremlin has characterized Mr. Saakashvili as delusional and dangerous.
 Sitting in his office as he discussed the effects of the war -- tens of thousands of refugees; the scattering of a national army that abandoned its dead and its hardware on the battlefield; the loss of territory to Russia and the hardening of separatist sentiment in the enclaves -- he seemed prepared to resume the policies that had set Georgia and Russia at odds.
 He also said that he had made a decision not to continue to fight Russia during the invasion, and not to have his army organize an insurgency against Russia, because he hoped to save the country.
 ''We had a choice here,'' he said. ''We could turn this country into Chechnya -- we had enough people and equipment to do that -- or we had to do nothing and stay a modern European country.''
 He added: ''Eventually we would have chased them away, but we would have had to go to the mountains and grow beards. That would have been a tremendous national philosophical and emotional burden.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia on Sunday during an interview at his office in the nation's capital city, Tbilisi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (78%); NAVIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); TRAINS (67%); HARBORS & PORTS (62%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (62%); NAVAL VESSELS (62%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) GEORGIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



630 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: Tracing the Disparate Threads In Obama's Political Philosophy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama has put a fright of late into some liberal supporters by backing a limited version of gun rights and voting to give legal immunity to the telecommunications companies that helped the Bush administration eavesdrop on American citizens.
 Presidential candidates often exude a whiff of centrism as they enter the general campaign. But for Mr. Obama, a relative newcomer to the national stage who will use the Democratic Party's convention this week to sell himself to voters on his terms, these moves have heightened a sense of his ideological elusiveness.
 Much of Mr. Obama's politics, his opposition to the war and support for raising taxes on the wealthy, and his support of abortion and labor rights, falls squarely in the liberal mainstream of the Democratic Party. But his ideological departures are noteworthy. 
 He supports the death penalty for some crimes not involving homicides, like child rape, and he favors giving federal money to religious groups for delivering social services. 
 In foreign affairs, he is a stated admirer of former President George Bush's foreign policy, often identified now with the so-called ''realist'' view that the United States should act primarily out of strategic self-interest.
 Mr. Obama, an intellectually curious man, is nothing if not pragmatic in the application of philosophy to politics, temperamentally inclined toward no strand of thinking. In his books, sentences are pulled taut between opposing viewpoints; a literary critic remarked on the ''internal counterpoise'' in his writing.
 But that leaves a fundamental question for admirers and critics: Is his a consistent philosophy that borrows pragmatically from the center while rooted on the left? Or does he have an expedient slide-step that allows him to appeal to the center without alienating his liberal base? 
 It is a balancing act not unfamiliar to the Democrats, and likely to play out at the convention in a muted way. Abortion offers a flash-point, as liberal party activists have jettisoned long-held language that abortion should be ''safe, legal and rare'' in favor of a woman's right to ''a safe and legal abortion,'' a subtle leftward shift.
 Mr. Obama, however, has invited Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, an abortion-rights opponent to give a convention speech. Mr. Casey's father, then Pennsylvania's governor, was blocked from speaking at the 1992 convention because of his anti-abortion views.
 Mr. Obama, who declined to be interviewed for this article, appears more intrigued by how to acquire power to push through changes than by adherence to ideology. Lost causes hold little allure.
 In economics, he endorses a redistributionist liberalism but is skeptical of too much government tinkering. His most influential advisers hail from the University of Chicago, a bastion of free-marketers and a place where he taught classes for many years.
 In foreign affairs, Mr. Obama stands defined by opposition to the Iraq war and emphasis on ''transnational'' threats, from global warming to disease and terrorism. But he is no pacifist; in his 2002 speech opposing an invasion of Iraq he emphasized that he was only against ''dumb war.''
 Mr. Obama would increase military spending and has not ruled out military action against Iran. 
 Guiding Forces
 Mr. Obama's moral and political outlook is subtle or ambiguous enough (take your pick) that liberal and centrist advisers rarely feel cast out. This is not unusual. Presidents often tack in unexpected directions, and ideology can become unwanted ballast. 
 But election-year pragmatism also can cloak governing ideology. Mr. Obama would be the first president elected whose worldview took shape in a post-cold war, post-Great Society period. He is fond of reminding audiences he was just 9 as the curtain fell on the 1960s; his suggestion is that he is not captive to old culture wars.
 Asked about the writers who influenced him, Mr. Obama chose John Steinbeck, William Shakespeare, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Primo Levi, Graham Greene, Toni Morrison and Doris Lessing, a morally serious grouping that spreads in many ideological directions.
 He draws also on the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr, who crafted the concept of the ''just war'' and argued for the morality, under certain circumstances, of nuclear armament. 
 ''Obama carries in his intellectual DNA many of the tensions between the left and the middle in American political culture,'' said Peter Dreier, a professor of politics at Occidental College. ''He was not involved in the fights of the 1960s, and that makes him harder to define.''
 Some critics voice skepticism. They see an ambitious fellow who remains intentionally undefined.
 ''His philosophy is ambition,'' said Fred Siegel, a historian at The Cooper Union in New York. ''I see him as having a rhetoric rather than a philosophy.''
 Communal Rights
 Senator, what is your view of the Supreme Court decision barring the execution of child rapists? The question was standard fare for a politician who has questioned the equity of the death penalty.
 But Mr. Obama's answer set reporters to typing furiously.
 ''I have said repeatedly that I think that the death penalty should be applied in very narrow circumstances for the most egregious of crimes,'' he said. ''I think the rape of a small child, 6 or 8 years old, is a heinous crime.'' 
 The communitarian strain in Mr. Obama's thinking often surprises liberal supporters. Roughly put, communitarianism holds that individual rights must be circumscribed by the communal, with all the cross-generational, religious and patriotic obligations that implies. Sweeping change must be approached slowly; when government enforces individual responsibilities, a moral crisis looms.
 Communitarians also hold that government and corporations are bound by obligations to citizens, like a clean environment, education and health care.
 Mr. Obama was exposed to such thinking while working as a community organizer in Chicago. Saul Alinsky, the organizer who inspired the group for which Mr. Obama labored, argued for working through cultural bulwarks like churches and synagogues, talking to working class people on their own terms.. 
 Culture rather than government, he says, promotes individual success and social cohesion, and federal courts should tread carefully. 
 ''He's certainly center-left but he has a pretty conservative social message,'' said Theda Sckopol, a government professor at Harvard.
 This impulse informs his views of religion. A deep current in American liberalism holds that church and state are separate realms.
 Mr. Obama does not swim in this river. 
 He would give federal contracts to faith-based groups to fight poverty. (Unlike Mr. Bush, he would require religious groups to hire nonbelievers for these programs.) 
 ''If we scrub language of all religious content,'' Mr. Obama said in 1996, ''we forfeit the imagery and terminology through which millions of Americans understand both their personal morality and social justice.''
 Raised in a secular family, he later embraced Christianity. Today a moral argot streaks his language; in Missouri recently he said Darfur reminds him ''how sinful we can be.''
 Alan Wolfe, a professor at Boston College, said no one should mistake Mr. Obama for a raging liberal. ''During the primaries,'' he said, ''I used to tell people that Obama, not Hillary, was the real Clinton.''
 On foreign affairs, Mr. Obama marries idealism about human rights to an insistent realism. He would not try to chase Russia out of the Group of 8 industrial nations, as his Republican opponent, Senator John McCain suggests.
 ''We can't redefine Russia as evil; that's not in our interests nor will it work,'' said Susan E. Rice, a top foreign policy adviser, speaking before Russia's military incursion into Georgia. 
 Mr. Obama gives his ambition great sweep. 
 ''I will say this, what we saw from Europe to the Middle East was enormous hunger for American leadership,'' Mr. Obama told a crowd in Virginia.
 Some American foreign policy specialists are not convinced that this sounds quite so transformational. Mr. Obama consistently votes for increased spending on the military and often sounds like a familiar American type.
 ''He buys into the precepts of American Exceptionalism, which portrays the 20th century as the story of American visionary leadership,'' said Andrew Bacevich, a professor of international relations at Boston University. ''What strikes me is how utterly conventional it is.''
 Mr. Obama will define his philosophy, the professor says, by how he practices statecraft. 
 ''I doubt seriously he has a fully formed worldview yet,'' he said. ''There will be an internal fight for the mind and soul of President Obama.''
 Changing Views
 Like a cutter holding aloft a stone, Cass Sunstein has viewed Mr. Obama's thinking from many sides. Months ago, the senator called Mr. Sunstein at the University of Chicago, seeking his counsel on President Bush's assertion of the authority to conduct warrantless surveillance.
 Mr. Sunstein had written that such surveillance could be lawful. For 20 minutes, the men examined presidential war powers. Mr. Obama told him he was against the wiretaps and just wanted to understand his side. But months later, after wrapping up the nomination, Mr. Obama changed sides, saying that the Senate had put in place safeguards and that he would no longer abide by a vow to filibuster the bill. 
 Many liberals were infuriated; several legal advisers, like the Harvard professor Laurence H. Tribe, disagreed. ''He is pretty pragmatic,'' Mr. Tribe said. ''But that decision was perplexing to me.''
 Mr. Sunstein saw a Mr. Obama who was disinclined to see opponents as constitutional marauders.
 ''Obama doesn't like telling people that their deepest theoretical commitments are wrong -- he is a visionary minimalist,'' Mr. Sunstein said.
 Although, as more than one adviser to Mr. Obama noted, such a description raises that core question again: 
 As oil prices spiral and housing prices tumble, as Russia flexes its muscles after a long slumber and China asserts a claim and the globe heats up, will the ''visionary minimalist'' feel emboldened to offer grand guidance? 
 ''He is not rooted in the way of a lot of politicians; we don't know what his precise philosophy will be,'' said Alan Brinkley, provost and professor of American history at Columbia University. ''We just see these interesting shards.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama campaigned Sunday at Rod and Gun Park in Eau Claire, Wis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); ABORTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (78%); GUN CONTROL (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); IMMUNITY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); HOMICIDE (73%); CAPITAL CRIMES (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); LITERARY CRITICISM (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); LITERATURE (65%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (53%); RELIGION (53%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BOB CASEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



631 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: At the Fed, a Debate Over Countering Inflation Grows Louder

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo. 

 BODY:
With the decline in oil prices, inflationary pressures are easing for the moment. The Federal Reserve's policy makers all acknowledge as much. But that has not halted their debate over whether to raise interest rates now to avoid higher inflation in the future.
 The issue moved to a broader forum over the weekend: the Fed's annual gathering in this mountain resort. The event drew central bankers and economists from abroad, the latter sometimes quite critical of what America's central bank has done.
 ''The Fed overreacted to the slowdown in economic activity,'' Willem H. Buiter, a professor of European political economy at the London School of Economics and Political Science, declared in his presentation, offering harsh criticism of his hosts. The Fed, he added, ''cut the official policy rate too fast and too far and risked its reputation for being serious about inflation.'' 
 Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, rejects that thinking, as do a majority of the Fed's policy makers. They argue -- and several of them repeated their arguments in interviews here that were mostly off the record -- that they had no choice but to cut the key lending rate that the Fed controls to 2 percent from 5.25 percent in just eight months. Otherwise, they said, the housing and credit crises would have resulted in much more damage to the economy. 
 Now, they argue, the so-called federal funds rate must be kept at 2 percent -- for no one knows how long -- so that banks and other lenders can borrow at low rates and lend at higher ones, using their fattened earnings from this process to rebuild the capital they need. The banks' capital eroded as numerous loans made during the bubble years went bad and were written off, reducing their ability and willingness to lend to the public.
 ''Lenders have been hit by a shock so severe that they are contracting and withdrawing from private sector lending,'' Janet L. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said in an interview.
 The view expressed by Professor Buiter, however -- that a central bank's overriding concern should be fighting inflation, while a sinking economy is left to be refloated by other means -- is welcome thinking for the five or so Fed policy makers, all of them presidents of regional Fed banks, who say that the Fed must begin to raise rates right away. 
 Mr. Bernanke, in a speech here, said that inflation is likely to moderate as commodity prices come down and the dollar stabilizes. But the Fed bank presidents who want a rate increase now say that he is missing the point. Unless the Fed takes action, they say, people will lose faith in it as a guardian against a rising inflation rate.
 When prices do begin to rise, according to their argument, instead of counting on the Fed to stop the process, the American public will ask for and somehow get higher wages to afford the rising prices. Employers will respond by pushing up prices even more -- unless the Fed snuffs out this inflationary spiral, or any chance of it, by raising rates, starting now. 
 ''These hawks at the Fed are arguing in effect that we have to throw people out of work more quickly than we already are to ensure against inflation,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief domestic economist at Goldman Sachs.
 So far, only one of the policy makers is pushing for higher rates. Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, has voted for a rate increase at recent Fed policy-making meetings, casting the lone dissenting vote among the Fed's 11 voting governors and regional bank presidents. The other dissenters have voted with the majority to keep the key federal funds rate at 2 percent, actions that have muted their criticism of this approach.
 Now, however, Charles I. Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, is likely to join Mr. Fisher. Twice in the past, Mr. Plosser had cast a dissenting vote along with Mr. Fisher, the last time at the April 30 meeting, when the policy makers completed their rate cuts, bringing the federal funds rate to 2 percent. Ever since, he has voted with the majority and in doing so, he has maintained a silence that he says he intends to end soon. 
 ''If we don't reverse our accommodative stance sooner rather than later,'' Mr. Plosser said in an interview here, ''we will face rising inflation, which may be costly to deal with, and we will face a risk to the Fed's credibility to contain inflation.''
 In the Fed culture, two dissenting votes at one of its closed-door meetings (the next is Sept. 16) are considered a challenge to the chairman's authority, raising eyebrows on Wall Street. Three dissents in the past were enough to sink a chairman.
 Mr. Plosser argues, however, that Mr. Bernanke, breaking with the practices of past chairmen, encourages differing views, and Mr. Plosser's dissenting vote, rather than challenging Mr. Bernanke's authority, would help to communicate the differences that exist among the policy makers.
 ''Dissent serves a function of illuminating for the public the nature of the policy debates,'' Mr. Plosser said. 
 A big issue in that debate is whether a 2 percent federal funds rate is ''accommodative,'' as Mr. Plosser put it. Those in his camp argue that it is low enough to encourage people to borrow and spend. Companies would respond to this surge in spending by raising prices, and hence the inflation rate would rise. 
 The Bernanke camp, in sharp contrast, asserts that 2 percent is anything but accommodative. The nation's banks and other lenders are indeed borrowing at that rate, to rebuild their capital, but they are lending to consumers at much higher rates -- 5 to 6 percent, or more. The large spread signals that the lenders would prefer not to lend at all rather than to risk new loans that, like so many of the old ones, will not be repaid.
 The dissenters at the Fed ''don't seem to place much emphasis on the importance of keeping rates low to offset the wide spreads,'' said Lawrence H. Meyer, vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers and a former Fed governor.
 Still, they have the support of Professor Buiter and some other economists -- European and American -- who argued over the weekend that central banks should concern themselves only with inflation, and not the additional task of maintaining economic growth, as the Fed is required by law to do.
 Indeed, while the Fed has cut the federal funds rate drastically over the last year, the European Central Bank has added a quarter of a percentage point to its equivalent of the federal funds rate, suggesting to many that Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European bank, must be critical of Mr. Bernanke's failure to embrace an anti-inflation approach.
 Mr. Trichet was here over the weekend, and at one of the sessions, he publicly supported the Bernanke approach. Europe, he said, has not yet been hit with ''the volume of shocks'' to its economy that the United States has suffered, and if he were in Mr. Bernanke's shoes, he would do as the Fed chairman has done.
 ''I do not agree that the Fed is too accommodative,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); MOUNTAINS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



632 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: The Race Isn't About Race

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai, a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine, is the author of ''The Argument: Inside the Battle to Remake Democratic Politics.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 LIKE so much in his presidential campaign, Barack Obama's search for a running mate was shadowed by the specter of race. 
 In the weeks leading up to his decision, as a flurry of new polls showed Mr. Obama and John McCain to be almost deadlocked, many Democrats and some members of the news media embraced a new article of faith: Lower-income white voters are resisting Mr. Obama's candidacy principally because he is African-American. ''Where he's lagging is among white voters, and with older ones in particular,'' John Heilemann wrote in New York magazine this month. ''Call me crazy, but isn't it possible, just possible, that Obama's lead is being inhibited by the fact that he is, you know, black?'' 
 Each of the reported finalists for the No. 2 spot on the Democratic ticket -- Tim Kaine, the governor of Virginia, Evan Bayh, a senator from Indiana, and, of course, Mr. Biden -- was considered to be the kind of vice-presidential nominee who could build a bridge to skeptical white men. The thinking among leading Democrats, and perhaps even inside the campaign itself, was that Mr. Obama needed a running mate who was also a validator, some earthy white guy who could say, effectively, of the party's presidential nominee, ''This dude's as American as I am.''
 Once Mr. Biden's name was announced, commentators were quick to note that not only does he bring the ticket a well-earned expertise on foreign affairs, but he also possesses an ability to relate to working-class white men. Mr. Biden's coming-out speech in Springfield, Ill., was heavy on allusions to his Irish-Catholic roots in Scranton, Pa., and to the ''cops and firefighters, the teachers and the line workers'' with whom he grew up. 
 No doubt the unpretentious, politically incorrect Mr. Biden will make a strong impression on white, working-class voters. The only hitch in this plan is that there's plenty of reason to think that Mr. Obama's race is not the insurmountable detriment to his candidacy that a lot of anxious observers believe it is.
 The theory that race is holding back Mr. Obama's candidacy rests on a pretty simple premise. Adherents argue that the Democratic candidate ought to be effortlessly leading by double digits in the polls at this point -- and that his failure to do so can only be explained by latent racism among older voters.
 After all, this thinking goes, the Republican president suffers from abysmal approval ratings, and even half-witted voters should be able to see that Mr. Obama is a superior candidate to Mr. McCain, were their views not clouded by race. 
 These are flawed assumptions, however. While it's entirely possible that Mr. Obama's race is costing him some support, it's also true that the electorate that voted in the last two presidential elections was almost symmetrically divided between the two parties. It would defy the laws of politics if, at this early stage of the campaign, moderate Republicans and conservative independents were to reject Mr. McCain (a candidate many of them preferred back in 2000) simply because they don't like George W. Bush. 
 Second, Mr. Obama faces genuine obstacles that are more salient than skin color. By any historical measure, he has remarkably little governing experience and almost none in foreign policy. And he represents not only a racial milestone in American life, but also a stark generational shift. It's hard to extricate these things from Obama's blackness. (If older white voters recoiled at Mr. Obama when he exchanged a fist-bump with his wife, were they reacting to his youth or to his race?) There are legitimate reasons that some older white voters might reserve judgment on Mr. Obama without being closet racists.
 Proponents of the racial explanation for the closeness of the campaign point to a New York Times/CBS poll last month in which 19 percent of white voters said that most of the people they know wouldn't vote for a black candidate. Pollsters assume that these answers are really a proxy for voters' own racial biases. And yet in that same poll, 16 percent of black voters said the same thing -- which indicates that the answers reflect suspicions about other people's racism more than the bigotry of the respondents. 
 It would be naive to suggest that race won't figure in the election. But the danger for Democrats is that dark prophesies of prejudice could be self-fulfilling. 
 Ever since 2000, a lot of so-called progressives have proudly displayed a healthy contempt for less-educated white voters who cast ballots in defiance of their ''economic self-interest,'' as Thomas Frank argued in ''What's the Matter With Kansas?'' (The widespread acceptance of Mr. Frank's thesis is how John Kerry largely escaped the scorn that is ritually visited upon losing Democratic presidential nominees; the members of his party directed their exasperation at the voters instead.) But surely caricaturing a large subset of voters as ignorant has made those voters even less inclined to pull the lever for the Democrats this time around. All this talk about racism isn't likely to help.
 After showcasing their new ticket at their convention in Denver this week, Democrats may well see, at long last, the significant boost in the polls for which they have been waiting. But if Joe Biden's selection does anything to help break the stalemate, it will be because he is a serious foreign-policy thinker and a voice of experience, not because he is somehow reassuring to narrow-minded white voters. 
 There are plenty of reasons to think Mr. Biden will make a strong running mate. Rampant racism, real or alleged, isn't one of them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MEN (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); RACE & RACISM (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIM KAINE (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); EVAN BAYH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (68%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



633 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: A Joe Of His Own?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
 The anguished cries of Hillary supporters pierced the midday calm here on Saturday, as Barack Obama confirmed that his vice presidential choice was not Clinton, who got about 18 million votes this year running against him, but rather Joe Biden, who gained the support of a few thousand caucusgoers in Iowa before dropping out of the race.
 (OK, I didn't personally hear any anguished cries from my work space near the Pepsi Center. But I'm an empathetic guy -- I felt as if I could hear them.) 
 McCain operatives were pleased by the Biden selection, which they considered, as one said to me, ''a pick from weakness.'' Still, it complicates McCain's vice presidential calculations.
 The two leading G.O.P. prospects have been Tim Pawlenty, the Minnesota governor, and Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor. But with Biden's foreign policy experience as a contrast, could McCain assure voters that the young Pawlenty is ready to take over, if need be, as commander in chief? Also, Biden is a strong and experienced debater. Pawlenty is unproven. If he is the choice, there will be many anxious Republicans in the run-up to the vice presidential debate in St. Louis on Oct. 2.
 Romney might match up better against Biden in debate. But it's clear that the Obama-Biden campaign is moving aggressively to embrace a traditional Democratic populist economic message. Such a message will have appeal this year -- especially, one supposes, against a doubly multimansioned G.O.P. ticket of McCain and Romney.
 If not Pawlenty or Romney, how about a woman, whose selection would presumably appeal to the aforementioned anguished Hillary supporters? It's awfully tempting for the McCain camp to revisit the possibility of tapping Meg Whitman, the former eBay C.E.O., Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, or Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska. But the first two have never run for office, and Palin has been governor for less than two years.
 So what's to be done? McCain could well decide the obstacles to Pawlenty and Romney aren't insuperable, and pick one of them. He could choose a different Republican governor or ex-governor, senator or congressman. Or he could decide that Obama's conventional pick of Biden allows him to seize the moment by making a bold choice. He could select the person he would really like to have by his side in the White House -- but whose selection would cause palpitations among many of his staffers and supporters: the independent Democratic senator from Connecticut, Joe Lieberman.
 Lieberman could hold his own against Biden in a debate. He would reinforce McCain's overall message of foreign policy experience and hawkishness. He's a strong and disciplined candidate.
 But he is pro-abortion rights, and having been a Democrat all his life, he has a moderately liberal voting record on lots of issues.
 Now as a matter of governance, there's no reason to think this would much matter. McCain has made clear his will be a pro-life administration. And as a one-off, quasi-national-unity ticket, with Lieberman renouncing any further ambition to run for the presidency, a McCain-Lieberman administration wouldn't threaten the continuance of the G.O.P. as a pro-life party. In other areas, no one seriously thinks the policies of a McCain-Lieberman administration would be appreciably different from those, say, of a McCain-Pawlenty administration.
 Would McCain-Lieberman have a better prospect of winning than the more conventional alternatives? If they could get over the early hurdles of a messy convention and an awful lot of conservative angst and anger, I've come to think so.
 Obama and Biden will try to frame the presidential race as a normal Democratic-Republican choice. If they can do that, they should win. That would be far more difficult against a McCain-Lieberman ticket. The charge that McCain would merely mean a third Bush term would also tend to fall flat. And an unorthodox ''country first'' Lieberman selection would reinforce what has been attractive about McCain, and what has allowed him to run ahead of -- though not yet enough ahead of -- the generic Republican ballot.
 A Lieberman pick should help with ticket splitters. But can such a ticket hold the support of pro-lifers, conservatives and Republicans? If you're conscientiously pro-life, you will have reservations about a pro-abortion-rights V.P. If you're a proud conservative, Lieberman hasn't been one. If you're a loyal Republican, you'd much prefer someone from within the ranks.
 But if you're pro-life, conservative and/or Republican, you certainly don't want Barack Obama, Joe Biden, Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid running the country. If a McCain-Lieberman ticket is the best way to thwart that prospect, you could probably learn to live with it -- even perhaps to like it.
 And Hillary supporters could protest Obama's glass ceiling by voting for John McCain and the Democratic Party's 2000 vice presidential nominee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (79%); JOE BIDEN (79%); TIM PAWLENTY (79%); SARAH PALIN (58%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (53%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008



634 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Rise, But the Prices Are Lower

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
More Americans waded into the housing market last month, lured by falling prices that helped send sales to their highest level since February.
 At least a third of properties bought in July involved foreclosed homes snapped up at bargain-basement prices or homes sold at a loss by owners who had no alternative, according to the private National Association of Realtors. 
 These so-called distressed sales helped depress home values across the country, feeding into a downdraft that is making it increasingly difficult for many Americans to sell their homes for more than they paid. 
 Prices of previously owned homes were 7.1 percent lower in July than a year earlier, the association reported on Monday, with the median value falling to $212,400, from $215,100 in June.
 And there were signs that prices would continue to spiral downward for months to come. The number of homes and apartments for sale jumped 3.9 percent in July, adding to the supply glut that has bedeviled the housing market for months. 
 Sales of previously owned homes, which make up most of the nation's housing supply, rose 3.1 percent in July, the biggest monthly increase since February 2007. Sales are running at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of five million units, the fastest in five months.
 The figures suggested to some economists that the bulk of the decline in home sales had already occurred. 
 ''Sales are down substantially from the peak, and they seem to be bouncing around what looks like a bottom,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the research and trading firm ITG. 
 ''The concern a lot of us have is, relative to last year, a large number of transactions involve houses that have been foreclosed on,'' Mr. Barbera said.
 ''It's cold comfort to know that the banks are succeeding on selling their houses at prices that are pretty breathtaking,'' he said, referring to banks that have repossessed foreclosed homes from owners who could not pay their mortgages.
 Indeed, a big portion of those sales -- 33 percent to 40 percent -- stemmed from properties where owners were forced to sell at a loss, the association said. For many owners, desperation appeared to be driving sales, which means prices are not likely to rise anytime soon.
 A year ago, sales of distressed properties made up less than 10 percent of total sales, said Lawrence Yun, chief economist of the association. 
 Distressed sales once accounted for so few transactions that economists for the association did not even measure them as a separate category until this year. But in July, the sales made up their largest percentage to date. 
 ''In places like California or Florida, many of the homes that are listed for sale can be classified as distressed,'' Mr. Yun said.
 And many Americans may be waiting for prices to drop even further. The wave of foreclosures, coupled with tighter lending standards, has scared off many would-be purchasers from the market, which has entered its worst slump in decades.
 ''There is still a considerable distance to travel before prices sink to levels necessary to balance supply and demand in the housing market,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief domestic economist at the research firm MFR, wrote in a note.
 Sales last month were 13.2 percent below the 5.76 million annual pace in July 2007.
 Demand may be slightly higher for condominiums and co-op apartments, sales of which rose 3.4 percent in July. Sales of previously owned single-family homes were up 3.1 percent for the month.
 Apartment prices also fared slightly better, declining 2.7 percent from a year ago. The median price fell to $223,400, from $225,900 in June. 
 In the West, sales were actually higher than they were a year ago, making it the only region in the country with an annual increase. Western sales rose 9.7 percent in July; they were up 5.9 percent in the Northeast, 0.9 percent in the Midwest, and declined 0.5 percent in the South. 
 At the current sales rate, it would take 11.2 months to work off the entire supply of previously owned homes on the market.
 On Tuesday, Standard & Poor's will release its Case-Shiller home price index for June, considered the most reliable indicator of the nation's home values. The Commerce Department will also release figures for sales of newly constructed homes in July.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing singlefamily homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted.(Source: National Association of Realtors)(pg. C4) Chart details bar and line graph for May, June and July.(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REPOSSESSION (77%); STATISTICS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



635 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Deadly Pathogen Harms Florida Citrus Groves

BYLINE: By DAVID KARP

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE, Fla. 

 BODY:
On a recent sultry morning, Peter McClure, who manages 8,000 acres of citrus in the prime Indian River region here, surveyed an orange grove riddled with gaps. He pointed to a tangled brown pile of dead trees and said, ''Scientists have 10 years at the most to find a solution, or there's not going to be a citrus industry in Florida.''
 The world's most destructive citrus disease is threatening the groves of Florida, the largest domestic producer of these fruits. The disease, which obstructs the flow of nutrients in citrus trees, originated more than a century ago in southern China, where it was named huanglongbing, or ''yellow shoot disease,'' after a typical symptom. 
 It also goes under the common name of greening, because many fruits remain green and are lopsided and bitter. Infected trees die within several years.
 The form in Florida is associated with a bacterium, Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus, that is transmitted by a tiny insect, the Asian citrus psyllid (Diaphorina citri), which thrives on young citrus leaves.
 Since it was first recognized in the United States -- near Miami in 2005 -- the disease has spread across Florida. Timothy R. Gottwald, an epidemiologist with the federal Department of Agriculture, has projected that virtually all the state's citrus trees will be infected in 7 to 12 years. 
 The methods now used to control the disease -- spraying to kill psyllids and removing infected trees -- have proved inadequate. Many farmers are not replanting, because young, vigorous trees attract psyllids.
 To save their $9 billion industry, Florida citrus growers have shifted money to a huge research program from advertising. Spending will triple to $20 million next year and support more than 100 research projects, said Mr. McClure, who is chairman of the Florida Citrus Production Research Advisory Council.
 Greening is so destructive that in 2003 the Department of Agriculture listed Cd. L. asiaticus among the potential bioterror tools called ''select agents,'' restricting access to F.B.I.-vetted researchers and secure greenhouses. Now that the disease is endemic in Florida, these controls chiefly hinder research, and the department proposed a year ago to declassify Cd. L. asiaticus. 
 This month, Florida citrus scientists discovered they could apply for more exemptions to the select agent rules, which could be crucial for expanding research pending declassification. 
 The greening pathogen has proved extremely difficult to cultivate in the laboratory, because it is so exacting in its nutritional requirements, said Michael J. Davis, a University of Florida plant pathologist who has co-cultured Cd. L. asiaticus with another bacterium. In late July he observed the bacterium under a light microscope for the first time, and he is optimistic he will culture it by itself. (Some scientists, however, suspect that the disease may be caused by the interaction of multiple bacteria.)
 Researchers at the department's laboratory here in Fort Pierce are sequencing the pathogen's genome. They have mapped the genome in fragments, which they are trying to assemble into a consistent whole, Dr. Gottwald said. 
 On a broader scale, an international consortium led by Fred Gmitter Jr. of the University of Florida is sequencing the genome of an important host, clementine. That genome map should be complete by December 2009, he said.
 Scientists expect that successful culturing and sequencing will facilitate studies of interactions between the host, the bacteria and the insect that acts as a carrier or vector of the disease. It is expected to suggest strategies to interfere with the genetic expression of the disease, and aid in development of diagnostic tools. 
 Growers urgently need such tools for early detection, because infected trees may not show symptoms for months or years, during which they are contagious. Current molecular diagnostic tests do not detect the disease soon enough to stop its spread, but Abhaya Dandekar of the University of California, Davis, is working on an electronic nose to identify volatile organic compounds produced by infected trees. 
 Oranges and grapefruits, Florida's main citrus crops, are susceptible to greening, while lemons and some limes seem tolerant, said William Dawson of the University of Florida. Breeders would like to hybridize new varieties fully resistant to greening, but have not identified any resistant citrus species for making crosses, which would take decades to bear useful results. 
 Intriguingly, however, Dr. Gmitter is working with scientists in southern China to study a few trees that appear to be thriving in severely infected groves.
 Most scientists think the most promising long-term strategy is to transform commercial varieties genetically to make them resistant. Jude W. Grosser of the University of Florida has inserted genes that confer bacterial resistance into more than 100 citrus plants. 
 In a greenhouse protected with barbed wire, he showed a two-foot-tall transgenic grapefruit tree that had been inoculated with diseased budwood a year ago, but had remained symptomless and tested negative for the disease. While the introduction of genetically modified citrus would be controversial, Dr. Grosser maintained that ''it'll probably come down to the point where people have to decide whether they want orange juice or not.''
 Similarly, economists fear that if Florida citrus plantings decline too much below the current level, roughly 530,000 bearing acres, the infrastructure vital to the industry, like processing plants and packing houses, will close.
 To keep Florida's citrus industry going, William S. Castle of the University of Florida is working with growers to test an ''advanced production system'' using closely spaced, intensively managed trees that bear heavier crops at an earlier age, so farmers can make a profit before their trees die. South African growers have coped with greening this way for many years, but it remains to be seen if the model will work under Florida's conditions.
 Scientists visiting Vietnam observed that some citrus groves interplanted with guava trees survived while others without guavas died of greening. Dr. Gottwald is preparing a 60-acre test planting to see if this protective effect works in Florida. 
 Interplanting thousands of acres with guavas may be impractical, but a team including Lukasz L. Stelinski of the University of Florida has identified the compound in guava foliage that repels psyllids, and is working on a synthesized, controlled-release spray to protect groves. It should be available within two years, he said.
 ''There may be no single solution, no silver bullet,'' Mr. McClure said. ''What we hope to find is four or five brass bullets. But we've got to hurry, because I don't want to find a solution for a dead industry.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 27, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Tuesday with an article about a disease threatening the citrus groves of Florida carried an erroneous credit, and a second picture was not credited. The photograph of misshapen fruit was by the University of Florida, Citrus Research and Education Center -- not by Michael Rogers/University of Florida, via Associated Press. And the picture of the Asian citrus psyllid, the insect that transmits the harmful bacterium, was by Michael Rogers/University of California, via Associated Press. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOING GREEN: A destructive citrus disease spread by the Asian citrus psyllid, left, obstructs nutrients in trees. Fruit stays green and is lopsided and bitter.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL ROGERS/UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITRUS GROVES (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); BACTERIA (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (87%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (87%); ORANGE GROVES (78%); BOTANY (77%); NUTRITION (76%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (71%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); TERRORISM (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (63%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); SOUTH CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



636 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Billionaire's Albany Reform Group Puts Its Money Behind 39 Incumbent Senators

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
A political organization backed by the billionaire Tom Golisano made dozens of new endorsements on Monday in Senate races across the state, each candidate a potential beneficiary of the $5 million Mr. Golisano has said he will spend to influence the fall elections.
 The new round of endorsements offered only a few clues to Mr. Golisano's political strategy. Although the Rochester-based businessman has declared that he wants to shake up Albany's political class, his organization, Responsible New York, endorsed 39 incumbents, a solid majority of the 62-member Senate. 
 Moreover, though some Democrats hold out hope that Mr. Golisano privately favors their effort to win control of the Senate for the first time in decades, the list is closely divided between Democrats and Republicans.
 Mr. Golisano, a three-time candidate for governor, founded the group last month to press for reducing state spending, distributing more economic development aid to upstate and overhauling the state's campaign finance laws, among other causes. 
 Depending on how he spends it, Mr. Golisano's $5 million pledge could significantly affect the battle for control of the Senate. The Democratic and Republican Senate campaign committees had raised about $7.5 million, combined, as of last month. Under existing law, Mr. Golisano's organization can spend an unlimited amount of money in any race so long as the group does not coordinate with any candidate or party committee. (Paradoxically, that is a law Mr. Golisano is expected to try to change.)
 Steven Pigeon, an adviser to Mr. Golisano and a former Erie County Democratic chairman, said the group had begun advertising or organizing in seven Senate races, including those of four Democratic candidates in races for Republican-held seats in western New York that are likely to be pivotal in determining control of the Senate next year. 
 ''We did a lot of challengers, but there aren't a lot of contested races,'' Mr. Pigeon said. ''We've endorsed challengers in most of the contested races. For the incumbents, we plan on being around for a while and watching what they do.''
 Among the new names on Mr. Golisano's list are Kathy Konst, a Democrat running against Dale M. Volker, a Republican incumbent from the Buffalo area who was first elected in 1975.
 In northern New York, Mr. Golisano will support Darrel J. Aubertine, a first-term Democratic senator who won an upset victory in a special election in a district around Watertown in February. He is considered a top Republican target this November. 
 Joe Conway, a Senate Republican campaign spokesman, said, ''Regardless of whether they receive an endorsement or not, our incumbents and challengers are all staying focused on bringing reform to Albany, and ensuring a balanced, fiscally responsible government.'' 
 Mr. Golisano's group did not issue an endorsement in several downstate Senate races that are closely contested but far from Mr. Golisano's home base in western New York, where his business ventures and philanthropy have made him a respected figure. For example, the group did not back either Serphin R. Maltese, a Queens Republican who is considered the most vulnerable Republican incumbent, or his Democratic challenger, Joseph P. Addabbo Jr., a city councilman.
 ''These kind of groups, looking to multiple elections, try to build a reputation,'' said Grant Reeher, a political science professor at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse. That meant, he said, that Mr. Golisano would avoid picking sides in close races where he might have minimal effect. 
 ''When you're starting out, you are careful to try to choose the right ones,'' Dr. Reeher added.
 Doug Forand, a Senate Democratic strategist, said: ''The endorsements carry a lot of weight upstate. It's still an open question where he spends his money. All in all, though, there are people he has endorsed on our side who are really committed to reforming Albany.''
 The Golisano committee has already begun spending money in support of Martin E. Connor, a Brooklyn Democrat, former minority leader in the Senate and an election lawyer who was a consultant in Mr. Golisano's campaigns for governor and is now facing a primary challenge. 
 The group has also begun spending money to support two Republican Senate candidates: Assemblyman Roy McDonald, who is running for the seat recently relinquished by Joseph L. Bruno, the former Senate majority leader, in the Troy and Saratoga area, and Senator James L. Seward, a Republican incumbent from central New York.
 Neither of those races is considered likely to produce a Democratic victory, however. Mr. Golisano's early spending appears to be focused on western New York, where his influence is greatest, and mostly in support of Democrats challenging Republican incumbents.
 ''The surprise entrance of Tom Golisano into the State Senate contests opens a potential northwest passage for the four Democratic challengers he is supporting in western New York,'' said Bruce N. Gyory, a political consultant and a former adviser to Gov. David A. Paterson. ''If he adds millions in independent expenditures to his own regional prestige, he creates a whole new theater of combat in western New York that did not exist a year ago.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); GOVERNORS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



637 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Consulate Official Escapes Pakistan Attack

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Gunmen fired at the chief American diplomat in the northern city of Peshawar on Tuesday morning as her armored car was leaving her residence to take her to the United States Consulate, the police said. 
 The diplomat, Lynne Tracy, the principal officer at the consulate, was unharmed. The car, which had barely left the residence grounds when the shots were fired, immediately returned to the house, the police said.
 The shooting came as Peshawar, one of Pakistan's biggest cities, is increasingly threatened by the Taliban, who virtually control the nearby tribal areas. Ms. Tracy regularly leaves her home about 8 a.m. for the office, and it appears the gunmen knew her routine, a Western official said.
 In a statement, a spokesman for the American Embassy in Islamabad, Lou Fintor, said: ''There was a security incident in Peshawar this morning involving a U.S. consulate vehicle.'' The statement said three employees were in the car.
 Ms. Tracy lives in an area called University Town, which is considered one of the safest in Peshawar. It is an area of substantial homes guarded by security men and high walls. The consulate is about a mile away.
 About 30 Americans are attached to the consulate. They work on aid programs, drug control and in military liaison with the Pakistani military.
 A current focus of the consulate is a $750 million program intended to provide economic development to counter the influence of the Taliban in the tribal areas nearby. A number of Americans who work on that aid program but who are not officially employees of the consulate live in the city.
 Since Pakistan joined the Bush administration in the campaign against terrorism after 9/11, American diplomats have worked under strict security conditions, and are advised not to travel outside the major cities.
 Two Americans were killed in 2002, when gunmen attacked a Protestant church inside the diplomatic enclave, a relatively secure area, in Islamabad. In 2006, an American diplomat at the consulate in Karachi, Pakistan's largest city, was killed.
 In the last year, suicide bombers have attacked Pakistani military targets in Peshawar. Last week, the Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility for a suicide bomber who struck a bus carrying Pakistani Air Force personnel, killing 14 people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (95%); TALIBAN (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); TERRORISM (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (75%); AIR FORCES (72%); ARMED FORCES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); COUNTERTERRORISM (63%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (57%) UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



638 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Where Tradition Has Ruled, a Home for Contemporary Art

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Anupam Poddar had a living room once.
These days the sofa is shoved into a corner, and the rest of the big square space is taken up by a life-size model of an antique cream-colored Jaguar with a giant mechanical dinosaur mounting it from behind. On the dining table sits a row of exquisitely delicate sculptures made of human bone and red velvet. A video installation has found a home above a bathroom tub.
For Mr. Poddar, 34, buying art long ago stopped being a question of what to hang on which wall. Installations, many of them large and provocative, squeezed themselves into each room, across the garden, in the driveway and in every lavatory.
''It just took over my life. I had to throw out most of my furniture,'' Mr. Poddar confessed. ''It became an obsession. The term hobby is too tame. It almost controls you.'' 
The private obsession Mr. Poddar shares with his mother, Lekha, who lives downstairs, is about to become a public boon. What they have collected separately and together over the last 30 years will be exhibited in a new space in the suburb of Gurgaon, what will be, in effect, India's first contemporary art museum.
Spread over two floors and 7,500 square feet in an office tower, the Devi Art Foundation, as it is called, is due to open on Saturday, with an inaugural show of photography and video called ''Still Moving Image.'' It features the work of 25 artists, a fraction of the roughly 2,000 contemporary pieces that make up Mr. Poddar's collection, along with an estimated 5,000 folk and tribal pieces, which are his mother's passion.
India is bursting with commercial art galleries, but Devi is poised to be what the Poddars' home has been for many years: a noncommercial, nonprofit exhibition space for contemporary art from India and the subcontinent. Yamini Mehta, director of modern and contemporary Indian art at Christie's auction house in London, described it as ''a truly groundbreaking first for India.''
In a way, Devi (online at www.deviartfoundation.org) is the natural next step for a country awash in new wealth, soaring art prices and a prolific crop of artists and collectors. Think of it as India's turn to do what the United States did in the early 20th century, when wealthy patrons came together to give birth to some of the most important American cultural institutions. India is not there yet, cautions Vishakha N. Desai, the India-born president of Asia Society in New York, but perhaps heading in that direction.
''I would very much hope that like-minded people will come together to build larger civic institutions that go beyond any individual collector or founder,'' Ms. Desai said in an e-mail message.
A modern art museum is also under way in the eastern city of Calcutta. Herzog & de Meuron, the Swiss architecture firm that built the Tate Modern in London, is designing it. Construction is to start next year, and the museum is to open in late 2013, said Rakhi Sarkar, a collector there and one of the driving forces behind the museum.
To be sure, there have always been art collectors in India, from erstwhile royalty to the old Indian business families like the Poddars. But the last decade of economic growth has thrust many new buyers into the art market, spurred on art funds that invest in paintings as one might in, say, soybean shares, and in turn sent prices shooting up almost overnight.
All the while, a handful of wealthy Indians have been collecting with serious, singular purpose. Harsh Goenka, who heads a family-owned conglomerate based in Mumbai, has a special yen for portraits. Priti and Priya Paul, sisters who run the Apeejay Group of businesses, have built on their family's collections: Priti's passion is video art, while Priya's is popular art like old calendars, advertisements and film memorabilia.
The birth of the Devi Art Foundation signals a sort of turning point in the Indian art scene, in that it opens up a private family trove to the public and is devoted entirely to contemporary art.
The Poddars are known in the art world here for their daring eye, for seeking out artists before they start fetching high prices or become recognizable names at fashionable Delhi dinner parties. Mr. Poddar scouts art college graduations for new talent, though it must be said that many of the artists he sought out years ago, like Subodh Gupta and Sudarshan Shetty, are now among the most recognizable names at those fashionable parties.
''While most collectors in India still 'buy with their ears,' '' said Peter Nagy, a transplanted New Yorker who runs the Nature Morte gallery here, ''the Poddars have always listened to their hearts and brains and have never been afraid to be independent in their choices.''
Mr. Poddar, whose day job is running an upscale hotel company, admits to being inspired by his mother, who began collecting modern and folk art several decades ago. Except that the work his mother sought out, including pieces by the post-Indian-independence generation of artists known as the Progressives, did not resonate with the son. He gravitated toward artists of his own generation.
''Their vision of India was similar to mine,'' he said. ''It was being part of this -- I hate this word -- global world. It wasn't just India. It wasn't so isolated. They were working with sculpture, installation, with new media.''
His first acquisition, in 1999, was a life-size pink fiberglass cow by Mr. Gupta. ''It was quintessentially Indian but modern in its essence,'' he said. ''That's what spoke to me.''
The obsession flowered quickly. Each room became a gallery devoted to one artist. Bharti Kher's work now takes up his mother's bedroom, including an elephant covered in squiggly, sperm-shaped bindis, which Indian women use as adornments on the forehead.
The Jaguar-dinosaur in the living room is a 2006 piece by Mr. Shetty that Mr. Poddar describes as ''an overgrown toy.'' With the flick of a switch, the dinosaur's heart throbs and it mates with the Jaguar. Mr. Gupta made a cow-dung cave that sits in the dining room. Mrs. Poddar said it stank when it first arrived, freshly assembled. Sometimes her dog nibbled on it.
Mr. Poddar acquired the bone and velvet series, by Anita Dube, from its previous owner, whose family did not want it displayed at home, which is understandable. One of the pieces is a human rib cage fashioned into a bordello-style red velvet fan. It found pride of place on the dining table here -- in a vegetarian household, no less.
Art, Mr. Poddar is fond of saying, is something you have to live with no matter how provocative. ''You can't avoid it. Also, it's not safe.'' Sometimes, he said, he wonders why he hadn't taken up gardening instead.
The government-run National Gallery of Modern Art, which has sites here and in Mumbai, only rarely shows contemporary work. At Devi, the schedule next year includes a show of Pakistani art and one of folk and tribal art from across India.
''There is no commercial angle,'' Mrs. Poddar said. ''We don't have to be afraid.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anupam Poddar and his mother, Lekha Poddar, are among the leading collectors of contemporary art from India.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(E1)
A piece from Navin Thomas's ''Still Asleep Series,'' which will be featured in an inaugural show of photography and video at the Devi Art Foundation.
 ''It's a Routine Scrutiny'' by Susanta Mandal, from the vast collection of Anupam Poddar and his mother, Lekha.(PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE DEVI ART FOUNDATION)(E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ART COLLECTING (76%); SCULPTURE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (89%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



639 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Honda Stays True to Efficient Driving

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
TORRANCE, Calif. -- During the glory days of big pickups and sport utility vehicles, one automaker steadfastly refused to join the party.
Despite the huge profits that its competitors were minting by making larger vehicles, Honda Motor never veered from its mission of building fuel-efficient, environmentally friendly cars like its Accord sedan.
''I remember being at the Tokyo Motor Show in the mid-1990s and talking about the environment,'' said Ben Knight, head of engineering at Honda's North American division. ''The reaction was there's no return on that.''
But in today's fuel-conscious automotive market, Honda is reaping the rewards for its commitment. 
No major automaker in America is doing better than Honda, whose sales are up 3 percent for the first seven months of this year in a market that has fallen 11 percent. By comparison, General Motors is down nearly 18 percent, Ford Motor has dropped 14 percent, and Toyota has slid 7 percent.
While competitors are scrambling to shift their product lineups to build more small vehicles and slash their bloated inventories of trucks, Honda can barely keep up with demand, particularly in the subcompact category.
Sales of its tiny Fit have soared 79 percent so far this year, and interest in the vehicle is so strong that Honda accelerated the introduction of the 2009 model, which will go on sale Tuesday.
The Fit's four-cylinder engine gets 34 miles per gallon in highway driving, but the quirky little hatchback does not scrimp on creature comforts. The base model -- which sells for $15,200, including delivery charges -- has a satellite-linked navigation system and safety features like side-curtain airbags.
Honda's focus on fuel efficiency is paying off on the bottom line as well. The Japanese automaker reported a record profit of 179.61 billion yen ($1.68 billion), during its fiscal first quarter that ended in June, an 8.1 percent jump from the previous year.
By comparison, G.M. and Ford have lost billions this year as the market has moved away from the big vehicles that once generated the bulk of their profits. Detroit is moving radically to downsize its vehicle lineups and, in Ford's case, to convert assembly plants from making trucks to small cars.
Even Honda's larger Japanese rival, Toyota, is hustling to adjust to the rapidly changing United States market.
Toyota dedicated its latest American assembly plant in Texas to building full-size pickups. Honda's newest factory, in southern Indiana, is set to begin production of Civic compact cars this fall.
Honda's focus on fuel efficiency and the environmental impact of its vehicles dates back to the Clean Air legislation of the 1960s and 1970s. Mr. Knight, the head of Honda engineering in North America, recalled how Honda adopted an internal motto -- ''Blue skies for our children'' -- as a guideline for future vehicle development.
''The discussions inside the company have always been consistent,'' said Mr. Knight, who joined the company in 1976.
Honda has posted the highest corporate average fuel economy of any automaker for its overall fleet of vehicles over the last 15 years, according to federal statistics.
The fuel economy of its cars is comparable to Toyota, but Honda has never aspired to build a full line of trucks and S.U.V.'s.
Its lineup includes the midsize Ridgeline pickup, as well as lighter weight, car-based crossover vehicles like the CR-V, Element and Pilot.
''Honda is a philosophy-driven company,'' said Tetsuo Iwamura, president of Honda North America. ''Even when the large S.U.V.'s and trucks were big sellers, they did not fit with our philosophy.''
Honda's dealers pressed the company in recent years to build a full-size pickup and introduce a V-8 engine, said Dan Bonawitz, head of corporate planning in the United States.
''We kept asking ourselves what value Honda would bring to the customer in that category,'' he said. ''There was just no benefit for us to get in it.''
Sales of Honda's crossovers, minivans and pickups have dropped this year along with the overall market. But the surge in sales of its cars has more than made up for the shortfall.
Unlike many other automakers, Honda has been able to capitalize on the switch in demand to cars because of the flexibility of its assembly plants.
At Honda's plant in East Liberty, Ohio, for example, the assembly line can switch almost seamlessly from Civics to CR-Vs.
When the new plant goes into production in Indiana, Honda's North American production capacity will increase to 1.4 million vehicles a year to meet the growing demand for its small cars.
''We had a very good May and June with sales of the Civic, but July and August have been terrible because of a shortage of stock,'' Mr. Iwamura said. ''But by October, the supply situation will be improved a great deal.''
Other automakers are also increasing production of their small cars, but Honda is cashing in on its reputation for the reliability, fuel efficiency and handling of its vehicles.
''Honda's cars seem to have more personality than Toyota's,'' said Aaron Bragman, an analyst with the research firm Global Insight in Troy, Mich. ''Their cars are enjoyable to drive, and not just appliances.''
Meghan Bohnert of Festus, Mo., recently traded in her Toyota Corolla for a Fit because it ''stood out'' from other cars in the subcompact segment. ''People I know think the car is cute and it surprises them with its pep,'' said Ms. Bohnert, a 24-year-old analyst for AT&T. ''People are also surprised at the amount of interior space.''
Even with the success of its smallest cars, Honda executives concede that the company has some catching up to do with Toyota in hybrid vehicles.
While Honda offers a hybrid version of the Civic, Toyota's Prius model is the runaway leader in the category.
But Honda recently announced plans to introduce a five-door, hybrid-only model in North America next year to compete with the Prius. Honda is expected to price the vehicle lower than the Prius to attract younger buyers.
Honda is also planning a two-door, sporty hybrid and a hybrid version of the Fit.
At its headquarters here in Torrance, the vehicle that draws the most attention these days is the company's hydrogen-powered, fuel-cell vehicle dubbed the FCX Clarity.
The company recently began a program to lease the fuel-cell car to a small number of consumers in California. Executives declined to predict when the car will be available for the mass market, but said it represents the next step for a company committed to clean technology.
''We have a saying that we want to make Honda the company that society wants to exist,'' Mr. Iwamura said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Interest in the 2009 Honda Fit is strong. John Mendel, left, is Honda United States sales chief. Tetsuo Iwamura is president of Honda North America.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
 Honda, which is building a plant in Greensburg, Ind., is spurring growth in that town. Susan Rust welcoming the carmaker.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DARRON CUMMINGS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C2) CHART: Honda, Better Off Than Most: By sticking with more fuel-efficient vehicles, Honda's sales have been up this year while other automakers' sales have been lower.(Source: Autodata) Chart details bar graph for CHANGE IN U.S. LIGHT VEHICLE SALES, 2008 THROUGH JULY.(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); SEDANS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (64%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (63%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (62%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (50%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); JAPAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



640 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Average U.S. Income in 2006 Showed First Rise Over 2000

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Americans enjoyed higher average income in 2006 for the first time since 2000, when the last economic expansion ended, the latest tax data show. 
 Adjusted gross income reported on tax returns in 2006 averaged $58,029. In 2006 dollars that was an increase of $739, or 1.2 percent, from the $57,289 average in 2000, analysis of Internal Revenue Service data showed. 
 Total income increased by $619.2 billion or 8.3 percent, all of which went to those making more than $75,000, and 42 percent of which went to the roughly one in 400 taxpayers who made more than $1 million in 2006.
 Average income fell sharply in 2001 and in 2002, when it dropped to $51,870, off nearly 10 percent from 2000, tax data show. The average grew slightly in 2003. 
 Average income grew significantly in 2004, rising $2,291, and again in 2005, when the average increased by $2,210. Income growth continued in 2006, but at a much slower pace, increasing by $1,369 over the 2005 average once inflation is taken into account. 
 Salaries and wages, by far the largest source of income, nearly returned to the 2000 average in 2006. However, among the highest-paid workers, both total and average wages fell, an indication of how the Internet bubble had concentrated gains among a relatively few workers.
 The average wage in 2006 was $46,996, down $101, or a fraction of 1 percent, from $47,097 in 2000. Average wages in this decade hit a low of $45,956 in 2003, the I.R.S. data show. 
 Among workers with salaries of less than $1 million, the average wage in 2006 was up $170 from 2000.
 However, salaries fell noticeably among the tiny slice of taxpayers whose total income was $1 million or more, a threshold that the I.R.S. does not adjust for inflation. The number of wage earners in this high-income group soared over six years, up 42.9 percent, to 285,759 of the 116.4 million taxpayers reporting wages in 2006. 
 Despite this rise in the number of high-wage earners, their total wages declined by $2.4 billion, or almost 1 percent, to $313.3 billion. 
 The decline in total wages at the top was solely among the narrow segment of wage earners with total income of $5 million or more, the same group that was the big winner from dot-com era stock options, reported as wages on tax returns. The average wage of these 33,309 workers fell almost 37 percent, to $3.5 million in 2006 from $5.5 million in 2000, analysis of the tax data showed.

GRAPHIC: CHART: While Income Is Up, Wages Lag Slightly: In 2006, income that taxpayers reported rose above the 2000 level for the first time, but wages remained just below the peak.(Source: Internal Revenue Service) Chart details bar graph for Avg. adjusted gross income
 and Avg. wage 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVERAGE EARNINGS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



641 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures Mean Crises For H.I.V. Positive Renters

BYLINE: By APRIL DEMBOSKY

 BODY:
Sabrina Wilson did not know she would have to move out of her Brooklyn apartment until she saw the ''for sale'' sign outside the building. 
 Mrs. Wilson, whose H.I.V. was diagnosed 18 years ago, had always dreaded the thought of having to find another landlord who would accept her rental subsidy from the city. But this time, because her current landlord faced foreclosure, the sense of urgency landed her in the hospital.
 ''I got sick because of the stress,'' said Mrs. Wilson, who is 51 but moves at the pace of an octogenarian. ''I cried day in and day out. Where am I going to stay? Where am I going?''
 At least 50 H.I.V.-positive renters have complained to city housing organizations in the past months of being forced out or threatened with eviction because of foreclosures. The agencies say they do not know the exact number of families in housing trouble because there is no centralized system for tracking them, but all say that H.I.V.-positive renters are in a particular squeeze. 
 High rental rates, combined with insufficient public benefits and ineffective antidiscrimination laws, can extend their housing search to a year or more. Unless the landlord is forthcoming, or the bank is diligent in notifying them, tenants may not learn of a foreclosure until they have just a few months to move, putting them in a crisis situation.
 For people with children, the most common option is a home or small building in a poor neighborhood, properties that tend to be susceptible to foreclosure. Between 2004 and 2007, foreclosure rates in New York City doubled, with the highest rate of increase seen in two- and three-family buildings, according to a study by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University. Renters in these types of foreclosed houses have little to no defense against eviction, even if they have a lease.
 But the problems of H.I.V.-positive tenants begin long before the eviction date, when landlords with nothing else to lose stop paying the utilities. 
 One such tenant, a 49-year-old woman who asked not to be identified by name because she fears discrimination for being H.I.V. positive, lives in a three-bedroom apartment in Queens with three of her children and two grandchildren. 
 In June, the woman's gas, which was included in her rent, was shut off. Then she received a legal document in her mailbox, saying the owners of the building she lived in were facing foreclosure. 
 When she called the gas company, she said they told her the bill was thousands of dollars overdue. 
 ''I couldn't heat a bottle for my grandson,'' she said. ''I couldn't cook hot food. You can't buy hot food with food stamps.''
 The woman paid the gas bill for June, July, and August with her Social Security check, leaving only a few hundred dollars to live on each month. Though she is not sure where things stand with her landlord's foreclosure proceedings, she makes calls almost every day looking for a new place. 
 ''I'm really trying to move before they tell me, O.K., you have 30 days,'' she said. ''I want the kids to be stable before school starts come September, but it doesn't look like it's going to happen that quick.'' 
 For their part, owners and landlords are so preoccupied with trying to renegotiate their mortgage, or having to move themselves, that little energy is left for the tenants. 
 ''It's beyond my control,'' said Femi Adeyeye, one of the owners of the building the woman lives in. 
 The city's H.I.V./AIDS Services Administration, known as HASA, provides rental assistance to people with the illness. Though assistance levels are reviewed on an individual basis, the agency pays about $940 for a one-bedroom apartment, not including gas and electricity, $1,069 for a two-bedroom, and $1,348 for a three-bedroom, the same guidelines since 2003. In addition to the HASA benefit, tenants are expected to contribute 30 percent of their income, usually from federal benefits, but cannot be left with less than $330 a month. 
 ''HASA pays 20 percent less than Section 8,'' said Sean Barry, a co-director of the New York City AIDS Housing Network, referring to the federal rental subsidy program. ''If a landlord has multiple clients applying with Section 8 or HASA, they know they can play around with the regulations and get more money from Section 8.'' 
 Advocates and clients are sure that discrimination is a factor that limits housing options. 
 ''People don't want me because I'm living with AIDS,'' Mrs. Wilson said. ''I think they're scared.'' 
 Mrs. Wilson, who also has hepatitis C, diabetes and depression, said she was turned down by one real estate broker after another. ''I lost eight pounds,'' she said of her housing search. ''I ran and I ran and I ran.'' 
 The City Council amended the city's housing code in March, making it illegal for landlords to discriminate against potential tenants who receive federal, state or local housing benefits like Section 8 or HASA. But the amendment applies only to buildings with six units or more, not private homes, and it carries no penalty for those who violate it. 
 ''There are no consequences, no monetary fines,'' said Hannah Thorne, a case manager for Housing Works, a nonprofit group that helps people who are H.I.V. positive or have AIDS find housing and other services. ''We look for apartments with clients, and the landlords say, 'No programs, no programs, no programs.' '' 
 It was months before Mrs. Wilson even looked at a place she could afford. She recently found a three-bedroom apartment in Brooklyn for $900, a big break from the $1,650 she pays now. She has stacks of moving boxes in her current apartment in the hope that her application is chosen from the pile, and that she; her husband, who has been unemployed since October; and two sons will be able to move soon. 
 The city provides same-day emergency housing to evicted tenants with AIDS who have not been able to find new homes. The temporary solution, a shelter or a single-room occupancy hotel, can become a long-term solution. 
 ''Housing is a health care issue,'' Ms. Thorne said. ''A person is more likely to take their medication regimen if properly housed.''
 A 52-year-old woman, who asked not to be identified by name because her family does not know she is H.I.V. positive, could not find a new place when her landlord went into foreclosure. Her biggest fear was that she, her two daughters and two grandchildren would end up in a shelter.
 ''They don't give you your own place, you have to be there at a certain time of day, you have to sleep with one eye open because they steal your property,'' she said. 
 Real estate brokers kept telling her they did not have any three-bedrooms in her price range. Once she found one, it took months before HASA inspected and approved it as medically appropriate, she said. Meanwhile, her old landlord refused to deal with a rodent and cockroach infestation, leaking ceilings and the peeling paint in her grandchildren's closet. 
 ''It was so overwhelming,'' she said. ''I thought I was never going to get out of there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sabrina Wilson with her son Kevin Harris. She says she has been turned down many times in her search for new housing.
 ''I'm really trying to move before they tell me, O.K., you have 30 days,'' said this Queens woman who may lose her apartment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); EVICTION (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



642 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: Tickets for New Stadiums: Prices, and Outrage, Escalate

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
No American market has witnessed anything like it: two baseball teams and two football teams will open three new stadiums within 17 months and 20 miles of one another, with everything set to be in place by the fall of 2010.
But even as fans of the Mets, the Yankees, the Giants and the Jets look forward to state-of-the-art stadium architecture, better sightlines, wider concourses and more bathrooms, some of them are also facing startling increases in ticket costs during a serious economic downturn.
The teams are confident market research supports the increases, but season-ticket holders say the price they are being asked to pay in the new stadiums -- the Mets' $800 million Citi Field, the $1.3 billion Yankee Stadium and the $1.6 billion (and climbing) Jets-Giants stadium -- is turning them into something other than fans. Instead, interviews with two dozen fans indicated, they are starting to feel like unwitting bankers.
''You're asking me for money and giving me nothing in return,'' said Steve Kern, a construction executive from Boonton Township, N.J., who owns two Jets season tickets. ''I won't be sharing in the revenues or get any perks.'' 
Kern, who organized a small protest outside the Jets-Giants exhibition game Saturday, said he objected to the sale of personal seat licenses, the one-time fees that simply give fans the right to buy season tickets at the new stadium the Jets and Giants will share.
The Giants have said they will charge from $1,000 to $20,000 a seat for their personal seat licenses; once fans buy the seat licenses, they will still have to pay from $85 to $700 a ticket. The Jets are expected to unveil their ticket plan Tuesday.
''Here I am, buying a stadium for John Mara,'' said Hank Honig, an accountant from Middletown, N.J., who owns eight Giants season tickets, referring to the team's co-owner. ''I'd love to see him issue a registration statement like a stock offering that would disclose information we don't know. This is a greedy ploy with the only benefits going to them.''
Mara, who has been dealing with an outpouring of complaints that he no doubt anticipated, responded, ''They have ownership of their seats and can transfer it.''
Thomas Malmud, a real estate lawyer who has season tickets to the Jets, the Mets and the Yankees, said that paying for seat licenses made him feel as if he is helping the Jets' owner, Woody Johnson, pay the team's half-share of the new stadium. He seemed less upset with the Mets.
''The Jets and Giants want me to be an equity partner without any upside,'' he said. ''But with the Mets, the price has some relationship to the market for sporting tickets.''
His Mets seats will jump from about $88 a game to $175. ''It's a huge increase, but not unconscionable,'' he said.
Fans are now calculating how expensive it will be for many of them to attend games at the new stadiums.
Tickets for the best seats at the 85-year-old Yankee Stadium, which sold for $1,000 a seat this season, will jump at the new ballpark to $2,500; in other areas of the stadium, they will range from $135 to $500 for season tickets. Prices for single-game tickets, which ranged from $14 to $400 this season, will be released later.
The best seats at Citi Field, which cost $276 at Shea Stadium this season, will soar to $495, with other season tickets ranging from $125 to $225 a game. Single-game tickets this season ranged from $5 to $117. (Citi Field's capacity of about 42,500 compares with 57,333 at Shea.) Neither team has made known all of its prices. Both teams also say broad swaths of more modestly priced tickets will be available.
Typically, all four teams sell a majority of seats as season tickets.
The personal seat licenses will allow the Giants to collect an estimated $185 million, after taxes, which will help pay for their stadium bonds. Mara conceded that fans were helping to finance a stadium whose costs had more than doubled from what he called an initial, and sketchy, $750 million estimate.
''It's impossible to build a stadium of this magnitude without public funding unless you do something significant with ticket prices or P.S.L.'s,'' he said.
Dave Howard, the Mets' executive vice president for business, said that Citi Field's pricing was designed to make those who sit closest to the field pay the most so that prices can be kept reasonable elsewhere. ''The market indicates that a sector of our fan base is willing to pay a premium price for a premium location,'' he said.
The shift to Citi Field unsettles fans like Richard Mermelstein, a lawyer from Scarsdale, N.Y. Since buying two season tickets the day the Mets acquired Gary Carter in 1984, he has upgraded several times to loge seats behind home plate. His bill -- $9,280 in 2006, $10,584 in 2007 and $13,060 this season -- would spike to $24,300, or $150 a seat, next season if he moves to the seats designated as comparable to his Shea seats.
''Imagine how you'd feel if $300 goes to waste when they're out of it in September,'' he said.
The Mets have so far not agreed to let him downgrade to less expensive seats and he fears that if he goes on a waiting list, he may lose out entirely in relocating to Citi Field.
Howard said that some downgrade requests are easier to fulfill than others, as fans with seats at Shea that are comparable to the less-expensive ones sought by Mermelstein are served first. He also said that partial season-ticket plans might not survive.
''We've told our customers that if they want priority seating, they should have a full-season plan,'' Howard said.
Season-ticket holders of the four teams said they were contemplating various strategies to cope.
Some, like Mermelstein, want to downgrade -- or else drop their tickets.
Some, like Honig, want to flip some of their seat licenses for a profit -- after holding them for the required minimum of one year -- to pay for the remaining ones.
Some are seeking partners to shoulder the costs.
One public-relations executive in Manhattan, whose company did not permit him to speak publicly, was faced with a $120,000 bill for his six Giants seat licenses. He sold four of them to a major financial services executive for $30,000 each, a 50 percent markup. He retained two licenses, and has an option to buy back one of his partner's licenses at market value.
Others, already sophisticated about reselling tickets on sites like stubhub.com, will try to recoup even more money by reselling tickets to attractive games.
Richie Brown of Manhattan, a uniform salesman, holds four fourth-row seats on the first-base side at Yankee Stadium that are jumping to $650 apiece from $220.
''It's going to cost $2,600 to sit there on a rainy day in April to watch Kansas City,'' he said. ''You sit there saying, maybe at $220, you have a chance of selling them to somebody, but try selling four tickets at $650 each.''
Mark S. Rosentraub, a professor of urban affairs at Cleveland State University and an expert in sports finances, said that new-stadium economics were forcing fans to become smart, well-organized ticket brokers.
''You'll have to put together packages where you sell your Royals tickets at a loss but hope you make it back on your Red Sox tickets,'' he said. ''If you're used to seeing the Red Sox nine times, maybe now it'll be four or five times.''
He said the Yankees, the Mets, the Giants and the Jets would not be setting their seat license and ticket prices so high without having studied data about the market from sources like StubHub. The Giants' Mara offered a blunt lesson in market-driven economics on WFAN radio this month. ''We have 130,000 people on our waiting list,'' he said. ''We could charge anything and still fill the stadium.''
The Nyack Rotary Club, with four Giants season tickets bequeathed to it by a member, faces an unusual problem. It raffles off the tickets to raise funds for scholarships and local elementary school literacy programs. Now, faced with paying seat licenses of $20,000 each, Christopher Haera, a former club president, said, ''It seems odd to take out a loan to do a fund-raiser, and you don't want to do a fund-raiser to do a fund-raiser.''
Few fans have a broader view of season tickets than Aldo Zu-ppichini, who spends six figures annually to see the Yankees, the Giants, the Jets, the Knicks and the Rangers. He is giving up his football tickets (''I've got a 65-inch flat screen'') and has traded down to $135 seats in the Terrace Suite (''a fancy name for the upper deck'') at the new Yankee Stadium rather than pay $650 a game to watch Derek Jeter.
Zuppichini, a resident of Fort Lee, N.J., who is the vice president for sales for Pretzel Crisps, reluctantly signed a 10-year contract for the $135 seats, with built-in annual ticket price increases of 4 percent a year.
''You can't be any more die-hard then me,'' he said, ''but when the Giants' P.S.L. letter came in, I was so burned, I read half of it and threw it away.''
Feeling more betrayed is Irwin Shivek, of Boynton Beach, Fla. He bought his first two Giants season tickets back in 1946, doing so ''over the counter'' from Jack Mara, John's uncle, at the team's old business offices on 42nd Street in Manhattan.
In time, Shivek added two more season tickets and ended up in one of the Giants Stadium sections that make up the Coach's Club at the new stadium, where seat licenses cost $20,000 and game tickets go for $700 each. The Giants say they are priced at that level because of their location behind the Giants' bench, and because they provide access to a club that will provide free food and beverages and the ability to watch post-game interviews.
In 1989, Shivek moved from Secaucus, N.J., to Florida, and gave his tickets to his daughters, Susan and Lynn (whose middle name is Mara, a show of the family's allegiance to the Giants). Susan and her husband will pay the new bill -- $40,000 for two licenses and $14,000 for their season tickets, starting in 2010. But Lynn cannot.
''If the tickets were still in my name, I'd tear them up,'' said Shivek, a former executive at Syms, the clothing chain. ''If they couldn't afford to finance that stadium on their own, they shouldn't be leaving Giants Stadium.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mets will play at Citi Field, top, the Yankees at the new Yankee Stadium, center, and the Jets and Giants at a new stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. They will all raise ticket prices.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZY ALLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (96%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); BASEBALL (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (93%); NEW YORK METS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



643 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Nations Retain Ties To the Dollar

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia 

 BODY:
As oil prices soared and the dollar's value plunged, a chorus of academics and policy experts took up the cry that Saudi Arabia and neighboring Persian Gulf countries should abandon their currency pegs to a depreciating dollar to help combat the social ravages of inflation that were spreading across the region. 
 The brief, put forth by the likes of Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, and the Harvard economist Martin Feldstein, made impeccable theoretical sense: with gulf economies riding an oil boom, higher interest rates and stronger currencies were needed, not the reverse. Currency traders took heed. 
 But that argument made only limited headway in Saudi Arabia. And now, with the dollar's modest comeback and oil's retreat, policy makers in the region have been bolstered in their resolve to keep the pegs in place and accept the consequences of higher inflation if need be.
 ''The peg is here to stay, no ifs or buts,'' said Muhammad al-Jasser, vice governor of the central bank, the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency, who oversees the financial management of Saudi Arabia's soaring dollar reserve base. Sitting in his spacious office on the top floor of the central bank's postmodern headquarters, the academic in Mr. Jasser -- he has a doctorate in economics from the University of California, Riverside -- relishes the to and fro of the debate.
 But the policy maker in him takes a different view: the Saudi authorities have long said that a precipitous revaluation would increase investor uncertainty as well as shrink the government's budget surplus and its foreign exchange reserves. Also, they say, it is not the exchange rate that is causing the price spiral. 
 ''Inflation in our case and in this point of time is not a monetary phenomenon,'' Mr. Jasser said during an interview last month. ''It is driven more by government and private sector spending, coupled with the global boom in China and India. Wages are flexible here.'' 
 Flexible they may be, but that is cold comfort for millions of immigrant workers who swarm to countries throughout the gulf region -- not just Saudi Arabia but the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Kuwait as well -- in search of a better life.
 Consider Sher Bahader, a taxi driver, who ticks off the items that have soared in price since inflation hit a 30-year high here: milk, food and, most acutely, rent.
 ''Too many things are expensive; it's very, very difficult,'' said Mr. Bahader, 57. He works seven days a week, from 4 in the morning to 11 at night, to make enough to send to his five children and wife, who live in a small village in Pakistan-administered Kashmir. ''If the oil price is high, that is good for the Saudi Arabian people, but not for the poor man.''
 The root of the problem is clear. Inflation is high and rising: 10.5 percent year over year in Saudi Arabia as of April, up from 1 percent in 2003; 14 percent in Qatar for the first quarter of 2008; and 12 percent for the United Arab Emirates year over year through March. 
 But even as gulf central bankers and outside prognosticators quarrel over how to respond to the situation, the intellectual divide highlights the gap that often exists between the prescriptions offered by academics and policy experts in Washington, New York and Cambridge and the grittier realities that face policy makers in their home countries.
 Indeed, academics are right when they say that the lower interest rates that dollar-pegged gulf economies must adhere to have fueled a development boom that has resulted in major supply constraints. 
 But in a part of the world that prizes stability of all kinds, social as well as economic and political, it was always unlikely that countries like the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia would abruptly revalue and watch their budget surpluses disappear just to appease outside experts -- or dyspeptic taxi drivers, for that matter. Especially when memories of oil at $10 a barrel and gaping budget deficits remain vivid.
 ''The gulf countries have opted to inflate,'' said Brad W. Setser, an international financial analyst at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, one of many who was arguing that the gulf countries should forgo the dollar link. ''If oil revenues are going up 500 percent you can afford to pay your workers more. But that will just add to the inflationary spiral.''
 It is not just the academics either: the world's credit rating agencies have recently warned that higher inflation in the coming years could lead to social unrest in the region, even as the agencies themselves conclude that the large internal and external surpluses rule out a downgrade. 
 And on Aug. 11, the International Monetary Fund said that over time, if inflation persisted, Saudi Arabia should consider tying the riyal to a broader basket of currencies, as Kuwait has done. 
 Because they are paid in Saudi riyals or United Arab Emirates dirhams and then convert them into dollars to send their wages home, foreign workers have felt the brunt of the dollar's slide. They are estimated to make up 50 percent or more of the work force in gulf countries.
 Pay has increased for many imported workers, but it is not enough to compensate for rising food prices and, even more important, soaring monthly rents, which account for 25 percent of the inflation index.
 That creates something of a Catch-22 for local governments: to reduce housing costs, they must curb their demand for inexpensive foreign labor. But that will hinder the region's planners in accomplishing the ambitious development projects intended to provide economic stability and employment opportunities for currently underemployed nationals, whatever the price of oil.
 Such a quandary means little to Mahmood Gabar, 36, a taxi driver from Egypt who, carrying only a high school diploma, was drawn to Abu Dhabi 15 years ago by the prospect of robust wages and permanent work. For years he made enough to enjoy a young man's life in the United Arab Emirates and send more than enough back to his family in Cairo.
 But over the past five years, the cost of renting the cramped room, measuring seven square meters or 75 square feet, that he shares with two other workers shot up to 3,000 dirhams a month, from 800, leaving him little to send home to his wife and newborn daughter. 
 ''I won't stay here anymore,'' he said, his voice rising in frustration. ''I am in the Emirates 15 years and I have nothing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mahmood Gabar, 36, a taxi driver, came to the United Arab Emirates from Egypt 15 years ago. Lately, rising rents have left him little money to send to his family.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAR WAN NAAMANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); IMMIGRATION (63%)

COMPANY: SAUDI ARABIAN MONETARY AGENCY (69%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (69%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (69%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (69%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%); KASHMIR (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); GULF STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); QATAR (79%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



644 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
PRESERVING NEIGHBORHOODS Some cities hit hardest by the mortgage crisis are buying foreclosed homes and investing in social initiatives and community cleanup to prevent problematic neighborhoods from sliding into decay. 
 SHARP DROP FOR JPMORGAN The JPMorgan Chase & Company has said the market value of its preferred stock investments in the home mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has dropped sharply -- by about 50 percent, to $600 million in the quarter. [C2.]
The markets fell sharply after a disappointing news about several financial institutions. [C6.] 
 HONDA'S GLORY DAYS Honda never joined other automakers in the glory days of big pickups S.U.V.'s. Now no automaker in the United States is doing better. [C1.] 
 RISE IN HOME SALES Figures for July show that declining home prices helped send sales to their highest since February, though more than a third of the homes were sold at a loss. [C1.] 
 STICKING WITH THE DOLLAR The dollar's modest comeback and retreat in oil prices have bolstered Persian Gulf policy makers who chose not to follow the advice of some experts about pegging their currencies to the dollar. [C1.] 
 REFLECTING AND FORECASTING With the Street virtually empty the last week of summer, reflecting on the financial crisis and thinking about what might happen when everyone returns to business after Labor Day. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.]
 LIMITING THE DRUG COMPANIESStanford University is expected to announce on Tuesday that it is restricting drug industry financing of doctors' continuing education at its medical school. [C3.]
 AMERICAN INCOMES ROSE Americans had higher average income in 2006 for the first time since 2000, the latest tax data show, with the average income reported for 2006 at $58,029. [C3.] 
 RIG OPERATOR BUYS RIVAL Precision Drilling Trust of Canada will buy Grey Wolf for $2 billion in cash and stock, creating one of the largest North American oil and gas rig operators, the companies have reported. [C7.] 
 DEADLY MEAT IN CANADA At least 12 people have died from tainted cold cuts linked to a Toronto meat plant owned by Maple Leaf Foods, health officials in Canada have said. [C3.] 
 RUSSIA'S W.T.O. PROBLEM Western officials, including President Bush and Commerce secretary Carlos Gutierrez, say that Russia's entry into the World Trade Organization could be jeopardized by its military actions in Georgia. [C6.]
 NEW TACK FOR AD SALES Hallmark Magazine, owned by Hallmark Cards, has given new meaning to the term business cards as it seeks to stimulate ad sales. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C6.] 
 CHANGES AT CITIGROUP The former Treasury secretary Robert E. Rubin, below, has taken on the title of senior counselor at Citigroup as part of several changes to the bank's board. Mr. Rubin will relinquish the chairmanship of the executive committee, which is being dissolved, but remain on the board. [C3.]
 BETTER HEADSETS Business travelers may find they need to buy a headset as more states ban drivers from holding a cellphone. But while the technology has improved significantly, the cost of higher-end headsets has risen, too. [C8.] 
 TIGHT FIT A 6-foot-6 business flier who has to make arrangements for his companions finds traveling is rarely fun. [C8.] 
 WATCH LIST WOES Michael J. Kirby is indeed the law-abiding citizen he says he is and Homeland Security agrees, but that doesn't mean his name has been removed from the terrorist watch list. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C8.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (84%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); US LABOR DAY (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); PROFESSIONAL CONTINUING EDUCATION (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); HESS CORP (53%); PRECISION DRILLING CORP (53%); HESS BAKKEN INVESTMENTS I CORP (53%); KINDER MORGAN INC (53%); MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC (52%); HALLMARK CARDS INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); HES (NYSE) (53%); PDS (NYSE) (53%); PD (TSX) (53%); KMI (NYSE) (53%); MFI (TSX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (53%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (53%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (53%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (52%); SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: CARLOS GUTIERREZ (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



645 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
PRESERVING NEIGHBORHOODS Some cities hit hardest by the mortgage crisis are buying foreclosed homes and investing in social initiatives and community cleanup to prevent problematic neighborhoods from sliding into decay. 
 SHARP DROP FOR JPMORGAN The JPMorgan Chase & Company has said the market value of its preferred stock investments in the home mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has dropped sharply -- by about 50 percent, to $600 million in the quarter. [C2.]
The markets fell sharply after a disappointing news about several financial institutions. [C6.] 
 HONDA'S GLORY DAYS Honda never joined other automakers in the glory days of big pickups S.U.V.'s. Now no automaker in the United States is doing better. [C1.] 
 RISE IN HOME SALES Figures for July show that declining home prices helped send sales to their highest since February, though more than a third of the homes were sold at a loss. [C1.] 
 STICKING WITH THE DOLLAR The dollar's modest comeback and retreat in oil prices have bolstered Persian Gulf policy makers who chose not to follow the advice of some experts about pegging their currencies to the dollar. [C1.] 
 REFLECTING AND FORECASTING With the Street virtually empty the last week of summer, reflecting on the financial crisis and thinking about what might happen when everyone returns to business after Labor Day. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.]
 LIMITING THE DRUG COMPANIESStanford University is expected to announce on Tuesday that it is restricting drug industry financing of doctors' continuing education at its medical school. [C3.]
 AMERICAN INCOMES ROSE Americans had higher average income in 2006 for the first time since 2000, the latest tax data show, with the average income reported for 2006 at $58,029. [C3.] 
 RIG OPERATOR BUYS RIVAL Precision Drilling Trust of Canada will buy Grey Wolf for $2 billion in cash and stock, creating one of the largest North American oil and gas rig operators, the companies have reported. [C7.] 
 DEADLY MEAT IN CANADA At least 12 people have died from tainted cold cuts linked to a Toronto meat plant owned by Maple Leaf Foods, health officials in Canada have said. [C3.] 
 RUSSIA'S W.T.O. PROBLEM Western officials, including President Bush and Commerce secretary Carlos Gutierrez, say that Russia's entry into the World Trade Organization could be jeopardized by its military actions in Georgia. [C6.]
 NEW TACK FOR AD SALES Hallmark Magazine, owned by Hallmark Cards, has given new meaning to the term business cards as it seeks to stimulate ad sales. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C6.] 
 CHANGES AT CITIGROUP The former Treasury secretary Robert E. Rubin, below, has taken on the title of senior counselor at Citigroup as part of several changes to the bank's board. Mr. Rubin will relinquish the chairmanship of the executive committee, which is being dissolved, but remain on the board. [C3.]
 BETTER HEADSETS Business travelers may find they need to buy a headset as more states ban drivers from holding a cellphone. But while the technology has improved significantly, the cost of higher-end headsets has risen, too. [C8.] 
 TIGHT FIT A 6-foot-6 business flier who has to make arrangements for his companions finds traveling is rarely fun. [C8.] 
 WATCH LIST WOES Michael J. Kirby is indeed the law-abiding citizen he says he is and Homeland Security agrees, but that doesn't mean his name has been removed from the terrorist watch list. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C8.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (84%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); US LABOR DAY (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); PROFESSIONAL CONTINUING EDUCATION (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); HESS CORP (53%); PRECISION DRILLING CORP (53%); HESS BAKKEN INVESTMENTS I CORP (53%); KINDER MORGAN INC (53%); MAPLE LEAF FOODS INC (52%); HALLMARK CARDS INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); HES (NYSE) (53%); PDS (NYSE) (53%); PD (TSX) (53%); KMI (NYSE) (53%); MFI (TSX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (53%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (53%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (53%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (52%); SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: CARLOS GUTIERREZ (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



646 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: The Dog That Isn't Barking

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: Dearborn, Mich. 

 BODY:
 The fun and games may be in Denver, but this year's presidential election will likely be decided in critical states like Michigan, where many Democratic voters, despite being hammered by a wicked economy, are ambivalent at best about the candidate at the top of their party's ticket.
 You could easily get the impression, through casual conversations, that Michigan will be a cakewalk for Barack Obama. Most people you talk to say that they plan to vote for him. Nearly all working families have been touched by the downturn, which has been longer and more severe here than in most other parts of the nation. 
 Relatives in different parts of the state are seeing less of one another because of high gasoline prices. Auto industry workers, traumatized by the number of colleagues who have been laid off, worry that they will be the next to go.
 The anger at George W. Bush is white-hot.
 Margaret Schlack, who is married and the mother of four, talked about the election after attending Sunday services at St. Matthew's United Methodist Church in Livonia, a largely white, working-class suburb of Detroit. 
 ''This area has seen a lot of economic trouble,'' she said. ''A lot of people are out of work. The housing market is just awful. And I don't feel that John McCain cares about the average person.''
 She said she plans to vote for Mr. Obama.
 Jack Davis, an assembler at an auto-parts plant in Grand Rapids, said of Senator Obama: ''I don't care if he's polka-dot as long as he can get us out of this mess.''
 Senator Obama was up by 2 to 7 points in the most recent statewide polls. And he hopes to get a bounce from this week's convention and his selection of Joe Biden as his running mate.
 So what's the problem for the Obama campaign?
 The problem is the dog that isn't barking.
 Talk for more than a few minutes with an Obama supporter in a white middle-class or working-class area and you'll hear about a friend or relative or co-worker who has a real problem with the candidate. When Jack Davis's wife, Joan, who also plans to vote for Senator Obama, was asked about Democrats that she knew who would not vote for him, she replied:
 ''My mother! She's 85 years old. I'm sorry to say, but she will not vote for him.''
 Joseph Costigan, a regional political director for the union, Unite Here, spoke candidly about the tension between the economic distress of working men and women and the persistent, though hard-to-quantify, resistance to Barack Obama's candidacy. 
 ''We've been talking with staff in different parts of the Midwest,'' he said, ''and we're all struggling to some extent with the problem of white workers who will not vote for Obama because of his color. There is no question about it. It's a very powerful thing to get over for some folks.''
 Mr. Costigan believes -- and hopes -- that the number of people holding such views is relatively small, and that Mr. Obama, now with the help of Senator Biden, can surmount that obstacle.
 Surmounting it will be tough. Not only do the polls show this to be a close race, but the polls, when it comes to Senator Obama, cannot be trusted. It is frequently the case that a statistically significant percentage of white voters will lie to pollsters -- or decline to state their preference -- in races in which one candidate is black and the other white.
 After many years of watching black candidates run for public office, and paying especially close attention to this year's Democratic primary race, I've developed my own (very arbitrary) rule of thumb regarding the polls in this election:
 Take at least two to three points off of Senator Obama's poll numbers, and assume a substantial edge for Senator McCain in the breakdown of the undecided vote.
 Using that formula, Barack Obama is behind in the national election right now.
 The race issue can come up in peculiar and jolting ways. After hearing that some union voters had openly wondered about Senator Obama's possible ''demise,'' I asked Dan Hammersmith, president of Unite Here Local 748 in Grand Rapids, if workers were really talking about whether Mr. Obama could survive as president.
 ''That is a concern that I've heard, yes,'' he said. ''But I tell people, 'Are we supposed to be afraid of that and not go ahead and try to do something different?' ''
 Over the weekend The Detroit Free Press ran a chart showing how people responded when asked if they agreed with the statement that ''there are people who want to hurt Barack Obama because of his race and sometimes I fear for his safety.''
 Fifty-seven percent agreed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FAMILY (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (54%); GASOLINE PRICES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



647 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Lobbying For All But New York

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
By now, few people may remember, and even fewer may care, but New York tried hard to be the place where the Democrats would gather this week to celebrate themselves. The city, however, proved no more adept at luring this political convention than it was at snagging the 2012 Summer Olympics. 
 Party panjandrums settled instead on Denver, the capital of a normally red state that they hope turns blue in November. 
 But New York, with Madison Square Garden as its main arena, has a distinction that the Democrats might have considered. In modern times, meaning in the four decades that the Garden has been at its present site, above Pennsylvania Station, the party that holds its national convention there usually goes on to win the presidential election.
 That was the case in 1976 (Jimmy Carter), 1992 (Bill Clinton) and 2004 (George W. Bush). The Democrats went to the well once too often when they returned to the Garden in 1980, only to have Mr. Carter lose to Ronald Reagan that November. Still, three out of four ain't bad. Democrats, take note.
 Without a convention, New York is likely to remain stuck in its familiar mode of being overlooked by both major parties except when it comes to raising mountains of campaign cash. Neither party sees much to gain by actively campaigning -- i.e., meeting real people -- in a city and state that are no more likely to go Republican this year than post-Olympics China is to go democratic, lower-case D.
 So come fall, don't expect to hear much from the presidential candidates about what they would do to solve problems specific to this or any other American city.
 In the primary season, the two parties held more debates than Madonna has image changes, yet managed to avoid urban-focused issues like mass transit, pollution, homelessness, public hospitals, reasonably priced housing and decaying infrastructures. There is no reason to expect anything more in the general election. Hope, though, springs occasional.
 The candidates, Senators Barack Obama and John McCain, plan to be in New York on Sept. 11, appearing separately at a forum on civic involvement. That is, of course, an emotionally charged date. Still, it wouldn't hurt them to talk about fundamental city problems that go beyond predictable bromides about standing tall against terrorism.
 Another opportunity to discuss those issues could come on Oct. 15, when the senators are scheduled to hold their third and final debate at Hofstra University, barely 20 miles from Midtown Manhattan in Hempstead, on Long Island.
 The focus will be on domestic and economic matters. If the candidates can't weave cities into that discussion, they're not trying. (Should they pull a surprise and actually debate urban policy, fact-checkers might bear in mind that the main road to Hempstead is a highway whose acronym spells lie.)
 Even if they end up being ignored by the national campaigns, New Yorkers have plenty going on in local politics to occupy them. At the top of the list, for now, is the bout of Giulianiosis that may have gripped Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 You will recall the efforts made on behalf of Rudolph W. Giuliani to undermine the imperatives of voter-approved limits that ended his mayoralty after two terms in 2001. A movement was afoot, encouraged by Mr. Giuliani and his minions, to keep him overtime, the notion being that the city could not possibly go on without him after the attack on the World Trade Center.
 Some fear-addled people were ready to abandon the very basics of our democracy. They wanted outright to cancel the mayoral election that November. Never mind that this country did not suspend elections in far more perilous times, including the Civil War and World War II.
 In the end, the theory of the indispensable man failed. Mr. Giuliani left office on schedule at the end of 2001. Both the city and the republic survived.
 Now Mr. Bloomberg is making noises that sound suspiciously like an echo of that theory. After years of speaking unswervingly in favor of term limits, he has wavered. He now seems open at least to the concept of a voter-dodging maneuver by the City Council to give him and other city officials a third term beyond 2009.
 How serious he is about this is hard to tell. Mr. Bloomberg has minions of his own. They have floated more trial balloons than the Macy's parade in various attempts to stave off lame-duckdom. This third-term business may be just another way to keep his name front and center as his days at City Hall wind down.
 But it just could be that Mr. Bloomberg, like Mr. Giuliani, has never fully absorbed Charles de Gaulle's admonition about indispensable men. The graveyards, de Gaulle said, are full of them.
 Not bad advice for would-be presidents, too, come to think of it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); OLYMPICS (72%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); CITIES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (62%); TERRORISM (60%); HOSPITALS (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JIMMY CARTER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



648 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Cancer, Kennedy Adds an Opening Spark

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Reporting was contributed by Jeff Zeleny in Davenport, Iowa; Michael Cooper in Los Angeles; and John M. Broder, Janet Elder, Patrick Healy and Jeremy W. Peters in Denver.

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, struggling with terminal brain cancer, arrived on Monday night at the Democratic National Convention in a triumphant appearance that provided an emotional start for the event as the party turned to a new era and gathered to nominate Senator Barack Obama for president.
 Mr. Kennedy arrived at the convention center here shortly before dusk, accompanied by a flock of family members. He walked a few halting steps to a waiting golf cart, which drove him into the hall where Democrats are meeting this week.
 Mr. Kennedy walked out with his wife, Vicki, who kissed him and left him at the lectern. The crowd, many of them wiping tears from their eyes, would not stop cheering until he settled them down
 ''My fellow Democrats, my fellow Americans, it is so wonderful to be here,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''And nothing is going to keep me away from this special gathering tonight.'' 
 ''I have come here tonight,'' he continued, ''to stand with you to change America to restore its future, to rise to our best ideals and to elect Barack Obama president of the United States.''
 Every sentence was greeted by loud applause. And while Mr. Kennedy spoke slowly, he was firm and energetic, gesturing with a hand and sounding very much like the man who enraptured the party's convention 28 years ago.
 In a moment that captured the generational arc of the night -- and the Kennedy family's connection to Mr. Obama, whom Mr. Kennedy endorsed in a turning point of his campaign -- a video tribute to the Massachusetts senator was introduced by Caroline Kennedy, his niece and the daughter of President John F. Kennedy. Her tribute was as much to her uncle as to the man who brought her into national politics.
 ''I have never had someone inspire me the way people tell me my father inspired them, but I do now: Barack Obama,'' Ms. Kennedy said inside the Pepsi Center. ''And I know someone else who's been inspired all over again by Senator Obama. In our family, he's known as Uncle Teddy. More than any senator of his generation, or perhaps any generation, Teddy has made life better for people in this country and around the world.''
 ''For 46 years, he has been so much more than just a senator for the people of Massachusetts; he's been a senator for all who believe in a dream that's never died,'' she said, invoking Mr. Kennedy's speech to the Democratic convention in 1980.
 The Democrats' 2008 convention was gaveled to order with a stream of opening speakers who began laying the foundation for the tasks that Mr. Obama and his advisers hope to accomplish during the four-day event. Throughout the day, aides to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Mr. Obama, of Illinois, worked to ease tensions over the Clintons' roles at the convention in what was amounting to a decidedly strained passing of the generational torch.
 In a speech to the New York delegation earlier in the day, Mrs. Clinton strongly urged her supporters to vote for Mr. Obama at the convention. And Mr. Obama, campaigning in Davenport, Iowa, said he had spoken to former President Bill Clinton earlier in the week and made clear that he welcomed Mr. Clinton's role at the convention.
 Even before the sun set here, speakers were assailing the presumed Republican nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona, in a way that made clear the convention would not be a replay of the Democrats' genteel gathering in 2004. Speaker after speaker, reading speeches that had been carefully vetted by a team of Obama advisers, denounced Mr. McCain for his ties to President Bush, his positions on the economy and his stand on abortion.
 ''John McCain has spent more than 25 years in Washington voting against women's freedom,'' said Nancy Keenan, the head of NARAL-Pro-Choice America, ''and has pledged to appoint justices to the Supreme Court who will overturn Roe v. Wade.'' 
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, who is chairwoman of the convention, said: ''Republicans say John McCain has experience. We say John McCain has the experience of being wrong.''
 But while some speakers took the rough road, others -- starting with old friends and associates of the Obamas and scheduled to culminate with Michelle Obama's anticipated address -- offered a warm picture of Mr. Obama and his family. If one big task for Mr. Obama this week was to try to paint a critical picture of Mr. McCain and his policies, another was to try to present a fuller portrait of Mr. Obama and push back against Republicans' efforts to paint him as culturally and politically distant from mainstream America.
 Mr. Obama's half-sister, Maya Soetoro-Ng, talked about growing up in a family with little money, raised by a mother who was ''an eternal optimist who understood that parents are our first and best teachers.'' 
 In remarks prepared for delivery later on Monday night, Mrs. Obama is to speak of her own family's blue-collar past and spoke of her husband's life as ''a great American story.''
 She is to add in her prepared remarks: ''Barack and I were raised with so many of the same values: that you work hard for what you want in life; that your word is your bond and you do what you say you're going to do; that you treat people with dignity and respect, even if you don't know them, and even if you don't agree with them. And Barack and I set out to build lives guided by these values and pass them on to the next generation.''
 And Mrs. Obama's portrait of her life growing up on the South Side of Chicago, living in a modest house, is expected to offer a contrast with speakers who offered a mocking reminder of how Mr. McCain was unable to say last week how many homes he owned. 
 ''About the only guy who seems to have done really well these last eight years,'' said Andy Tobias, the Democratic treasurer, ''is a guy with a private jet and so many homes that he loses count.'' 
 Yet for all the planning by Mr. Obama's aides, the appearance by Mr. Kennedy was the most anticipated event of the day. The convention hall included many delegates who remembered when he stilled Madison Square Garden in New York as he yielded the party's 1980 nomination to President Jimmy Carter, declaring the ''dream will never die.'' 
 As the convention roared to life, Mr. McCain was hardly passive. He taped an appearance on the NBC program ''Tonight,'' where he poked fun at Mr. Obama's choice for running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, alluding to his verbosity and the risks that trait posed during a debate.
 ''The problem for any of them might be getting a word in edgewise,'' Mr. McCain said, before adding, ''I take that back.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton, preparing for her own speech on Tuesday, appeared before distraught members of her home-state delegation. She criticized a commercial from the McCain campaign that sought to foster divisions between her supporters and those of Mr. Obama.
 ''Let me state what I think about their tactics and these ads,'' she said. ''I'm Hillary Rodham Clinton and I do not approve of that message.''
 Aides to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama were negotiating a plan that would allow delegates from some states to vote for either candidate during the roll call for the nomination, but then end the voting relatively early with the declaration of unanimous consent for Mr. Obama. One idea, according to a Democrat involved in the process, is to have New York delegates cast their votes and then have Mrs. Clinton make a motion for the hall to unanimously endorse Mr. Obama. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CANCER (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); BRAIN CANCER (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY (76%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



649 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Michelle Obama, Now a Softer Presence, Adopts Twin Agendas

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
When her husband ran for Congress in 2000, Michelle Obama groused so much about handshaking and fund-raising that Arthur Sussman, then her boss at the University of Chicago, finally asked if she truly could not find a single thing about campaigning to enjoy.
 Mrs. Obama thought for a moment. Visiting so many living rooms had given her some new decorating ideas, she allowed. 
 Eight years later, the once reluctant campaigner is at the center of a multimedia charm offensive that may be the most closely managed spousal rollout in presidential campaign history. On Monday night, Mrs. Obama delivered a prime-time speech at the Democratic National Convention, preceded by an intricately made biographical video, a touch usually afforded to candidates, not their wives. 
 A relative newcomer to campaigning and the first black woman with a serious shot at first ladyhood, Mrs. Obama is a softer, smoother presence on the trail than she was at the start of the race.
 Her basic message -- the stirring life story, the full-throated advocacy for her husband, the maternal warmth -- has remained constant. But instead of laying down challenges to her audiences, she solicits their concerns and showers them with empathy. She used to appear on news programs; now she gives interviews to ''The View'' and Ladies' Home Journal. On Monday night she wore a designer dress, but lately she has more often sported a cheap-chic approach to fashion that might be called the economic crisis look: fewer designer pieces, more $79 Gap sundresses. 
 Now, in Denver and for the next 10 weeks, Mrs. Obama's agenda is a double one. She must continue to refashion her own occasionally harsh public image in warmer tones. But that is only one of the two life stories she must sell to voters. Worried that Mr. Obama's far-flung upbringing and his lack of deep roots leave some voters unsure and untrusting, the campaign is essentially substituting Mrs. Obama's family background for his own. 
 Mr. Obama has few family members who can serve as surrogates. Just last week, a European magazine located one of the Kenyan half-siblings he barely knows, living destitute in a shanty. (The TexasRepublican Party promptly turned the news into an attack ad.)
 So on Monday night, the campaign filled the stage and screen with Mrs. Obama's family: her basketball-coach brother, Craig Robinson; her homemaker-turned-secretary mother, Marian; and the memory of her father, Frasier, a city worker stricken with multiple sclerosis. (When her father was alive, the family barely talked about his disease, Craig Robinson said in an interview last year; now Mrs. Obama mentions it at nearly every campaign stop.)
 Like the most famous of reassuring biographical videos, Bill Clinton's ''The Man From Hope,'' Mrs. Obama's film, ''South Side Girl,'' roots her in a specific, vivid place, the South Side of Chicago. As her mother tells Mrs. Obama's story in a voice wavering with age, pictures of Mrs. Obama flash across the screen: as a child with pigtails, big brown eyes and an Easter basket, then as an adult with a child running into her arms. 
 Mrs. Obama's presentation touched just a bit on her own career, as a lawyer, community organizer and hospital executive, concentrating instead on her roles as a daughter, a mother, a sister and a wife. 
 Mr. Obama is ''the same man who drove me and our new baby daughter home from the hospital 10 years ago this summer,'' she said in her speech, describing him ''inching along at a snail's pace, peering anxiously at us in the rearview mirror, feeling the whole weight of her future in his hands.''
 Since she left her job as a hospital administrator to campaign and care for her daughters, Malia and Sasha, full time, some feminist critics have complained that Mrs. Obama sacrificed her own work for her husband's. But from the very start, the Obama marriage was a kind of professional symbiosis, a partnership between two passionately ambitious people who found they could rise higher in the world together than alone. 
 The two Harvard-educated lawyers met at a law firm where she was assigned to guide Mr. Obama, a summer associate. From there, they tag-teamed their way through Chicago, sharing mentors, organizational ties and interests.
 Mr. Obama turned his wife into a community organizer, and she eventually worked for some of his associates. Mrs. Obama, in turn, introduced him to some of the ambitious young African-American businessmen and civic leaders who would help fuel his political rise. Now they have fully fused their careers into one enterprise that has taken them farther than ever before. 
 The evening of the Iowa caucuses, the Obamas, who wanted to be away from the television, gathered their closest friends at a seafood restaurant in a Des Moines mall, where Mrs. Obama stood to give a toast. Everyone in the room knew that she had never really wanted her husband in politics, that she had once resented his absences and had expressed severe reservations before he entered the presidential race. 
 But now she stood and gave a more private, tender version of her campaign speech, misting up as she talked about her husband and his candidacy. ''Here's to my husband, the man I love and the man I believe would be the best president,'' she said, according to Sandra Matthews, a friend.
 Just then, a campaign aide broke in with news: the television networks were calling the state for Obama. As the room erupted in jubilation, as friends hugged, ignored their entrees and knocked over wineglasses, friends say, Mrs. Obama simply looked stunned.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In her convention speech, Michelle Obama touched just a bit on her own career, concentrating instead on her roles as a daughter, a mother, a sister and a wife.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator Barack Obama took in his wife's speech from Kansas City, Mo., watching on television with a family in the Midtown section: Bill and Alicia Girardeau and their daughter, Grace.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); FAMILY (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (69%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (63%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (60%); BASKETBALL (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: LADIES' HOME JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (59%) MISSOURI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



650 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Rubin Takes Counselor Role In a Board Shift at Citigroup

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The former Treasury secretary Robert E. Rubin has taken on the title of senior counselor at Citigroup as part of several changes to the bank's board.
 Mr. Rubin, who turns 70 on Friday, will give up the chairmanship of the executive committee, which is being dissolved. He will remain on the board, and his role at the bank is unchanged, a spokesman, Mike Hanretta, said. 
 The executive committee's only function was to act for the board between regularly scheduled meetings, the spokesman said. The nomination and governance committee, led by the chairman of Time Warner, Richard D. Parsons, will fill that role.
 Mr. Rubin served as an economic adviser to President Bill Clinton in 1993 and 1994 and was Treasury secretary from 1995 to 1999. Since joining Citigroup in 1999, Mr. Rubin has focused mainly on strategy, leaving day-to-day operations to others.
 Vikram S. Pandit has been chief executive since December, after Charles O. Prince III, resigned the previous month. Mr. Parsons is the bank's lead director.
 ''Pandit is continuing to exercise his increased authority over the future of business,'' said Michael Holland, founder of the money manager Holland & Company in New York. ''Sandy Weill brought in Rubin, and Prince kept him as a consigliere. It looks like Dick Parsons is moving to the fore.''
 Mr. Rubin was unavailable for comment.
 Mr. Pandit is reorganizing businesses and the board to improve efficiency, rebuild investor confidence and restore profit after $17.4 billion of losses tied mainly to credit market problems in the nine months ended June 30.
 Mr. Rubin became interim chairman in November after Mr. Prince left. Winfried F. W. Bischoff became permanent chairman in December. Mr. Holland said it made sense to keep Mr. Rubin on.
 ''Rubin has, to a great extent, emerged unscathed from some of the criticism of Citigroup's problems,'' Mr. Holland said. ''Rubin's combination of contacts and influence is very unique and something Pandit can take advantage of.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (79%); RICHARD D PARSONS (78%); SANDY WEILL (58%); BILL CLINTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



651 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: APPEALS EVOKING AMERICAN DREAM RALLY DEMOCRATS

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
In a modern production studio about a mile from where the Democrats were opening their convention here Monday, a SWAT team of Republican operatives dispatched to crash Senator Barack Obama's party was reveling in its accomplishments. 
 Two new advertisements devised to stoke the sore feelings of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's devotees were widely covered online and on cable news channels; a news conference the Republicans produced with former Clinton supporters who said they were now backing Senator John McCain drew a standing-room-only crowd of reporters; and a ''Happy Hour for Hillary'' cocktail party was planned, to be followed by an appearance by Mr. McCain on ''The Tonight Show With Jay Leno.''
 The opposition party once more or less ceded the stage to the convening party during its convention, under the assumption that breaking into the news coverage would be next to impossible. Over the past few presidential election cycles, as Washington became more bitterly partisan, that began to disintegrate, helped along by a proliferation of ravenous new media outlets that created growing opportunities to spread negative messages. 
 But on the first day of the Democratic convention, it was clear that this year will break new ground, with each side planning a full-bore run during the other's convention. Matt McDonald, who is overseeing the Republican effort, said he was ''pleasantly surprised'' by the party's success in inserting itself into the biggest week of the Obama campaign. ''Any time we can get our side of the story out,'' Mr. McDonald said, ''that's a good thing.''
 Democrats say they will be no less aggressive during the Republican convention next week.
 Even four years ago, President Bush, whose war room was as intense as any before it, ran no advertisements against Senator John Kerry as he prepared to accept the Democratic nomination in Boston. Since this weekend, the McCain campaign and the Republican Party have released three advertisements intended to pick up disaffected Clinton supporters. In one, Mrs. Clinton is quoted questioning Mr. Obama's resume, saying: ''Senator McCain will bring a lifetime of experience to the campaign. I will bring a lifetime of experience.'' 
 The Obama campaign is not standing by; it put out two of its most negative advertisements on Monday, one citing Mr. McCain's comment in December that economics was ''not something I've understood as well as I should.'' 
 The unremitting back-and-forth is a mark of how close and hard fought this race has become between two men who had made pledges to rise above hardball politics central to their campaigns. But the efforts are being facilitated by a newly charged news environment that has presented far more avenues for attack and reduced the length of an average news cycle to minutes -- making obsolete the notion of a 24-hour news cycle that seemed so impressive in the 1990s.
 The change is one reason Mr. Obama named his running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden of Delaware, just two days before the convention began -- something veterans of Democratic presidential campaigns feared would cost days of positive news coverage.
 But Obama aides said the rules of even the recent past no longer applied. They said that the announcement would be unlikely to hold the attention of reporters for more than a day or two and that any prolonged coverage was more likely to come from controversy fed by the opposition. 
 ''Twenty-four hours?'' said one senior aide who spoke on condition of anonymity because of a campaign policy against talking about the vice-presidential decision process. ''These days you're lucky to get 24 seconds.''
 Scant hours after news of Mr. Obama's choice broke, the McCain team was ready with a spot featuring Mr. Biden's critiques of Mr. Obama. It played over and over on cable and Internet sites. 
 Mr. McCain's team quickly worked the phones, calling reporters covering Mr. Obama's first appearance with Mr. Biden, to highlight the McCain campaign's taunt that Mr. Obama's mistaken reference to Mr. Biden as ''the next president'' was ''a Freudian slip.'' A McCain spokesman, Tucker Bounds, noted that CNN was ''right on our points.'' 
 That sort of success carried into the convention hall Monday, when Nicolle Wallace, a senior McCain aide, gave a round of cable news interviews criticizing Mr. Obama as ''not ready'' with the Democrats' elaborate convention stage as a backdrop.
 The Republicans are also planning this week to put big party stars, including potential vice-presidential nominees like Mitt Romney, in attack roles once handled by lesser-known operatives.
 The Republicans' ability to get a message through at the convention has surprised campaign veterans. Recalling his efforts to insert a Democratic message into the 2000 Republican convention, Dan Pfeiffer, now Mr. Obama's communications director, said, ''It was a challenge to break through there.'' (Mr. Pfeiffer dismissed the Republican attacks as ''a flea on a dog.'')
 Mr. McDonald, the Republican aide, said part of the difference was the abundance of political news sites. ''Because of the proliferation of new media, there's more appetite for different viewpoints,'' he said at what the McCain campaign is calling its ''Not Ready '08'' headquarters in Denver, which includes much of its war room staff from Virginia. ''It's not just everybody watching the main stage.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michelle Obama and daughters, Sasha and Malia, have a remote chat with Senator Barack Obama after Mrs. Obama's speech.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



652 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: First, the Good News

 BODY:
Taking tough steps to restore a state's fiscal sanity is not a sure road to popularity with voters. Just ask New Jersey's governor, Jon Corzine.
 Mr. Corzine and New Jersey heard good news this month when the major bond rating agencies said that the state was beginning to get its budgetary house in order. Standard & Poor's, for one, cited ''significant progress'' in restoring some balance between income and spending. 
 And how are the voters reacting? Not very well. 
 The latest Quinnipiac poll shows that 48 percent of New Jerseyans disapprove of how Mr. Corzine is doing his job while only 42 percent approve. The poll also shows that Christopher Christie, the U.S. attorney for New Jersey who is frequently mentioned as a potential Republican gubernatorial candidate in 2009, is running even with Mr. Corzine. Clay F. Richards, the polls' assistant director, says Mr. Corzine's ratings are a direct result of his stringent fiscal policies and his plan to reduce New Jersey's huge debt. 
 All this should come as no surprise. Mr. Corzine pushed a bare-bones budget through the Legislature that contained $650 million to pay down the state's $32 billion debt. To do this, he made big cuts almost everywhere -- including aid to colleges and universities, health care, municipal assistance and benefits for teachers and public employees. 
 Still, that is only a small step toward fiscal stability, and Mr. Corzine wanted to do a lot more. He proposed cutting the debt in half with big toll increases on the New Jersey Turnpike and Garden State Parkway. But the Legislature got cold feet, and Mr. Corzine had to settle for less. Even so, his efforts will reduce the state's crippling interest payments by more than $100 million for each of the next five years. 
 Mr. Corzine must not let the polls discourage him. He should challenge the Legislature with a new debt-reduction plan when it returns to work this fall. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BONDS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



653 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Worries About Major Banks Drag Down the Market

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Shares that went up on Friday plummeted on Monday. The markets dropped after a flurry of disappointing news about several major financial institutions.
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 241.81 points, or 2.08 percent, to 11,386.25, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 25.36 points, or 1.96 percent, to 1,266.84. The Nasdaq was down 2.03 percent, or 49.12 points, to 2,365.59.
 Monday's sharp decline followed a jump of 197.85 points for the Dow on Friday. 
 Concerns about major banks and insurance companies again weighed on the markets. The American International Group, the world's biggest insurance company, fell 5 percent to a 13-year low after the Credit Suisse Group predicted that the insurer would face major losses this quarter because of mortgage-related write-downs. 
 Shares in the troubled investment bank Lehman Brothers also helped drag down the market after the Korea Development Bank denied that it would consider buying the brokerage firm. Shares dropped 96 cents, or 6.66 percent, to $13.45 on Monday. Shares of the bank had soared more than 5 percent on Friday on rumors that the Korean bank might acquire it.
 The questions surrounding Lehman have helped spur a return of the jitters that surrounded Bear Stearns's potential failure in March -- when it was bought by its rival, JPMorgan Chase, in a deal engineered by the Federal Reserve.
 ''People remember what happened with Bear,'' said Alec Young, equity strategist at Standard and Poor's. ''Things can get really messy. People would rather see a better resolution.''
 JPMorgan Chase stock also took a hit after the bank disclosed that its exposure to battered government-sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The company said the value of its $1.2 billion investment in the mortgage giants had declined by half so far this quarter. Shares of JPMorgan fell $1.54, or 4 percent, $36.13. 
 Other banks that have recently disclosed their preferred exposure to Fannie and Freddie's troubles include Sovereign Bancorp and Wells Fargo & Company, whose shares declined 1.77 percent and 2.35 percent.
 ''This is not a normal regulatory disclosure,'' said Samuel Caldwell, research analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods ''The banks are starting to talk about this because it's become an issue, since securities are trading well below where they were even a few months ago.''
 Shares of other major banks also fell in part, analysts said, because of the collapse of Columbian Bank & Trust Company in Kansas, the ninth bank to fail this year. Washington Mutual was down 6 percent and Huntington Bancshares, a larger regional bank in Columbus, Ohio, slipped 6.79 percent. Shares of Merrill Lynch fell 4 percent. Wachovia was down 3 percent and Citigroup shares were off 2.92 percent. Morgan Stanley fell 1.72 percent. 
 The struggling mortgage finance giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, rebounded after Freddie Mac's successful auction of its debt. Shares of Fannie Mae rose 19 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $5.19. Freddie Mac rose 48 cents, or 17.08 percent, to $3.29.
 While the failure of the Kansas bank was alarming, analysts say that the number is nowhere near the rate during the savings and loan crisis in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
 Disappointing news about the housing market also took a toll on stocks. While home sales are up, so are inventories, according to the National Association of Realtors, suggesting that housing prices will continue to fall in the months ahead.
 ''Buyers have to go into the market to absorb inventory; once that inventory starts to decline, then home prices can begin to stabilize,'' said Lawrence Yun, chief economist of the National Association of Realtors.
 Oil prices rose 52 cents to settle at $115.11 a barrel. Rising oil prices tend to have the reverse effect on the stock market. 
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell Monday to 3.78 percent, from 3.87 percent. The price rose 23/32, to 101 25/32. The dollar was mixed, while gold prices declined.
 Some stock market analysts caution that Monday's slide should be taken with a grain of salt because volume was light. 
 ''On a normal trading day it should be about 1.4 billion shares back and forth. When you dip well below that, it means that if you've got investors going negative it's going to skew the market that way,'' said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at the Hartford. ''It's hard to build a case that that's where the market's direction is going to be after Labor Day.''
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills and 30-day cash management bills: 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer) Chart details line graph for May-Aug.
The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab.
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (65%); SANTANDER HOLDINGS USA INC (63%); COLUMBIAN FINANCIAL CORP (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (51%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (50%); HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); CSGN (SWX) (91%); CS (NYSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (85%); AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%); HBAN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (63%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (76%) OHIO, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



654 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Georgian President Vows to Rebuild Army and Pursue Control of Enclaves

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS and MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ. 
Steven Erlanger contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia 

 BODY:
President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia said Sunday that he planned to rebuild his country's shattered army, and that even after its decisive defeat in the war for control of one of Georgia's two separatist enclaves he would continue to pursue a policy of uniting both under the Georgian flag.
 ''It will stay the same,'' he said of his ambition to bring the enclaves, South Ossetia and Abkhazia, under Georgian control. ''Now as ever.'' 
 Both houses of Russia's Parliament, meanwhile, voted unanimously Monday to ask President Dmitri A. Medvedev to recognize the enclaves' independence. But the measure, which requires the president's approval to take effect, was seen as symbolic.
 Separately, the White House on Monday announced that Vice President Dick Cheney would visit the region from Sept. 2, stopping in Azerbaijan, Georgia, Ukraine and Italy to discuss the crisis. 
 France called an emergency summit meeting of the European Union for next Monday to discuss ''the future of relations with Russia'' and aid to Georgia, according to a statement Sunday from the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy.
 The meeting was framed as a response to Russia's failure to meet the terms of the cease-fire agreement that Mr. Sarkozy had negotiated between Moscow and Tbilisi. Mr. Sarkozy, in a statement, said he was responding to the demands of ''several states'' for the summit meeting, which will deal with ''the crisis in Georgia'' and take place in Brussels.
 According to senior French officials who helped negotiate the cease-fire agreement, the Russians must pull all their troops back to positions before the crisis began on Aug. 7. 
 The Russian troops stationed in South Ossetia and Abkhazia before that date may stay, and may continue to send out patrols into a ''security zone,'' a thin buffer roughly five miles beyond the enclaves' borders. 
 But the Russians are not allowed to set up fixed positions in the security zone -- an agreement that Russia has not adhered to, Mr. Sarkozy said Friday in a telephone call with President Bush. 
 In the Georgian Black Sea port of Batumi, the first American naval vessel arrived Sunday to distribute American humanitarian aid.
 A train carrying oil cars exploded while traveling near Gori, the city in central Georgia that Russia had occupied for about 10 days. Georgian officials said the train had struck a mine left behind by Russian troops. No one was reported killed in the blast or the raging fire that followed, which sent thick plumes of black smoke across the countryside. 
 With the bulk of Russian troops now withdrawn to the enclaves or to Russian soil, Mr. Saakashvili described the war against South Ossetia and Russia -- a military defeat that imperiled his government and threatens Georgia's fragile economy -- as a seminal moment that offered the seeds of political and national success.
 In an interview in his office that stretched until nearly 2 a.m., Mr. Saakashvili said that Georgia had gained allies in the world and would embark upon a campaign of rebuilding. 
 He predicted continued American support and said that he spoke by phone with the presumptive Republican nominee for president, Senator John McCain, as often as twice a day, and that he was in regular contact with Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., who has been picked to run for vice president on the Democratic ticket. 
 He also said that the Bush administration had not communicated disappointment or signaled a decline in its support for him since he gave the order on Aug. 7 to attack Tskhinvali, the South Ossetian capital. 
 He said that while he might face pressures in the months ahead, as the effects of the war ripple through the economy, he said he expected to weather any troubles. ''There has been tremendous solidarity,'' he said.
 The Kremlin has characterized Mr. Saakashvili as delusional and dangerous.
 Sitting in his office as he discussed the effects of the war -- tens of thousands of refugees; the scattering of a national army that abandoned its dead and its hardware on the battlefield; the loss of territory to Russia and the hardening of separatist sentiment in the enclaves -- he seemed prepared to resume the policies that had set Georgia and Russia at odds.
 He also said that he had made a decision not to continue to fight Russia during the invasion, and not to have his army organize an insurgency against Russia, because he hoped to save the country.
 ''We had a choice here,'' he said. ''We could turn this country into Chechnya -- we had enough people and equipment to do that -- or we had to do nothing and stay a modern European country.''
 He added: ''Eventually we would have chased them away, but we would have had to go to the mountains and grow beards. That would have been a tremendous national philosophical and emotional burden.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (78%); NAVIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); TRAINS (64%); HARBORS & PORTS (60%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); DICK CHENEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) GEORGIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPE (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



655 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Envoy's Ties to Pakistani Are Questioned

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MARK MAZZETTI; Helene Cooper reported from Washington, and Mark Mazzetti from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador to the United Nations, is facing angry questions from other senior Bush administration officials over what they describe as unauthorized contacts with Asif Ali Zardari, a contender to succeed Pervez Musharraf as president of Pakistan. 
 Mr. Khalilzad had spoken by telephone with Mr. Zardari, the leader of the Pakistan Peoples Party, several times a week for the past month until he was confronted about the unauthorized contacts, a senior United States official said. Other officials said Mr. Khalilzad had planned to meet with Mr. Zardari privately next Tuesday while on vacation in Dubai, in a session that was canceled only after Richard A. Boucher, the assistant secretary of state for South Asia, learned from Mr. Zardari himself that the ambassador was providing ''advice and help.'' 
 ''Can I ask what sort of 'advice and help' you are providing?'' Mr. Boucher wrote in an angry e-mail message to Mr. Khalilzad. ''What sort of channel is this? Governmental, private, personnel?'' Copies of the message were sent to others at the highest levels of the State Department; the message was provided to The New York Times by an administration official who had received a copy. 
 Officially, the United States has remained neutral in the contest to succeed Mr. Musharraf, and there is concern within the State Department that the discussions between Mr. Khalilzad and Mr. Zardari, the widower of Benazir Bhutto, a former prime minister, could leave the impression that the United States is taking sides in Pakistan's already chaotic internal politics.
 Mr. Khalilzad also had a close relationship with Ms. Bhutto, flying with her last summer on a private jet to a policy gathering in Aspen, Colo. Ms. Bhutto was assassinated in Pakistan in December. 
 The conduct by Mr. Khalilzad, who is Afghan by birth, has also raised hackles because of speculation that he might seek to succeed Hamid Karzai as president of Afghanistan. Mr. Khalilzad, who was the Bush administration's first ambassador to Afghanistan, has also kept in close contact with Afghan officials, angering William Wood, the current American ambassador, said officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly on the matter of Mr. Khalilzad's contacts. Mr. Khalilzad has said he has no plans to seek the Afghan presidency. 
 Through his spokesman, he said he had been friends with Mr. Zardari for years. ''Ambassador Khalilzad had planned to meet socially with Zardari during his personal vacation,'' said Richard A. Grenell, the spokesman for the United States Mission to the United Nations. ''But because Zardari is now a presidential candidate, Ambassador Khalilzad postponed the meeting, after consulting with senior State Department officials and Zardari himself.''
 A senior American official said that Mr. Khalilzad had been advised to ''stop speaking freely'' to Mr. Zardari, and that it was not clear whether he would face any disciplinary action. 
 In 1979, Andrew Young was forced to resign as the American ambassador to the United Nations over his unauthorized contacts with the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
 Administration officials described John D. Negroponte, the deputy secretary of state, and Mr. Boucher as angry over the conduct of Mr. Khalilzad because as United Nations ambassador he has no direct responsibility for American relations with Pakistan. Those dealings have been handled principally by Mr. Negroponte, Mr. Boucher and Anne W. Patterson, the American ambassador to Pakistan. Mr. Negroponte previously was the United Nations ambassador, and Ms. Patterson the acting ambassador.
 ''Why do I have to learn about this from Asif after it's all set up?'' Mr. Boucher wrote in the Aug. 18 message, referring to the planned Dubai meeting with Mr. Zardari. ''We have maintained a public line that we are not involved in the politics or the details. We are merely keeping in touch with the parties. Can I say that honestly if you're providing 'advice and help'? Please advise and help me so that I understand what's going on here.''
 This is not the first time Mr. Khalilzad has gotten into trouble for unauthorized contacts. In January, White House officials expressed anger about an unauthorized appearance in which Mr. Khalilzad sat beside the Iranian foreign minister at a panel of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. The United States does not have diplomatic relations with Iran, and a request from Mr. Khalilzad to be part of the United States delegation to Davos had been turned down by officials at the State Department and the White House, a senior administration official said. 
 Richard C. Holbrooke, a former ambassador to the United Nations under President Clinton, said the administration was sending conflicting signals. ''It is not possible to conduct coherent foreign policy if senior officials are freelancing,'' he said. 
 It has long been known that Mr. Zardari, who has been locked in a power struggle with Mr. Musharraf and Nawaz Sharif, a former prime minister whose party left the governing coalition on Monday, planned to run for president, administration officials and foreign policy experts said. 
 ''I know that Zardari's interest in becoming president has been clear for quite some time,'' said Teresita C. Schaffer, a Pakistan expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
 The Bush administration has long been uneasy with the idea of Mr. Sharif as a potential leader of Pakistan, and now that Mr. Musharraf is out of the picture, the administration, despite public protestation of neutrality, is seeking another ally. 
 ''It distresses me that the U.S. government has not learned yet that having 'our guy' is not a winning strategy in Pakistan,'' Ms. Schaffer said. ''Whoever 'our guy' is isn't going to be the only guy in town, and if we go into it with that view, we'll bump up against a lot of other guys in Pakistan.''
 A senior Pakistani official said that the relationship between Mr. Khalilzad and Mr. Zardari went back several years, and that the men developed a friendship while Mr. Zardari was spending time in New York with Ms. Bhutto.
 The Pakistani official said the consultations between the men were an open exchange of information, with each one giving insight into the political landscape in his capital. 
 ''Mr. Khalilzad, being a political animal, understood the value of reaching out to Pakistan's political leadership long before the bureaucrats at the State Department realized this would be useful at a future date,'' the official said. The ambassador ''did not make policy or change policy, he just became an alternate channel,'' the official said. 
 Of Mr. Khalilzad's Pakistan contacts, Sean I. McCormack, the State Department spokesman, said, ''Our very clear policy is that the Pakistanis have to work out any domestic political questions for themselves.'' Gordon D. Johndroe, a White House spokesman, said, ''The Pakistani elections are an internal matter for the Pakistani people.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about complaints by senior Bush administration officials that Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador to the United Nations, had what they considered unauthorized contacts with Asif Ali Zardari, who is favored to win the presidency of Pakistan, attributed an erroneous distinction to Mr. Khalilzad. He was the second ambassador to Afghanistan, not the first. (Robert Finn preceded him.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, a longtime friend of a leading Pakistani politician.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (78%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (77%); HAMAD KARZAI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



656 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: As the Democrats Take the Stage

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama Selects Biden, Adding Foreign Expertise to Ticket'' (front page, Aug. 24):
 What a strong message!
 Senator Barack Obama's selection of Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. as his running mate told me a great deal about this presidential candidate. Americans, both Democrats and Republicans, should applaud the choice. 
 Mr. Obama chose someone with impeccable credentials on foreign policy, after he carefully assessed the threats facing our nation. He sent a strong message to our allies and enemies that he intends to protect the homeland and its interests around the world. 
 Clearly, this is a person with the fortitude and guts to do what is right and necessary, not just what is politically correct. John Somers 
 Clearwater, Fla., Aug. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I applaud Senator Barack Obama for selecting Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. to be his running mate. Mr. Biden has been a leader in international affairs for decades, including his stewardship as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
 Equally important, he has a genuine grasp of what ordinary Americans face. He came from a working-class upbringing in Scranton, Pa., and he still commutes every night from Washington to his home in Delaware. 
 For these reasons and others, I have confidence that he will be a great candidate and, if elected, a great vice president. Steven M. Clayton 
 Ocean, N.J., Aug. 24, 2008
 The writer is a Democratic committeeman.
 To the Editor:
 I feel like crying.
 I had a vision of a roaring crowd at the Democratic National Convention as Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton raised their hands together as the candidates of the party. 
 It would have been real! Real excitement. Real fervor. 
 Now we get ho-hum. Is that a winning strategy or what? 
 We Democrats have done it again. Ho-hum. Carolee Luecken 
 Sherrodsville, Ohio, Aug. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The headline underneath your main headline reads: ''Choice Puts Emphasis on Experience and Political Skills'' (front page, Aug. 24). 
 Shouldn't it be the other way around? Shouldn't the presidential candidate be the one with expertise and experience? 
 Shouldn't the vice-presidential candidate be the apprentice, the one who hones political skills and gains experience in the course of a four- to eight-year stint of service?
 There are many jobs where skills can be acquired only through hands-on experience, but surely the presidency of the United States is not one of them.
 The Bush-Cheney partnership should have taught us all we need to know about novice presidents and politically seasoned vice presidents. 
 Cathy Bernard 
 New York, Aug. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As an Iraqi-American, I have enthusiastically supported Barack Obama's candidacy for president, especially because of his fresh thinking on Iraq. But I am concerned about his selection of Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. as his running mate. 
 In 2006, Mr. Biden and Leslie H. Gelb proposed a plan on Iraq that would split the country into three autonomous regions according to ethnic and religious lines, thus, in Mr. Biden's words, ''making oil the glue that binds the country together.''
 Inherent in this plan is the fundamental flaw that has plagued the Bush administration's endeavor in Iraq from the outset: lack of Iraqi popular support. 
 Indeed, even while there is ethnic and religious strife in Iraq, there is little evidence that a majority of the population of Iraq would support a plan to cut their country into three parts. 
 It is a sense of national identity and pride -- not oil -- that holds Iraq together. Destroying this would ensure more bloodshed and further victimize the Iraqi people.
 An Obama-Biden administration would be better off if it abandoned the approaches of its predecessor -- de-Bushification, if you will -- and recognized that valuing the will of the Iraqi people would better serve all. 
 Jennifer R. Ridha 
 New York, Aug. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Senate Stalwart Who Bounced Back'' (Man in the News, front page, Aug. 24):
 In the ''Where He Stands'' chart accompanying your introduction of Senator Barack Obama's pick for vice president, you tell us where Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. stands on 13 issues, from abortion to gay marriage to Guantanamo, domestic wiretapping and the death penalty. 
 But you don't tell us where he stands on one of the most significant issues of our time -- world poverty, and America's lamentably stingy and often misdirected foreign aid program. 
 Why isn't this a campaign issue? 
 How can it ever become one, if the news media never discuss the candidates' stands on it? Peter Singer 
 Princeton, N.J., Aug. 24, 2008
 The writer is a professor of bioethics at Princeton University.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Last Call for Change We Can Believe In,'' by Frank Rich (column, Aug. 24):
 If Senator Barack Obama is to be the next president, I suppose it will be because many Americans think we are on the wrong course, having suffered years of an awful war followed by an economy with lots of problems. 
 Americans are hurting, and that bodes well for a smart and articulate candidate like Mr. Obama. Moreover, Mr. Obama is that rare blend of homespun talent with a suggestion of superstardom in his future. Americans are drawn to that kind of promise.
 Still, this is a nation divided along social lines. So while the election, as some say, may be Mr. Obama's to lose, it is certainly not in the bag. He seems to know that better than anyone, as he begins to show us what kind of administration he will lead. 
 Emerging from the promise of change is the promise of good, strong leadership, and isn't that what presidential elections are always about? Bruce Neuman 
 Sag Harbor, N.Y., Aug. 24, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TUCKER NICHOLS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); WRITERS (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOE BIDEN (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008



657 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Front-Runner In Pakistan Has Been Ill, Report Says

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Asif Ali Zardari, who is favored to win the presidency in elections here next week, filed medical records in a London courtroom that stated that he suffered from a range of mental illnesses, according to an account in The Financial Times on Tuesday. 
 Mr. Zardari, the widower of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto who served more than eight years in prison in Pakistan on corruption charges that were dismissed this year under an amnesty agreement, suffered from dementia, major depression disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder, the newspaper reported that the medical records said. 
 His lawyers used the diagnosis to argue that Mr. Zardari was unable to appear in court to challenge corruption charges by the Pakistani government alleging that he had bought a British country manor with ill-gotten gains. The case was dropped in March, about the same time the corruption charges against him in Pakistan were dismissed, the newspaper reported.
 In the court documents, a New York psychiatrist, Philip Saltiel, wrote that Mr. Zardari was suffering from ''emotional instability'' brought on by his lengthy incarceration, and that he suffered memory and concentration problems, the report said. ''I do not foresee any improvement in these issues for at least a year,'' Mr. Saltiel wrote.
 The Pakistani high commissioner in London, Wajid Shamsul Hasan, an appointee of Mr. Zardari, said that Mr. Zardari was now healthy, and that his doctors had ''declared him fit to run for political office and free of any symptoms,'' the report said. He is running for the office that was vacated by President Pervez Musharraf, who resigned under pressure this month. 
 In the increasingly lawless northern city of Peshawar on Tuesday morning, three men with assault rifles and the long hair and beards of the Taliban attacked a vehicle carrying a top American diplomat, the provincial police chief said.
 The bulletproof Land Cruiser carrying the diplomat, Lynne Tracy, the principal officer at the United States Consulate in Peshawar, was stopped by the three men who got out of a sport utility vehicle and fired, said the police official, Malik Naveed Khan, inspector general of the police in North-West Frontier Province.
 Ms. Tracy, who was headed to work at the consulate from her home about a mile away, was unharmed, he said.
 The men attacked as the Taliban, who virtually control the tribal areas adjacent to Peshawar, pressed in on the city, conducting suicide bomb attacks and kidnapping civilians. 
 The attack took place in a district known as University Town, considered one of the more secure areas with large houses protected by high walls and guards.
 About 30 Americans work at the consulate, mostly managing economic development programs and as liaisons between the American military and the Pakistani Army. Since the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and the Pentagon, when Pakistan joined the Bush administration in the fight against terrorism, the movements of American diplomats in Pakistan have been restricted, and they have been advised not to travel outside major cities.
 Lou Fintor, a spokesman for the American Embassy in Islamabad, said, ''There was a security incident in Peshawar this morning involving a U.S. Consulate vehicle.'' He said three employees were in the car.
 A current focus of the consulate is a $750 million program to encourage economic development and to counter the influence of the Taliban in the nearby tribal areas. A number of Americans who work on that program but who are not officially employees of the consulate live in the city.
 Two Americans were killed in 2002, when gunmen attacked a Protestant church in Islamabad. In 2006, a car bombing killed an American diplomat at the consulate in Karachi. 
 In the past year, suicide bombers have attacked Pakistani military targets in Peshawar. Last week, the Pakistani Taliban took responsibility for a suicide bomber who hit a bus carrying members of the Pakistani Air Force, killing 14. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); DEMENTIA (77%); DEPRESSION (77%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (77%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); PRISONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ARMIES (71%); LAWYERS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); TERRORISM (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (64%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (63%); FIREARMS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); BOMBINGS (62%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (56%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



658 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Profits Decline at Two Canadian Banks

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Bank of Montreal and Bank of Nova Scotia, the first Canadian banks to report third-quarter earnings, said profits declined on rising loan losses.
 Bank of Montreal, Canada's fourth-biggest bank, said net income for the period fell 21 percent, to 521 million Canadian dollars ($497 million), or 98 cents a share, its fifth straight profit decline. 
 Scotiabank, the No. 3 lender, said profit in the period, which ended July 31 for both banks, dropped 1.9 percent to 1.01 billion Canadian dollars, or 98 cents a share. Both banks are based in Toronto.
 Bank of Montreal set aside 484 million dollars for bad loans, five times more than a year earlier, while Scotiabank's provisions rose 73 percent, to 159 million dollars.
 ''The trend is still down,'' said Jim Hall of Mawer Investment Management in Calgary. ''This quarter's bad; next quarter's probably not going to be much prettier.''
 Profit at BMO Capital Markets, the investment bank unit of Bank of Montreal, increased 34 percent to 259 million dollars from a year earlier, as trading revenue surged to 220 million dollars, more than five times that of a year ago. Results in the unit were pared by 19 million dollars in costs for job cuts, and pretax write-downs of 134 million dollars for the declining value of debt investments, preferred shares and Canadian asset-backed commercial paper.
 Bank of Montreal has taken 898 million dollars in debt-related write-downs in the last four quarters, joining other banks amid a global credit squeeze that has spread from the United States as defaults on subprime mortgage loans surge.
 Bank of Montreal's Canadian consumer banking profit fell 3.7 percent to 343 million dollars on higher taxes and costs for adding branches and hiring mortgage specialists and financial planners. Profit from its Chicago-based Harris consumer bank rose 12 percent to 28 million Canadian dollars, while profit from its private client group, which includes brokerage, investing services and mutual funds, rose 7.8 percent to 110 million dollars.
 Scotiabank's earnings from Canadian banking jumped 17 percent to a record 463 million dollars on increases in deposits and mortgages. International banking profit, from about 50 countries including Chile and Jamaica, climbed 21 percent before preferred dividends to 335 million dollars.
 Profit at Scotia Capital rose 6 percent, to 297 million dollars in the period, as revenue from its oil advisory unit Scotia Waterous and fixed-income fees offset a decline in derivatives trading.
 Slower economic growth globally means Scotiabank is unlikely to meet its growth target for earnings per share for the year, the bank said.
 Scotiabank's revenue rose 5.3 percent to 3.48 billion Canadian dollars, while Bank of Montreal's climbed 7.5 percent to 2.75 billion Canadian dollars.
 Royal Bank of Canada, the country's largest bank, and Toronto-Dominion Bank, the second biggest, report on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); RETAIL BANKING (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (66%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (63%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (96%); BANK OF MONTREAL (95%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (84%)

TICKER: BNS (TSX) (96%); BNS (NYSE) (96%); BMO (TSX) (95%); BMO (NYSE) (95%); RY (TSX) (84%); RY (SWX) (84%); RY (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (96%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (95%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



659 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: RUSSIA DECLARES ITS RECOGNITION OF TWO ENCLAVES

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY; Reporting was contributed by Ellen Barry in Vladikavkaz, Russia; Helene Cooper in Washington; Nicholas Kulish in Tallinn, Estonia; and Steven Erlanger in Paris.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Russia on Tuesday recognized the independence of two enclaves that have long sought to secede from neighboring Georgia. The action deepened strains with the West over the conflict in the economically vital crossroads of the Caucasus and roiled a broader debate over how to respond to separatist movements around the world.
 The Russian decision was intended to consolidate its political and military gains in the two and a half weeks since it invaded Georgia after hostilities flared over the breakaway territory of South Ossetia, an ally of Moscow. 
 The Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, declared in a nationally televised address that South Ossetia and the other pro-Russian enclave, Abkhazia, would never again have to endure what he described as oppressive Georgian rule. 
 ''This is not an easy choice, but it is the only way to save the lives of people,'' Mr. Medvedev said.
 With Russia's image and financial markets suffering in recent days, Mr. Medvedev took the unusual step of giving a series of interviews to foreign media on Tuesday to explain the move. He said Russia had abided by international law in recognizing the two enclaves, but he left no doubt that the decision was in part retaliation for the West's support earlier this year for the independence of Kosovo from Serbia, which Russia had opposed.
 The United States and its allies denounced the decision, saying that Georgia must not be broken apart and contending that Russia was violating the cease-fire framework that it signed to halt the fighting. The Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, accused Russia of trying to annex South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
 ''This is a challenge for the entire world,'' Mr. Saakashvili said. ''Not just Georgia.''
 In Washington, President Bush said, ''Russia's action only exacerbates tensions and complicates diplomatic negotiations.''
 While the dispute centers on two slices of land, it has been playing out against a much broader backdrop of historic antagonism among the major powers over separatist movements. 
 World leaders have for years struggled to determine which ones to recognize, often making decisions and then trying to limit the repercussions by warning that each situation is unique.
 The questions now are: whether that hesitance to bestow recognition could be eroding, as witnessed by Kosovo and Russia's action in Georgia; and whether other independence movements will use the recognition of the two enclaves to further their own ambitions by citing similar grievances. Not far from Georgia, for example, is an Armenian enclave that wants to secede from Azerbaijan, and Kurdish separatists are seeking their own homeland in regions of Turkey and Iraq.
 In the past, most countries feared that if they waded into one such conflict, it could be used against them in a future one. On Tuesday, no other big power followed Moscow's lead and voiced support for South Ossetia's and Abkhazia's independence.
 Many in Abkhazia have expressed the desire to be separate both from Georgia and Russia -- and some experts say it might be viable as an independent nation, albeit a very small one, because of its larger size and busy port. 
 South Ossetia, in contrast, has only 70,000 people and borders on the Russian region of North Ossetia. Suspicions have long arisen that after seceding from Georgia, South Ossetia would be absorbed by Russia and joined with North Ossetia -- and most Ossetians say they support that. 
 The Kremlin said Tuesday that it had no plans to take over South Ossetia. It has already given Russian passports to many residents of both places, thereby widening its influence. 
 Mr. Medvedev announced the enclaves' independence with unexpected swiftness, only a day after the Russian Parliament unanimously called upon him to do so. Diplomats and analysts had surmised that the Kremlin might draw the process out as part of negotiations with the West.
 But tensions between the sides have been escalating, and not only over the status of the regions. On Tuesday, Russian military and diplomatic officials continued to complain about NATO efforts to assist Georgia, suggesting that the alliance might be trying to send military equipment, rather than humanitarian aid. The Russians also expressed discomfort about the presence of NATO ships in the Black Sea off the coast of Georgia.
 Russia has for months been seething over the West's decision this year to recognize Kosovo's independence from Serbia, a traditional Russian ally. The Russians were especially angered when Western diplomats emphasized that Kosovo was not any sort of precedent and had no bearing on the standing of the breakaway enclaves in Georgia.
 As if to drive home the idea that recognition of the enclaves was in some sense payback, Mr. Medvedev used an interview on Tuesday with Russia Today, the Kremlin-financed English-language channel, to turn the West's rationale on Kosovo against it.
 ''There was a special situation in Kosovo, there is a special situation in South Ossetia and Abkhazia,'' he said. ''Speaking about our situation, it is obvious that our decision is aimed at preventing the genocide, the elimination of a people, and helping them get on their feet.''
 Still, Russia, a sprawling nation with many nationalities, has faced its own secessionist pressures, notably in the Muslim region of Chechnya, where Moscow has fought two wars to crush an independence movement. Even as they were hailing the independence of the two enclaves, Russian officials were trying to explain why Chechnya did not deserve the same right.
 They contended that when Chechnya had had autonomy in the late 1990s, it became a source of tremendous instability, and Russia had no choice but to reassert complete control. 
 ''You know what they did to their own place,'' the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said Tuesday. ''They turned it into a place where international terrorists were feeling at home.''
 Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, this part of the world has been a locus of the problem of addressing separatist aspirations.
 For a time, a consensus developed in the West, but with two aims that sometimes appeared to be in conflict. On one hand, the allies, led by the United States, were quick to recognize the independence of former Soviet republics, including Georgia itself, the better to wrest these countries away from Russia's orbit and into the arms of the West.
 ''Depending on where you sat, you could easily call those places breakaway republics,'' said Derek Chollet, a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security in Washington, adding that many hard-liners in Russia did see those countries as breakaway regions.
 On the other hand, a post-cold-war understanding, hardened by the experience in Bosnia, developed that the West should be very careful about recognizing breakaway regions, so as not to set a precedent, or embolden secessionist areas, Mr. Chollet said.
 That consensus held until February, when Kosovo declared independence, and the West said Serbia lost its right to Kosovo because of actions over the years by the Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic, who died in 2006.
 Igor Lukes, a professor of international relations at Boston University, said international law contained clear standards for evaluating whether an independence movement should be recognized, in part based upon whether such a territory has well-defined borders, a well-established central authority and a populace that strongly desires secession.
 The problem is that these judgments typically become hostage to conflicts between large nations, as in the case of Kosovo, South Ossetia and Abkhazia, Mr. Lukes said.
 ''These situations are not really murky,'' he said. ''What makes the situations murky is each superpower tries to exploit ad hoc situations as they emerge to advance its interests and to hurt its rivals. It's really the way the superpowers manipulate the reality. It's not the reality that is complicated.''
 On the border area around Russia and South Ossetia on Tuesday, there was mostly joy. Hundreds of South Ossetians streamed south to their homes, buoyed by Russia's decision.
 At a rest home in Alagir, an hour's drive from the border, aid workers sat alone, eating sardines. It was one of the first moments since the crisis began early this month when they looked out at an empty dormitory.
 Three hundred refugees had left in the morning, and 400 more were expected to pass through on Wednesday on their way to the narrow Roki Tunnel, which cuts through the nearly vertical ridge of the Caucasus to South Ossetia.
 ''This was the only hope of people who live on the other side of the pass to return to a normal way of life,'' said Avan Galachiyev, an agent of the Federal Migration Service who had been helping the refugees.
 Artur Dzhoiyev, whose family fled their village, Hampalgon, 18 years ago, was thinking idly about returning to his ''historic motherland,'' maybe building a house.
 Now, he reasoned, things would be different. No Georgian checkpoints, no need to lurch along rocky bypass roads, no rooting for documents under the hostile gaze of soldiers.
 The Georgians, Mr. Galachiyev said, have lost control of the road. 
 ''And they won't get it back,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: News from Russia set off celebrations in Abkhazia on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OLGA KRAVETS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Residents of Tskhinvali, South Ossetia, rejoiced Tuesday after Russia recognized South Ossetia's and Abkhazia's independence.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI KARPUKHIN/REUTERS)(pg. A12) CHART: Flash Points for Secession: The world has dozens of places where separatist sentiment smolders, whether for independence, or realignment with another country. Here are a few.(CHART BY FORD FESSENDEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); GEORGIA (96%); SERBIA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); ARMENIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



660 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Still Falling, But the Pace Is Slowing

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Home sales have begun to stabilize as sharply reduced prices lured buyers back into the market in July, according to a pair of reports issued this week. And prices, once plummeting at a breakneck pace, fell in June at a more moderate clip.
But prices will have to keep falling, economists said on Tuesday, before the housing market can make a full recovery. Much of the buying last month stemmed from fire sales of foreclosed homes. And prices are expected to keep sagging under the weight of an enormous backlog of unsold homes. 
For now, ''it's still a buyer's market, and likely to be so for a while,'' said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist of PNC Bank. ''Home buyers are holding all the aces.''
A report on Tuesday showed that in the 12 months through June, American home values dropped 15.9 percent, the biggest annual decline on record.
All 20 cities measured in the report, the Case-Shiller index, reported annual declines in June, with seven cities showing price drops of more than 20 percent. A separate 10-city price index, which began in 1988, was off 17 percent, its worst annual reading ever.
But the report offered signs that the pace of price declines is slowing. In June, nine cities recorded an increase in home values from the month before, with prices in Boston, Denver and Minneapolis all up at least 1 percent. That compared with increases in seven cities in May. For all 20 cities, prices fell 0.5 percent in June, after a 0.9 percent decline in May.
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that more Americans bought newly built homes in July, with sales up 2.4 percent to an annual pace of 515,000 units, less than the 525,000 expected by economists. The positive sales figure came a day after a private agents' group reported that sales of previously owned homes rose 3.1 percent in July.
The new reports signaled to some analysts that the sharpest corrections in home prices and sales might be over. ''The biggest declines, they're all behind us now,'' said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight, a research firm.
''But,'' he added, ''that doesn't mean we're in any sense ready to move up. Or that we're ready for sales to accelerate. Or for prices to flatten out.''
While some buyers may be coming back into the market, many obstacles to a recovery remain. Mortgage rates rose this summer as lenders continued to tighten their standards for issuing home loans. Inventories of previously owned homes rose last month, and foreclosures are expected to continue.
''The supply of homes is going to remain very large for quite some time, and that means prices are far from hitting bottom,'' Mr. Hoffman said.
Consumer confidence also remains low, which could discourage demand. A survey by the Conference Board, released on Tuesday, showed that confidence was up in August, but still lower than its level in the spring. Among the 5,000 households included in the survey, 3.3 percent of respondents said they planned to buy a home in the next six months, a big increase from the month before.
Still, economists expect that home sales will stay moderately low for an extended period, as buyers wait for prices to fall even further.
''Sales are probably not going to rebound any time soon because the mortgage conditions continue to get tighter,'' Mr. Gault said. He said that the excess supply meant that ''prices have still got to come down some more.''
Of the 20 cities surveyed in the Case-Shiller index, Las Vegas had the worst annual decline, with values dropping 28.6 percent in the last year. Prices in Miami fell 28.3 percent, and prices in Phoenix dropped 27.9 percent in the same period.
Only previously owned, single-family homes are included in the Case-Shiller survey, which economists consider the most reliable indicator of home values.
Sales of new homes slipped in Midwestern and Southern states, according to the Commerce Department report, but rose in the Northeast and West. The median price of a new home in July was $230,700, down 6.3 percent from a year ago. Sales of new homes remained 35.3 percent below their level in July 2007.
The new-home sales report is considered volatile by economists, and the government said it had no evidence that the actual change in last month's sales was ''different from zero.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Patrick MacCarthy this month at his new home in Rye, N.Y. Sales of new homes in the Northeast increased last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG RUTTLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
A housing development under construction last week in Atlan-ta. In Southern and Midwestern states, new-home sales fell.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RANK/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C4) CHARTS: New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Prices of New Homes Median price for new homes.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar and line graph for new home sales.(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: PNC BANK NA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



661 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Oil Rises as Consumer Confidence Gains

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street stocks ended mixed Tuesday as concerns about the path of Hurricane Gustav sent oil prices higher and offset a better-than-expected reading on consumer confidence. 
 Comments from the Federal Reserve about rising inflation added to the market's uneasiness. The Fed's release of minutes from its Aug. 5 meeting showed that the central bank remains concerned about inflation and that it expected it would need to raise interest rates to try to contain rising prices.
 At that meeting, policy makers held rates steady because ''American businesses and consumers were facing elevated borrowing costs and reduced credit availability.'' 
 The Fed, however, also said in the minutes that it was far from clear when a rate increase might occur.
 There was some optimism at the start of the day after the Conference Board said its consumer confidence index rose to 56.9 from a revised 51.9 in July; analysts had expected a reading of 53. That marked the second month in a row that sentiment improved.
 Meanwhile, the Commerce Department reported that new-home sales rose 2.4 percent in July. While analysts expected a drop in sales, the July increase came after a sharp downward revision to June's sales.
 Concerns that Gustav would hit installations in the Gulf of Mexico sent energy prices higher. A barrel of crude oil rose $1.16, settling at $116.27 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 ''The overall mood is still one of caution, there's not much out there to get investors excited,'' said Todd Salamone, director of trading at Schaeffer's Investment Research. ''But the bigger picture is that there hasn't really been a major breakdown considering all the bad headlines out there,'' he said, ''from higher oil prices to the credit crisis and troubled housing sector.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 26.62 points, or 0.23 percent, to 11,412.87. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 4.67 points, or 0.37 percent, to 1,271.51; the Nasdaq composite index fell 3.62 points, or 0.15 percent, to 2,361.97.
 Troubles in the housing sector still are not showing any clear signs of abating. The widely watched Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index tumbled the most ever during the second quarter, falling 15.4 percent compared with a year ago.
 In other news, Smithfield Foods, the hog producer and pork processor, said Tuesday it swung to a fiscal first-quarter loss partly because of a $20.1 million write-down in the value of commodities contracts. Shares fell $1.62, or 6.9 percent, to $21.91.
 The price of the 10-year note rose 2/32, to 101 27/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, dipped to 3.77 percent, from 3.76 percent.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's auctions of four-week and 52-week Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INFLATION (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (87%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); HURRICANES (78%); PORK (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); HOG & PIG FARMING (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (52%)

COMPANY: SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: SFD (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (51%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (51%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



662 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Fed Hints It Will Raise Benchmark Interest Rate

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers expect to eventually raise their benchmark interest rate in an effort to slow inflation, but they have not agreed to a timetable for the move, according to minutes of the Fed's last meeting in early August. 
 ''Members generally anticipated that the next policy move would likely be a tightening'' of interest rates, according to the minutes, which were released on Tuesday. But ''the timing and extent of any change in policy stance would depend on evolving economic and financial developments and the implications for the outlook for economic growth and inflation.''
 Although members of the Fed's policy-making body, the Federal Open Market Committee, are not tethered to the comments, their remarks reinforced a sense on Wall Street that the central bank is carefully watching the trend of rising prices, and is more likely to raise rates than lower them by the beginning of next year. 
 Inflation is running at the fastest pace in decades, despite a recent retrenchment in gasoline and energy prices. Several members of the Fed board ''worried about the possibility that core inflation might fail to moderate next year unless the stance of monetary policy was tightened sooner than currently anticipated by financial markets.''
 Still, the prevailing view among Fed governors at the Aug. 5 meeting appeared to be that inflation would taper off next year. 
 Echoing public comments made by Fed officials in recent weeks, the members of the open market committee anticipated a significant economic slowdown over the next several quarters. ''Economic activity was likely to remain damped,'' the minutes said, and the officials believed growth may not pick up until the second half of 2009.
 ''The labor market continued to weaken significantly, financial conditions remained unfavorable, consumer and business confidence was downbeat, and manufacturing activity was contracting,'' the minutes said. Economic growth from April to June, however, was faster than the bankers had anticipated. 
 Officials remained concerned that the tight credit market and the housing slump would continue to slow the economy. They also worried about ''possible further deterioration in financial conditions.'' 
 But they seemed to consider a further rise in inflation as an equal obstacle to growth. Some members were particularly concerned that Americans would become inured to higher prices, which could make it more difficult to shake off inflation in the long term.
 At the meeting's conclusion, the committee decided to hold its benchmark interest rate steady at 2 percent. Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, dissented, saying he preferred an increase. 
 ''He saw a greater risk to the economy from upward pressures on inflation,'' the minutes said, referring to Mr. Fisher. ''In his view, businesses had become more inclined to raise prices to pass on the higher costs of imported goods and higher energy costs, the latter of which were well above their levels of late 2007.''
 Investors who bet on the Fed's actions do not expect the central bank to raise rates until early next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



663 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Where's the Prosperity?

 BODY:
There is so little good economic news these days that we were cheered on Tuesday after the Census Bureau reported that in 2007 the income of the typical American household rose for the third year in a row. We weren't cheered for long. 
 A closer look confirms what Americans already know: most families reaped none of the benefits of the previous six years of solid economic growth. Median household income last year was still 0.6 percent less than it was in 2000, when the last economic expansion peaked. Households led by someone 65 or under made an average of $56,545 last year -- 3.4 percent less than in 2000. 
 The census offers the same mirage when it comes to health insurance. While the overall number of uninsured dropped -- from 47 million in 2006 to 45.7 million last year -- that still left the number of uninsured Americans 7.2 million higher than in 2000. The improvements were entirely attributable to an increase in the number of people enrolled in Medicaid and other public programs. 
 What makes the news particularly bleak is that last year was probably the best year of the economic expansion that started at the end of 2001. Surveying the wreckage since then, it appears all but certain that this year's census data will be worse. 
 The report has other grim news. The number of people living under the poverty line rose by 5.7 million since 2000, to 12.5 percent of the population. And the number of impoverished children increased to 18 percent. 
 There are multiple reasons why Americans are working harder and not getting ahead, including a weak labor movement, globalization, technological change and a slowdown in educational attainment. Except for a few years in the late '90s, wages and benefits have grown more slowly than the nation's income for nearly 30 years. Under the Bush administration workers' share of national income has fallen with a vengeance, to its lowest point since the 1960s. The Bush expansion may be the first in recorded history in which poverty rose and typical American families never regained the level of income they had attained at the end of the prior one. 
 What is clear is that economic growth alone will not cut it for most American families. The benefits must be shared more broadly. This means more progressive taxation, increasing access to affordable health care, investing more in public education. 
 President Bush was too busy cutting taxes on top earners to think about any of these priorities. The next president must do much better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); POVERTY RATES (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); MEDICAID (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (69%); CHILD POVERTY (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



664 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'TRAITOR'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: In a World Of Extremists, Shades of Gray Add Ambiguity

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
''Traitor,'' a somber, absorbing and only moderately preposterous new thriller written and directed by Jeffrey Nachmanoff, manages an impressive feat of economy, condensing a vast and sometimes contradictory compendium of post-9/11 fears and anxieties into 110 swift minutes. The terrorists are all around us! The government is not doing enough to catch them! It's doing too much! 
 The movie, despite its unassuming style and tightly focused story, tries to cover every side and cater to just about every possible ideological objection, an effort at comprehensiveness that seems noble and a little nutty. There are, for instance, two F.B.I. agents, Clayton and Archer. Archer (Neal McDonough) is prone to making insensitive remarks about Islam and the Bill of Rights, and to smacking around suspected terrorists; Clayton (Guy Pearce), a minister's son with a soothing Southern accent, delivers calm homilies on religious tolerance and holds a Ph.D. in Arabic studies. 
 On the other side, there is Fareed (Aly Khan), a murderous and mercenary master terrorist whose jihadist cant is indistinguishable from hypocrisy. But then again there is Omar (Said Taghmaoui), one of Fareed's lieutenants, who, if you put aside his vocation as a planner of suicide bombings, seems like a pretty smart and thoughtful guy. American foreign policy is criticized in a general way -- hot-button words like Iraq, Israel and oil are never uttered -- and no one could accuse Mr. Nachmanoff of underplaying the danger of Muslim extremism. 
 His point is not to suggest an easy symmetry -- or, goodness knows, moral equivalence -- between terrorists and American law-enforcement officials. Rather, the film's sometimes clumsy efforts at topicality illuminate the conflicted psychology of its main character, Samir Horn (Don Cheadle). Samir, the son of an American mother and a Sudanese father, is an observant Muslim and a veteran of the Army Special Forces, a highly trained warrior whose allegiances are, at first and for a gratifyingly long time afterward, decidedly ambiguous. 
 He is, in other words, an elegantly conceived and suavely played construct, a theoretical being born out of a very real political conflict. Samir, enigmatic and quiet though he is, has less in common with Robert Ludlum's Jason Bourne than he does with some of the cold-war specters dreamed up by John le Carre in his prime. Samir's doubleness is built into his biography, and whatever choice he makes is likely to constitute some form of betrayal. 
 His friendship with Omar, whose partner he becomes in organizing murderous operations in Europe and America, seems genuine, even as the audience doubts his loyalty to Omar's cause.
 There are some scenes that groan with half-digested themes, but Mr. Cheadle's performance gives ''Traitor'' a sense of ethical gravity and real intrigue. The story demands that we entertain the possibility that Samir is a bad guy, and also that he retain our sympathy when our doubts about him are most acute. Mr. Cheadle, as subtle an actor as any working in movies today, accomplishes this without raising his voice or breaking a sweat. He has an ability to lay claim to the audience's trust without quite reciprocating it, to seem at once guileless and guarded.
 And Samir is mysterious precisely because he seems, at every turn, utterly sincere, honest even at his moments of greatest duplicity.
 Somehow the character retains his credibility even as the movie, perhaps inevitably, trips over some of its own complexities and confusions. On balance, though, Mr. Nachmanoff succeeds more often than he fails. A screenwriter (''The Day After Tomorrow'') making his debut as a director, he does not attempt the breathless pace and kaleidoscopic cutting that have become the dominant manner in globe-trotting action-suspense filmmaking. (See ''The Kingdom'' and especially the last two Bourne pictures.) Instead he builds up suspense slowly, cutting deliberately between the terrorists and their pursuers and withholding just enough information to set up surprises that don't seem completely absurd.
 The story moves around a lot -- from Yemen to Canada, from Chicago to Marseille -- and involves a lot of interesting minor characters, from Samir's former girlfriend (Archie Panjabi) to the intelligence bureaucrat (Jeff Daniels) who knows his deepest secrets. But at its best ''Traitor'' feels less like the usual rushed, contrived action-travelogue than like an intimately scaled drama of ambiguous motives and fretful moral dilemmas. It holds your attention, even if you never quite believe it.
 ''Traitor'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has many violent scenes and some profanity.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAFY/OVERTURE FILMS)
 Don Cheadle's character, the son of a Sudanese father and an American mother, is a trained warrior with an ambiguous edge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAFY/OVERTURE FILMS)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); COLD WAR (74%); ETHICS (74%); RELIGION (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); ARMIES (71%); ARMED FORCES (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (92%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%)

TITLE: Traitor (Movie)>; Traitor (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



665 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: In Dispute Over Plan to Auction Off Airport Slots, U.S. Threatens to Cut Aid

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The Federal Aviation Administration threatened on Tuesday to cut off $27 million in annual grants to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, escalating a legal battle over the Bush administration's plan to auction off landing slots at some of the nation's busiest airports, a plan that the authority bitterly opposes and one that has divided elected officials. 
 The Port Authority said on Aug. 4 that it would prohibit planes from landing or taking off at slots acquired by auction. Two days later, the Bush administration vowed to move forward with its auction plan, starting with two slots at Newark Liberty International Airport that were previously allotted to EOS Airlines, a bankrupt carrier that folded. The auction is to begin on Sept. 3. 
 The war of words heated up on Tuesday. The F.A.A. said the Port Authority's proposed ban would ''violate federal regulations'' because airports receiving federal grants are ''required to provide airlines with reasonable and nondiscriminatory access to their facilities.''
 In turn, the Port Authority filed a six-page motion with the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, seeking to join a lawsuit filed by the Air Transport Association, which represents the country's airlines and has challenged the auction plan. In the motion, Milton H. Pachter, a lawyer for the Port Authority, argued that the F.A.A. lacked the legal authority to conduct such auctions and that the auction amounted to an increase in user fees, which would require Congressional authorization.
 The agencies issued dueling press releases, each defending its actions and criticizing those of the other side.
 ''The slot auctions are necessary to ensure that all airlines have an opportunity to compete in the New York markets now that the number of flights at each of the three major regional airports has been capped,'' Brian Turmail, a spokesman for the United States Department of Transportation, which oversees the F.A.A., said in a statement. ''The auctions will preserve competitive airline service, help lower fares for service to and from the region, and give new carriers an opportunity to enter the market.'' 
 In a statement posted on its Web site, the Port Authority said the auction plan ''would result in higher costs for airlines, increased ticket prices for airline passengers, and fewer flights to small communities.''
 While the wrangling on Tuesday was dramatic, the amount of money involved is relatively tiny. The Federal Aviation Administration said that the three New York-area airports received $27 million in grants under the federal Airport Improvement Program in the 2008 fiscal year. In contrast, the Port Authority's 10-year capital plans for its airports is about $6 billion. 
 The federal agency's threat, known as a notice of investigation, calls on the Port Authority ''to engage in good faith efforts to resolve the matter informally,'' saying that the Port Authority's disagreement with the agency ''does not justify prohibiting basic aeronautical access.'' 
 Elected officials have been divided on the auction proposal. New York's two senators, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer, oppose the plan. Mrs. Clinton said in a statement on Tuesday that the threat was ''a new low on the part of the administration and could raise fares for an already over-extended flying public. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey should not be blackmailed into implementing the administration's latest scheme, one that ignores the real problems and may also increase costs.'' 
 She called on the transportation secretary, Mary E. Peters, to abandon the auction idea and come up with long-term plans to improve safety and reduce delays and congestion.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has come out in favor of the auction plan, writing in an Aug. 8 letter to Ms. Peters and the Port Authority, ''The largest culprit of delays today is the overscheduling of small planes by the airlines.'' 
 Flight caps, recently imposed by the Federal Aviation Administration at all three of the region's big airports, do not solve the congestion problem and hurt the New York economy, Mr. Bloomberg said, and big planes have environmental advantages over small ones. He called for a ''limited'' experiment to try out more auctions. 
 Mr. Bloomberg complained that ''feeder routes'' from nearby regional airports were clogging the runways. The Port Authority, however, has said that if small planes are discouraged, smaller aviation markets will be cut off from New York. And the airlines have said that the only way they can fill big planes flying to major international destinations is by bringing passengers in on small planes. 
 The Transportation Department has argued that with the caps in place, a fair way to distribute the available slots would be to give them to the airlines that showed they valued them most by paying for them. The auctioning of two slots at Newark was to be a first step in this market-based experiment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); AIRLINES (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); AIR FARES (77%); AIR SERVICE (75%); LAWYERS (74%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); LITIGATION (66%); WEB SITES (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (52%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



666 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Alabama County Prepares for a Possible Bankruptcy Filing

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Officials of Jefferson County in Alabama told their lawyers to prepare a bankruptcy filing if the county was unable to reach an agreement with creditors over how to escape from $3 billion of bonds with soaring interest rates. 
 The Jefferson County Commission voted unanimously on Tuesday to have the law firm of Bradley, Arant, Rose and White and the county attorney take over negotiations with creditors led by JPMorgan Chase and draw up bankruptcy papers should talks falter. The two replace bankers and advisers, including Citigroup, whose proposals failed to win support.
 ''We are hoping for success but preparing for filing if necessary,'' the commission president, Bettye Fine Collins, told reporters. ''This has some likelihood to work. Wall Street may not want to take a chance at court.''
 The agreement with creditors that provided the county time to work toward a solution expires on Friday. Gov. Bob Riley has agreed to help negotiate with Wall Street on a deal to avert a court filing, Ms. Collins said.
 Should the county renege on the debt, it would be the largest municipal bond default ever in the United States, outstripping the Washington Public Power Supply System's $2.25 billion default in 1983 of revenue bonds sold for nuclear plants. 
 Jefferson County, which includes Alabama's largest city, Birmingham, has unsuccessfully sought to refinance debt, amassed building a sewer system, which it now says it cannot afford. More than $3 billion of the bonds, including $2.2 billion of so-called auction-rate debt, have interest that resets frequently, a strategy intended to hold down costs. That backfired when the fallout from the credit crisis pushed the county's rates as high as 10 percent.
 The commission set no timetable for a bankruptcy filing and said it was working to avoid that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BONDS (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); POWER PLANTS (66%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (66%)

COMPANY: BRADLEY ARANT BOULT CUMMINGS LLP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (72%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (72%); JPM (LSE) (72%); 8634 (TSE) (72%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%)

PERSON: BOB RILEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (73%) ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



667 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2279 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, August 27, 2008

 BODY:
International
 AFTER WAR WITH GEORGIA,
 Russia Suffers Drop in Markets
 The effects of Russia's first war as a capitalist country rippled through the Moscow stock markets as foreign investors fled what is likely to be a deep falling out with the West over the war in Georgia. This loss of billions of dollars is confronting the Kremlin with a whole dimension to its geopolitical posturing that never existed during the cold war. PAGE A10 
 90 CIVILIANS KILLED, U.N. FINDS
 A United Nations human rights team has found ''convincing evidence'' that 90 civilians -- among them 60 children -- were killed in United States airstrikes on a village in western Afghanistan on Friday. If the assertion proves to be correct, this would almost certainly be the deadliest case of civilian casualties caused by any United States military operation in Afghanistan since 2001. PAGE A5 
 ARRESTS AT ZIMBABWE PARLIAMENT
 President Robert Mugabe opened Zimbabwe's Parliament to heckling from opposition lawmakers, just hours after the police arrested three more of them, bringing the total to five. Mr. Mugabe declared that he had ''every expectation'' of striking a power-sharing deal with the opposition, but with this action, his government seemed to be complicating prospects for a settlement. PAGE A5 
 HUGE PROTESTS IN BANGKOK
 In Bangkok, thousands of demonstrators besieged government offices and briefly shut down a television station in some of the most aggressive actions in months of street protests. Organizers say they are trying to oust the government of Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej, whom they accuse of corruption and of being a proxy for the former prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra. PAGE A10 
 AFGHAN OPIUM HARVEST SLOWS
 Afghanistan's opium harvest has dropped from last year's record high, the United Nations announced, contending that the tide of opium that engulfed Afghanistan in rising harvests since 2001 was finally showing signs of ebbing. Nevertheless, Afghanistan's poppy crop remains the world's largest, and now 98 percent of the crop is grown in the lawless regions that are in the Taliban's grip. PAGE A8 
 BOMB KILLS 25 IRAQI POLICE RECRUITS
 A bomb killed at least 25 people in an attack on a group of Iraqi police recruits in northern Diyala Province, Iraqi security officials said. They said the attack was carried out by a suicide bomber who blew himself up outside a government building in the city of Jalawla, near the Iranian border. PAGE A9 
 Rice Criticizes Settlement Surge A11
 Digitizing Dead Sea Scrolls A11 
 Rehabbing a Shinto Shrine A6 
 NATIONAL
 COUNTY ONCE AVERSE TO DRILLING IS CONSIDERING OFFSHORE WELLS
 Santa Barbara County became a symbol of the national environmental movement's opposition to offshore oil drilling when an oil spill devastated its coastline in 1969. But on Tuesday, its board of supervisors debated whether to welcome new wells along California's shores. The shift reflects a mood already evident in national polls and in the delicate willingness of some Democratic leaders to open the door to limited coastal drilling. PAGE A13 
 PROCESSING FAILURE DELAYS FLIGHTS
 The Federal Aviation Administration said a failure in its flight plan processing system at a facility outside Atlanta was causing delays at some airports across the country, most seriously at Logan International Airport in Boston, Hartsfield Airport in Atlanta, and O'Hare and Midway airports in Chicago. The F.A.A. shifted the processing to a backup system in Salt Lake City, which is slower. PAGE A13 
 SAT SCORES HOLD STEADY
 After two years of declines, SAT scores stayed put, with averages for the three sections of the exam identical for the class of 2008 and the class of 2007: 502 in the critical-reading section, 515 in the mathematics section, and 494 in the writing section. Women continued to narrow the gender gap in math and critical reading and outscored men on the writing test. PAGE A13 
 TALLY OF ARRESTS IN RAID GROWS
 Federal officials revised upward to 595 the number of suspected illegal immigrants arrested in a raid on a Laurel, Miss., factory this week, making it the largest immigration crackdown on a United States workplace in recent years. On Monday, the day of the raid, officials said at least 350 people had been arrested. PAGE A18 
 NUDISTS WANT STATE TO LOOK AWAY
 Naked surfing. Naked volleyball. Naked sunbathing. It's just another sunny afternoon at the San Onofre State Beach in California, where birthday suits far outnumber bathing ones. But the scores of nudists are violating a ban on nudity at state parks, and now, after three decades of relative tolerance, the state plans to enforce the prohibition after Labor Day. PAGE A12 
 DENVER PLOT RAISES QUESTIONS
 An apparently half-baked plot by three Denver-area men to assassinate Senator Barack Obama on the basis of his race has highlighted the question of exactly what and whom to fear as Mr. Obama prepares to become the first black nominee for president from a major party. The United States attorney for Colorado said racist rants the men made after their arrests did not rise to the level of a ''credible threat.'' Still, one senior F.B.I. official said, ''central questions remain unanswered.'' PAGE A16 
 Business
 ADOPT A HIGHWAY?
 Investment Firms Eye New Targets
 Financial companies like Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley emerged from the exotic investment dust-ups of the credit crisis with a hefty war chest. Now they have turned their sights on something more tangible, and certainly more down to earth: infrastructure projects in the United States and foreign countries. PAGE C1 
 THE HUSTLE IS ON IN CHINA
 There is more to be had in China during the Olympics than gold. Or at least more than gold medals. American sports stars like Serena Williams and Kobe Bryant strategized with their agents, seeking a way to tap into the sports industry in China, which has swelled to $15 billion a year. PAGE C1 
 TROUBLES WITH RENT REGULATION
 The last few years have seen an increased interest in residential property among investors in Upper Manhattan and the Bronx. With it has come a closer look at, and competition for, rent-regulated buildings. Some of them, like the Savoy Park in Harlem, can no longer sustain their regulated rents and are costing owners and lenders millions. PAGE C6 
 DATA POINTS TO SLUMP IN GERMANY
 The odds of a mild recession in Germany rose significantly as data showed the outlook for business had plunged to its lowest level since a downturn in 1993. The euro subsequently hit a six-month low against the dollar, amid worries of a ripple effect across the Continent. PAGE C4 
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 CITY'S POVERTY RATE DECLINES,
 But State's Wealth Gap Grows
 Bucking a national trend, New York City's poverty rate declined in the year ending July 1, 2007, the Census Bureau reported. New York was also one of only 12 states that recorded a significant decline in the poverty rate. But New York's gap between rich and poor, already the highest of any state, grew from the previous year. PAGE A20 
 CUT IN PARKING PERMITS FOR TEACHERS
 New York City drastically cut the number of parking permits given to teachers for parking around schools, to about 11,000 from about 63,000. The cuts were the deepest carried out at any agency in a City Hall crusade against parking perks, but it was not clear what effect, if any, they would have on parking on crowded neighborhood streets around schools. PAGE A21 
 A Scarred Family Tries to Heal PAGE A20 
 ARTS
 MTV'S VIDEO MUSIC AWARDS HOST
 Mines Messy Past for Laughs
 MTV has faced accusations that the Video Music Awards has devolved from a celebration of rock 'n' roll rebellion to a parade of celebrity train wrecks. This year, it has chosen as its master of ceremonies a comedian who firmly represents both traditions: Russell Brand is best known in this country for playing a rock musician in ''Forgetting Sarah Marshall,'' and in his native England for possessing a rap sheet as long and knotted as his tousled locks. PAGE E1 
 THEATER IS RENOVATED
 The Mark Taper Forum, one of the country's most celebrated regional theaters and a cultural mainstay of Southern California, has long been problematic because of its architecture. (There was very little room backstage, and the curved walls made it difficult to transplant shows created for more standard spaces.) After millions were spent to gut and update everything in the building that wasn't concrete, the theater is set to reopen. PAGE E5 
 MORE BURIED HISTORY OF IRAQ WAR
 ''The Way of the World,'' a new book by Ron Suskind, comes smartly dressed in the garb of the scandal genre: an embargoed release, strategic leaks to whet journalistic appetites, author interviews across the cable networks. And with two scandalous revelations, Mark Danner writes, the book delivers. PAGE B1 
 VENICE FILM FESTIVAL OPENING
 The premiere of the Coen brothers' new film, ''Burn After Reading,'' will inaugurate the Venice International Film Festival. The festival's other participants will be arriving from all over the world, but perhaps not by water taxi: the city's water-taxi operators have threatened to go on strike for the duration of the event. PAGE E6 
 IN A WORLD OF EXTREMISTS
 ''Traitor,'' a somber, absorbing and only moderately preposterous new thriller in which Don Cheadle plays a Muslim veteran of the Army Special Forces, manages an impressive feat of economy, A. O. Scott writes. Its writer and director, Jeffrey Nachmanoff, condenses a vast and sometimes contradictory compendium of post-9/11 fears and anxieties into 110 swift minutes. PAGE E1 
 A Master of the Persian Fiddle E3 OBITUARIES
 THOMAS H. WELLER, 93
 A tropical-medicine specialist, he researched tissue cultures and made development of the Salk and Sabin polio vaccines possible, which won him and two research colleagues at Harvard a share in the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1954. PAGE D8 
 SPORTS
 RUSSIAN SIBLINGS BEAT
 American Opponents at Open
 Marat Safin, 28, came to the United States Open to revive his career, having failed to advance past the fourth round of a Grand Slam tournament in more than three years. Dinara Safina, 22, his ascendant sister, came to extend the hottest hand in the women's field, having won two titles and a silver Olympic medal in the last month. The Russian brother and sister both ground out victories against their American opponents. PAGE D5 
 FIRST TASTE OF A PRO GAME
 Eduard and Julia Brodsky, immigrants from Ukraine, went to a handball court in Brooklyn and started hitting tennis balls with rackets. Gail, their only child, watched with big eyes. A little over 10 years later, Gail Brodsky, above, now 17, has won the national hardcourt championship for girls 18 and younger, turned pro and made her debut at the United States Open. PAGE D5 
 BASEBALL WILL USE INSTANT REPLAY
 Major League Baseball's commissioner, Bud Selig, announced that instant replay would be used in all games starting Friday and throughout the season. Baseball is the last of the four major sports to use a form of replay to correct calls. PAGE D3 
 DINING
 YOUR MOM'S SECRET RECIPE MAY NOT A SUCCESSFUL RESTAURANT MAKE
 Two of every three new restaurants, delis and food shops close within three years of opening, according to federal government statistics, the same failure rate for small businesses in general. ''It's very easy to fail if you know what you're doing, and even easier if you don't,'' one consultant said. PAGE F1 
 BEERS LIGHT ON ALCOHOLIC PUNCH
 While many craft brewers are trying to quench the nation's growing thirst for extreme beers pumped with alcohol, a small but growing number of brewers, beer experts and importers are applying the brakes and turning toward well-made low-alcohol beers. ''We've all been saying the same thing for about 18 months now,'' said one brewer, ''which is, enough of the high octane.'' PAGE F1 
 ARTISANAL FOOD TO DRINK BY
 For those who prefer to line their stomachs before enjoying, say, a Dewey D at PDT -- rye, sherry, Aperol and bitters -- a new generation of cocktail bars, like Weather Up, Death & Co. and the Pegu Club, provide thoughtful, tasty food beyond the usual burgers, bowls of pretzels and cheese plates. A review by Julia Moskin. PAGE F6 
 Editorial
 STUCK IN GEORGIA
 This is where things stand nearly three weeks after Russia's brazen invasion of Georgia: Russian troops still occupy key areas; Moscow has recognized the independence of two breakaway regions; and Georgia's president is still blustering. And if that isn't unnerving enough, President Bush has decided to dispatch Vice President Dick Cheney to the region. Page A22 
 WHERE'S THE PROSPERITY?
 A close look at the census shows that most American families reaped none of the benefits of the previous six years of solid economic growth. Page A22
 SO FAR OVER THE LINE
 We are appalled by a new video Madonna is showing on her tour. There is no room in decent discourse for comparing a presidential candidate to Hitler. Page A22
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 When you see how much infrastructure has been built in China since 2001, under the banner of the Olympics, and see how much modern infrastructure has been postponed in America since 2001, under the banner of the war on terrorism, it's clear that the next seven years need to be devoted to nation-building in America. Page A23
 A JIHAD GROWS IN KASHMIR
 India's brutal suppression of hundreds of thousands of nonviolent protesters in Kashmir will serve only to turn a new generation of Muslims there toward radicalism, argues Pankaj Mishra in an Op-Ed essay. Page A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); POLICE FORCES (87%); TALIBAN (78%); COLD WAR (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); ARRESTS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); OPIUM (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); OIL EXTRACTION (62%); OIL SPILLS (60%); RELIGION (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: SAMAK SUNDARAVEJ (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



668 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1817 words

HEADLINE: Love Food? Think Twice Before Jumping In

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
WHEN Linda Lipsky taught a course called ''So You Want to Open a Restaurant'' at Temple University in Philadelphia, she deliberately made the business sound like a minefield. She warned her students that it is possible to lose their homes, their life savings, and even the rights to their own names. Her goal, she said, was ''to get two-thirds of them to quit.''
 In fact, two of every three new restaurants, delis and food shops close within three years of opening, according to federal government statistics, the same failure rate for small businesses in general. ''It's very easy to fail if you know what you're doing, and even easier if you don't,'' said Ms. Lipsky, president of Linda Lipsky Restaurant Consultants, a firm based outside Philadelphia that has advised restaurant owners and chains for 20 years.
 While restaurants have long been a dream for the hospitality-minded, the industry has never had such a high profile, thanks to the Food Network and celebrity chefs whose restaurants have become launching pads to marketing empires. 
 The allure is easy to understand, said Peter Rainsford, the vice president for academic affairs at the Culinary Institute of America and co-author of ''The Restaurant Startup Guide.'' 
 ''So many people love to cook, they like food, and they think, boy, I'll have a job where I'll do what I love,'' Mr. Rainsford said. ''They don't realize how hard a job it is, both financially and physically.''
 Charlita Anderson learned, but it was a painful and expensive education. Ms. Anderson, 47, went to law school at Cleveland State University, and has worked in the legal field for 20 years, most recently as a judicial magistrate in suburban Cleveland, hearing cases involving juvenile crimes and traffic violations. But she always longed to run a restaurant that would feature her mother's recipe for gumbo, a family favorite.
 So in 2002, she opened Pepper Red's Blues Cafe in Lorain, Ohio, a Cajun restaurant and nightclub. She did everything at the cafe, from making gumbo to scrubbing the floors and singing torch songs, while still putting in a full day as a magistrate.
 Today her restaurant is no longer in business and she is back to her previous career, where she has paid off the debt she incurred during her 15-month foray into the hospitality business. 
 Ms. Lipsky has repeatedly seen restaurant novices make the same costly mistake: vastly underestimating the money it will take just to break even. She counsels them to have enough money to cover every aspect of a business for the first six months, including food, salaries, benefits, kitchen equipment, rent and utilities.
 Indeed, Barry Sorkin and his four partners were well aware that the odds were tough for Smoque, a Texas-style barbecue joint they opened a year and a half ago on the northwest side of Chicago. But they were determined to beat those odds, with both research and financing.
 The partners -- Mr. Sorkin; two former co-workers at a technology firm; his uncle, who works in the building materials business; and a lawyer -- were all barbecue fanatics who frequently met to grill in each others' backyards. They spent more than a year analyzing the business. 
 Mr. Sorkin quit his job in 2005, and visited restaurants all over the country, including North Carolina and Memphis. (His wife supported the family while he traveled, before the restaurant opened and he started taking a modest salary.) 
 After tasting samples, the partners settled on Texas barbecue, known as ''low and slow'' because it is cooked at a lower temperature for a longer period than other styles. It was a variation they felt had been overlooked by Chicago's numerous rib spots. 
 Mr. Sorkin, who has a degree in journalism, wrote a detailed business plan that ran for more than 40 pages, comparing his concept to the menus of his potential competitors. It featured a heartfelt essay, ''Our View on 'Q,'' that set out the group's philosophy on barbecue; a version of it is posted at the restaurant's Web site, www.smoquebbq.com.
 Along with a simple menu of ribs, brisket, chicken and side dishes like macaroni and cheese and twice-cooked fries, the plan also included an extensive analysis of the expenses the restaurant expected in its first three years. 
 Determining that the North Side of Chicago lacked sufficient rib outlets, the group zeroed in on a storefront on North Pulaski Road, about 15 minutes north of the Loop and 10 minutes from Mr. Sorkin's house.
 Two members of the group pledged their homes to secure a $440,000 Small Business Administration loan to get the restaurant off the ground.
 In the months just before and after Smoque opened, Mr. Sorkin and one of the partners spent 120 to 130 hours a week tying up loose ends. ''I seriously thought we were going to die of exhaustion,'' he said.
 Since Smoque opened, Mr. Sorkin has scaled back to a relatively relaxed 90 hours a week. Now, he is at work by 7 a.m., for a day that starts with stocking wood in a smoker, accepting an order from a meat deliveryman, checking the previous night's receipts and supervising as kitchen assistants chop peppers and prepare peach cobbler. He is on his feet all day, and rarely gets home to see his two toddlers before their bedtime. He can only occasionally catch a beer in a bar near his house.
 But he is not complaining, because Smoque has served many more customers -- thousands more -- than the business plan forecast. 
 ''My old job was challenging, even interesting at times, but I never got the same buzz from knowing that someone got their e-mail fixed,'' Mr. Sorkin said. ''I love barbecue. I love to feed people barbecue, and I love to watch them enjoy it.''
 Ms. Anderson began in a far less ambitious way, relying on her family's encouragement far more than on financial planning, a step that Ms. Lipsky said often proves fatal.
 Her suburban Cleveland cafe was named after her late uncle, whose nickname was Pepper, and her father, dubbed Red. The cafe was the culmination of her lifelong dream to gain more exposure for her mother's gumbo, a recipe handed down from generations of cooks in Louisiana and Mississippi. 
 ''People who have tasted that gumbo say it's the best this side of New Orleans,'' she said. ''It's a big deal in our family.''
 Still working as a magistrate, she began to shop for a location in downtown Lorain, a working-class town, in 2002. Ms. Anderson chose a former Woolworth's store about 40 miles from Cleveland on the shores of Lake Erie, on the hope that long-rumored casino hotels would soon be built.
 Ms. Anderson also felt that local residents, who had few options to hear live music, would patronize a club in their collective backyard rather than drive into the city. 
 Even an economic slowdown that gripped the area after Sept. 11, 2001, did not deter her, because, she figured, ''people have to eat, they want to be entertained.''
 She had a truly secret recipe in her mother's gumbo. Her mother, Claudia Anderson, who had never shared her methods with her daughter growing up, required that she learn the gumbo recipe by heart and make two batches from scratch, without help, before she would agree to let her offer it on the menu, which also featured Southern classics like red beans and rice, cornbread and crawfish.
 Meanwhile, family members, including her husband, son and a flock of relatives, volunteered to work there, meaning she had to hire only one employee, a waitress.
 But before the cafe opened, unexpected costs appeared. To pass inspection, the restaurant needed doors that pushed outward so customers could easily exit. The two doors each cost $1,000. Toilets for the restrooms arrived with no seats.
 ''The tiny little things you don't even expect, they're going to pop up at any time,'' Ms. Anderson said. She was responsible for every detail. ''I went from a highfalutin position to scrubbing the floors,'' Ms. Anderson said.
 The summer after the restaurant opened in May 2002 was promising. Acting as the hostess, Ms. Anderson rushed every evening from the courtroom to the cafe, where she tied a custom-designed apron over her business clothes to seat the guests.
 Ms. Anderson, who is not a trained musician, learned to sing blues songs and regularly took a turn on the bandstand. ''It was the most fun I ever had, notwithstanding the stress,'' she said.
 But the joy did not last long. The hotels did not open, and by fall, the crowds that she anticipated would fill the restaurant every night had thinned. The friends she expected would be her regulars were often missing. ''People will encourage you,'' she said, ''but they won't show up every night.'' 
 Ms. Anderson, who had borrowed $17,000 in a small business loan, fell deeper into debt.
 Despite a bump during the 2002 holiday season, her business dried up over the first winter and did not rebound to her first-year level the following summer. Ms. Anderson did not have enough money coming in to cover the rent, $1,000 a month, and she could no longer afford to keep on her employee. In September 2003 she decided to close, a move that left her depressed and embarrassed.
 ''How could someone with a law degree and as smart as you blow it this big?'' Ms. Anderson said she asked herself. But she ultimately decided that it was better to be realistic. ''You have to appreciate that this might not work,'' she said. ''If it doesn't, get out.'' 
 Ms. Anderson's experience is far more typical than Mr. Sorkin's, said Mr. Rainsford. He should know. For five years, when he was a professor at Cornell University's hospitality school, Mr. Rainsford ran a restaurant called O'Malley's on a lake just outside Ithaca, N.Y.
 Mr. Rainsford and his wife soon discovered that the restaurant was not a sideline to his job, but a full-time undertaking for the entire family, especially during the summer. Eventually tiring of the disruption to their routine, and with their children losing interest, the Rainsfords sold O'Malley's to a young couple for a small profit. 
 The experience has helped him give advice to students at the culinary institute, where about half are traditional undergraduates and the rest are older students, many of whom have changed careers or want to enhance skills they have picked up on the fly.
 Many of those students have a romantic vision of life in the food business, he said, fed by the success stories of people like Ina Garten, known as the Barefoot Contessa, who was a White House budget analyst before buying the shop in the Hamptons that started her food career.
 Back in Ohio, former customers still rave about Ms. Anderson's gumbo. She often passes the cafe, now reopened under new ownership and with a new name, on her way home from court.
 Each time she passes, she said, she is tempted to give the restaurant business another try. ''But then I just keep driving, and I say to myself, don't look, don't look, don't look.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HE DID IT ...: Barry Sorkin's barbecue restaurant in Chicago, Smoque, has attracted more customers than his 40-page business plan projected.
... SHE DIDN'T: Charlita Anderson had to close Pepper Red's, her Cajun restaurant and nightclub in Lorain, Ohio, after she fell into debt. ''People will encourage you,'' she said, ''but they won't show up every night.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE, SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, DAVID AHNTHOLZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MAGISTRATES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); STATISTICS (70%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (62%); JUVENILE CRIME (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



669 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: Willing To Lease Your Bridge

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Cleaning up road kill and maintaining runways may not sound like cutting-edge investments. But banks and funds with big money seem to think so. 
 Reeling from more exotic investments that imploded during the credit crisis, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the Carlyle Group, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse are among the investors who have amassed an estimated $250 billion war chest -- much of it raised in the last two years -- to finance a tidal wave of infrastructure projects in the United States and overseas. 
 Their strategy is gaining steam in the United States as federal, state and local governments previously wary of private funds struggle under mounting deficits that have curbed their ability to improve crumbling roads, bridges and even airports with taxpayer money. 
 With politicians like Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California warning of a national infrastructure crisis, public resistance to private financing may start to ease. 
 ''Budget gaps are starting to increase the viability of public-private partnerships,'' said Norman Y. Mineta, a former secretary of transportation who was recently hired by Credit Suisse as a senior adviser to such deals. 
 This fall, Midway Airport of Chicago could become the first to pass into the hands of private investors. Just outside the nation's capital, a $1.9 billion public-private partnership will finance new high-occupancy toll lanes around Washington. This week, Florida gave the green light to six groups that included JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers and the Carlyle Group to bid for a 50- to 75 -year lease on Alligator Alley, a toll road known for sightings of sleeping alligators that stretches 78 miles down I-75 in South Florida. 
 Until recently, the use of private funds to build and manage large-scale American infrastructure assets was slow to take root. States and towns could raise taxes and user fees or turn to the municipal bond market. 
 Americans have also been wary of foreign investors, who were among the first to this market, taking over their prized roads and bridges. When Macquarie of Australia and Cintra of Spain, two foreign funds with large portfolios of international investments, snapped up leases to the Chicago Skyway and the Indiana Toll Road, ''people said 'hold it, we don't want our infrastructure owned by foreigners,' '' Mr. Mineta said. 
 And then there is the odd romance between Americans and their roads: they do not want anyone other than the government owning them. The specter of investors reaping huge fees by financing assets like the Pennsylvania Turnpike also touches a raw nerve among taxpayers, who already feel they are paying top dollar for the government to maintain roads and bridges. 
 And with good reason: Private investors recoup their money by maximizing revenue -- either making the infrastructure better to allow for more cars, for example, or by raising tolls. (Concession agreements dictate everything from toll increases to the amount of time dead animals can remain on the road before being cleared.) 
 Politicians have often supported the civic outcry: in the spring of 2007, James L. Oberstar of Minnesota, chairman of the House Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, warned that his panel would ''work to undo'' any public-private partnership deals that failed to protect the public interest. 
 And labor unions have been quick to point out that investment funds stand to reap handsome fees from the crisis in infrastructure. ''Our concern is that some sources of financing see this as a quick opportunity to make money,'' Stephen Abrecht, director of the Capital Stewardship Program at the Service Employees International Union, said. 
 But in a world in which governments view infrastructure as a way to manage growth and raise productivity through the efficient movement of goods and people, an eroding economy has forced politicians to take another look. 
 ''There's a huge opportunity that the U.S. public sector is in danger of losing,'' says Markus J. Pressdee, head of infrastructure investment banking at Credit Suisse. ''It thinks there is a boatload of capital and when it is politically convenient it will be able to take advantage of it. But the capital is going into infrastructure assets available today around the world, and not waiting for projects the U.S., the public sector, may sponsor in the future.''
 Traditionally, the federal government played a major role in developing the nation's transportation backbone: Thomas Jefferson built canals and roads in the 1800s, Theodore Roosevelt expanded power generation in the early 1900s. In the 1950s Dwight Eisenhower oversaw the building of the interstate highway system. 
 But since the early 1990s, the United States has had no comprehensive transportation development, and responsibilities were pushed off to states, municipalities and metropolitan planning organizations. ''Look at the physical neglect -- crumbling bridges, the issue of energy security, environmental concerns,'' said Robert Puentes of the Brookings Institution. ''It's more relevant than ever and we have no vision.''
 The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that the United States needs to invest at least $1.6 trillion over the next five years to maintain and expand its infrastructure. Last year, the Federal Highway Administration deemed 72,000 bridges, or more than 12 percent of the country's total, ''structurally deficient.'' But the funds to fix them are shrinking: by the end of this year, the Highway Trust Fund will have a several billion dollar deficit. 
 ''We are facing an infrastructure crisis in this country that threatens our status as an economic superpower, and threatens the health and safety of the people we serve,'' New York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg told Congress this year. In January he joined forces with Mr. Schwarzenegger and Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania to start a nonprofit group to raise awareness about the problem. 
 Some American pension funds see an investment opportunity. ''Our infrastructure is crumbling, from bridges in Minnesota to our airports and freeways,'' said Christopher Ailman, the head of the California State Teachers' Retirement System. His board recently authorized up to about $800 million to invest in infrastructure projects. Nearby, the California Public Employees' Retirement System, with coffers totaling $234 billion, has earmarked $7 billion for infrastructure investments through 2010. The Washington State Investment Board has allocated 5 percent of its fund to such investments. 
 Some foreign pension funds that jumped into the game early have already reaped rewards: The $52 billion Ontario Municipal Employee Retirement System saw a 12.4 percent return last year on a $5 billion infrastructure investment pool, above the benchmark 9.9 percent though down from 14 percent in 2006. 
 ''People are creating a new asset class,'' said Anne Valentine Andrews, head of portfolio strategy at Morgan Stanley Infrastructure. ''You can see and understand the businesses involved -- for example, ships come into the port, unload containers, reload containers and leave,'' she said. ''There's no black box.'' 
 The prospect of steady returns has drawn high-flying investors like Kohlberg Kravis and Morgan Stanley to the table. ''Ten to 20 years from now infrastructure could be larger than real estate,'' said Mark Weisdorf, head of infrastructure investments at JPMorgan. In 2006 and 2007, more than $500 billion worth of commercial real estate deals were done. 
 The pace of recent work is encouraging, says Robert Poole, director of transportation studies at the Reason Foundation, pointing to projects like the high-occupancy toll, or HOT, lanes outside Washington. ''The fact that the private sector raised $1.4 billion for the Beltway project shows that even projects like HOT lanes that are considered high risk can be developed and financed privately and that has huge implications for other large metro areas,'' he said . 
 Yet if the flow of money is fast, the return on these investments can be a waiting game. Washington's HOT lanes project took six years to build after Fluor Enterprises, one of the two private companies financing part of the project, made an unsolicited bid in 2002. The privatization of Chicago's Midway Airport was part of a pilot program adopted by the Federal Aviation Administration in 1996 to allow five domestic airports to be privatized. Twelve years later only one airport has met that goal -- Stewart International Airport in Newburgh, N.Y. -- and it was sold back to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
 For many politicians, privatization also remains a painful process. Mitch Daniels, the governor of Indiana, faced a severe backlash when he collected $3.8 billion for a 75- year lease of the Indiana Toll Road. A popular bumper sticker in Indiana reads ''Keep the toll road, lease Mitch.'' 
 Joe Dear, executive director of the Washington State Investment Board, still wonders how quickly governments will move. ''Will all public agencies think it's worth the extra return private capital will demand?'' he asked. ''That's unclear.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two foreign funds with large portfolios of international investments have gained control of the Chicago Skyway, above. Midway Airport of Chicago, top left, could be taken over by private investors this fall.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mitch Daniels, the governor of Indiana, encountered a severe backlash when he collected $3.8 billion for a 75-year lease of the Indiana Toll Road.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAYMOND/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York City testified before Congress in June about America's deteriorating infrastructure. He helped form a group to raise awareness of the problem.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (89%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (86%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); BONDS (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (64%); BOND MARKETS (62%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); KKR & CO LP (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); KKR (NYSE) (72%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



670 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Poverty Rate Declines In New York, Census Says

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Bucking a national trend, New York City's poverty rate declined in the year that ended July 1, 2007, the Census Bureau reported on Tuesday. New York was also one of only 12 states that recorded a significant decline in the poverty rate.
 Median household income edged up in New York from 2006 to 2007, but barely budged in New Jersey and was even flatter in Connecticut. In the city, income rose the most in the Bronx (5.4 percent), but fell in Staten Island. 
 New York's gap between rich and poor, already the highest of any state, grew from the previous year. The top fifth of earners accounted for more than 53 percent of the income; the bottom fifth took home less than 3 percent. 
 In fact, New York was one of only two states (Missouri was the other) with at least one county (the Bronx, with 27.1 percent, and Brooklyn, with 21.9 percent) among the 10 most populous with the highest poverty rates in the nation and another among the 10 with the lowest (Nassau, with 4.4 percent). 
 Among the most populous counties, Nassau also made the top 10 list in median income; Somerset and Morris Counties, in New Jersey, also made the list. Among the wealthiest municipalities, none in the region made the top 10 list, but Buffalo and Newark were among the big cities with the lowest median incomes. 
 While New York City measured 25th among the nation's largest cities in median household income ($48,631), an analysis by William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, found that the city ranked 15th among whites ($66,429), 11th among blacks ($39,554), 36th among Asians ($51,125) and 44th among Hispanic people ($34,390).
 Connecticut and New Jersey led the nation in income reported by men ($55,394 and $54,846, respectively) and were among only four states in which women reported median income of more than $40,000.
 New York State ranked third, just behind Vermont and California, in the ratio of women's income to men's. New York women made 82.3 percent of what men made, up from 80.2 percent the year before. 
 The census figures came from two separate reports, the American Community Survey and the Current Population Survey. The poverty rates were generally lower than those calculated under a more precise benchmark established last month by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 Joel Berg, executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, pointed out that the number of people classified as poor in the city had increased since Mr. Bloomberg became mayor, but so had the total population.
 The proportion of New York City residents whose income is below the poverty line, still nearly one in five, declined to 18.5 percent from 19.2 percent in the year that ended July 1, 2006. The proportion of poor children was also down, to 27.3 percent, according to the government's definition. 
 In the year that ended July 1, 2007, the share of New Yorkers living at less than half the poverty level -- the poorest of the city's poor -- also declined, to 8.1 percent from 8.5 percent. In another glass-half-full perspective, the proportion of female heads of households who are high school dropouts, not living with a husband and poor dipped below 50 percent.
 ''Nobody quarrels with the proposition that we have too many poor people,'' said Linda I. Gibbs, the deputy mayor for health and human services, but the latest figures amount to a ''fairly significant drop'' in poverty, with even more pronounced declines among blacks (to 20.8 percent from 22.7) and in the Bronx (to 27.1 percent from 29.1). 
 ''The fact that the city's poverty rate continued to decline even as the national rate ticked up,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''suggests that our innovative efforts to move people from welfare to work, improve our schools and create jobs throughout the five boroughs appear to be paying off.''
 Steve Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research and advocacy group, also expressed concern about the impact of an economic slowdown. ''The regional income numbers being so soft in the Northeast and for New York in particular are already worrying,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (93%); POVERTY RATES (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); CENSUS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); WOMEN (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); MAYORS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



671 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Profit Doubles at Wealth Fund in Singapore

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A Singaporean sovereign wealth fund, Temasek Holdings, said profit doubled to a record in its latest fiscal year, but warned that global stagflation -- slowing economic growth and quickening inflation -- might undermine its performance in coming years. 
 Temasek's net profit rose to 18.2 billion Singaporean dollars ($12.8 billion) for the year ending March 31 from 9.1 billion Singaporean dollars a year earlier, it said.
 Temasek's chairman, Suppiah Dhanabalan ,said the global credit crisis will drag on the American, European and Asian economies, with low growth and high inflation threatening to hamper investment returns for even longer.
 ''We are concerned with the emerging risks of stagflation,'' Mr. Dhanabalan said in a statement. ''This presents huge socio-political as well as economic risks in the next three to five years. Opportunities may be limited in such a scenario.''
 The government-run investment company's portfolio grew to 185 billion Singaporean dollars ($131 billion) from 164 billion Singaporean dollars in the year ending March 30, 2007.
 Temasek did not break down its profit, but did say part of it came from its sale of Singaporean electricity generator Tuas Power for 4.2 billion Singaporean dollars ($3.0 billion) in March.
 Total shareholder return by market value was 7 percent in the year, the company said.
 Temasek, which over the past year has bought a 9 percent stake in Merrill Lynch & Company, said it has shifted focus from Asian banks to those in the United States and Britain.
 ''Recently we've concentrated a bit more in the U.S. and U.K. because we see value,'' said Manish Kejriwal, a senior managing director said at a news conference. ''The financial service industry is one we believe in.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



672 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Class of 2008 Matches '07 On the SAT

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

 BODY:
After two years of slight declines, SAT scores held steady this year, according to a report released Tuesday by the College Board, the nonprofit organization that owns the exam. 
 The average scores for the three sections of the exam were identical for the classes of 2007 and 2008: 502 in the critical-reading section, 515 in mathematics, and 494 in writing. 
 Scores for each section range from 200 to 800. The average composite score, on a scale of 600 to 2400, was 1511 for both classes. 
 The number of test takers was more than 1.5 million, an 8 percent increase from five years ago and a 29.5 percent increase from 10 years ago. 
 While girls continued to narrow the gender gap in math, their average score was still 33 points lower than the score for boys, which was 533.
 In critical reading, girls have closed the gap to four points, compared with seven points 10 years ago. The average score in critical reading for boys was 504. 
 Girls outscore boys on the writing test -- the difference this year was 13 points. The average score for girls in writing was 501.
 Traditionally the biggest performance gap is between blacks and whites, and this year the gap on the three sections -- reading, math and writing -- was 303 points. The gap between the wealthiest and poorest students was 356 points on the three tests. And the gap between those whose parents have the least and most education is the largest of all: 387 points.
 ''It happens every year,'' said Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation who believes a student's family background should be considered in college admissions. ''That's an Achilles' heel of the SAT -- kids from higher income families uniformly do better than those from economically disadvantaged backgrounds.''
 Asked about the racial and socioeconomic gaps, College Board officials said they reflected similar gaps in other areas of academic achievement, like grades, as well as in access to education. 
 Announcing the scores at a news conference in New York City, Laurence Bunin, senior vice president for operations and general manager of the SAT program for the College Board, addressed what he called the myth of SAT preparation.
 ''Short-term commercial prep courses don't take the place of rigorous education,'' Mr. Bunin said. Such courses, he said, ''result only in very small score improvements.'' 
 ''Anyone who says otherwise is flying in the face of years of research,'' he added.
 But longtime critics of the SAT disagreed, saying that private test preparation was unfairly distributed. 
 ''The issue with test prep is access,'' said Anthony Carnevale, an educational researcher and professor at Georgetown University and a former official with the Educational Testing Service, which develops and administers the SAT. ''It tends to be overwhelmingly distributed by class and by race.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 27 about the holding steady of SAT scores this year misidentified the two groups that traditionally have had the largest performance gap on the test. They are Asian-Americans and blacks, who were separated by 330 points on three sections of the test this year -- not whites and blacks, whose gap was 303 points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); MATHEMATICS (75%); GENDER EQUALITY (74%); POOR POPULATION (70%); FAMILY (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%)

COMPANY: EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



673 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Retreat on Venture Investing

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
European venture capitalists are investing less money in fewer companies, mirroring a trend seen in financing for American start-ups, according to a report Tuesday by Dow Jones VentureSource. 
 Venture capital firms in Europe invested in 167 young companies in the second quarter, 42 percent fewer than in the period last year. Venture dollars invested declined 35 percent, to $1.3 billion. The quarter was the worst since at least 2000, when VentureSource started tracking European data. 
 ''If there is a prolonged lag in investment and if the liquidity environment continues to be constrictive, then it is concerning for the venture capital industry,'' said Jessica Canning, director of global research for Dow Jones VentureSource.
 The information technology and health care sectors had the biggest drop, while investments in energy companies reached new highs. In Britain, long the leader in European technology innovation, venture investment fell 49 percent last quarter, while Germany vaulted to the head of the list because of a single large investment in a solar technology firm.
 The European slowdown tracks similarly tight conditions in the United States. Investments by United States venture firms fell 19 percent in the second quarter. 
 The difficulty of cashing out of start-ups through the sale of the company or a public stock offering is making venture capitalists more reluctant to invest, according to venture experts. Only two venture-backed technology companies have gone public in the United States this year. 
 Europeans are wary of investing in start-ups until the United States markets stabilize and economic and political uncertainty recedes, said Ram Srinivasan, a venture partner with European firm Wellington Partners. ''That's what's causing a slowdown in funding.'' 
 Mark Tluszcz, co-founder of Mangrove Capital Partners, said the slowdown was a short-term phenomenon. ''As I look for deals and talk to people, I have never seen a time in Europe when there are so many good, young companies being started,'' he said. ''I'm not overly worried.'' 
 He attributed the investment downturn to the fact that many European firms are raising new funds this year, which takes their focus off investing, and that poorly performing firms left from the tech boom have been closing. 
 As entrepreneurs shift their focus from information technology and health care to energy and information services, some investors are cautiously watching from the sidelines, Ms. Canning said. 
 ''There is a lot of innovation in the energy sector right now, and investors are trying to educate themselves on the types of companies out there before investing in everything,'' she said. 
 Early-stage investments accounted for 46 percent of European venture deals in the first half of the year, the highest level since 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (97%); TRENDS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FINANCING ROUNDS (78%); STARTUPS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (68%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (68%)

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



674 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: A Decline In Uninsured Is Reported For 2007

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After climbing steadily for six years, the number of Americans without health insurance dropped by more than a million in 2007, to 45.7 million, the Census Bureau reported Tuesday.
The drop was the result of growth in government-sponsored health insurance programs, officials said, most of them focused on children. At the same time, the number of people covered by private insurance continued to decline.
Experts cautioned that the report, which also included data on income and poverty, did not take into account the economic downturn that began late last year, and therefore it probably presents a rosier picture than the current economic reality. 
According to the report, the nation's median household income rose by 1.3 percent in 2007, to $50,233, the third consecutive annual increase. The nation's poverty rate remained flat at 12.5 percent, the report said.
''The data in this report refer to last year, when everything was different,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal policy group in Washington. ''This year, we're losing jobs on a monthly basis, inflation is running well over 5 percent, and unemployment was last seen at 5.7 percent and rising.''
Health-care experts and advocates for the poor said the report also presented an outdated picture regarding health insurance. The rate of people without health insurance declined to 15.3 percent in 2007, from 15.8 percent a year earlier.
''In 2007, at least 26 states made efforts to expand coverage, but as the economy has turned downward so have state efforts,'' said Diane Rowland, executive vice president of the Kaiser Family Foundation.
Ms. Rowland added that insurance premiums had risen faster than wages and inflation, causing more people to seek insurance from public programs.
The census report, she said, highlights the importance of expanding government health-care plans like the State Children's Health Insurance Program.
In December, President Bush signed legislation that extends federal financing for the program through the end of March 2009. That action came after he vetoed two Congressional attempts to expand the program.
David Johnson, chief of the Housing and Household Economic Statistics Division at the Census Bureau, said that the number of people covered by private insurance declined in 2007, but that the overall number of people who were uninsured went down because of federal and state programs.
''The fall in private insurance was similar to recent years,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''That fall was offset by the rise in government insurance.''
The number of people under 18 without insurance dropped to 11 percent, or 8.1 million, in 2007, from 11.7 percent, or 8.7 million, a year earlier.
Over all, the percentage of people covered by government programs rose to 27.8 percent in 2007 from 27 percent the year before. The percentage and number of people on Medicaid, the government health insurance program for low-income people, rose to 13.2 percent, or 39.6 million, in 2007, up from 12.9 percent, or 38.3 million, in 2006.
Private health insurance fell, covering 67.5 percent of Americans in 2007, down from 67.9 percent in 2006. Employment-based coverage also continued its long decline in 2007, dropping to 59.3 percent from 59.7 percent.
''States such as Massachusetts have also played an important role in stemming the rising tide of uninsured, and thanks to their health reform law they now have one of the lowest uninsured rates,'' said Karen Davis, president of the Commonwealth Fund, a private foundation supporting independent health policy and health care research. ''But 45.7 million uninsured people are far too many, and we need a national solution to this crisis.''
Changes in economic circumstances varied regionally and by race and age.
Douglas J. Besharov, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group, said one of the most noteworthy statistics in the report concerned foreign-born residents.
While households led by someone who was native-born had an increase of 1 percent in median income, the income of households headed by foreign-born persons who are noncitizens dropped 7.3 percent in 2007, according to the report.
Real median income (adjusted for inflation) for black and non-Hispanic white households rose between 2006 and 2007, representing the first measured real increase in annual household income for each group since 1999, according to the report. Real median household income remained statistically unchanged for Asians and Hispanics.
Mr. Besharov said an increase in poverty among Hispanics in the construction trade stemmed largely from the bursting of the housing bubble and the ensuing mortgage crisis.
''With more current data, we would see that the type of the poverty that we see among Latinos has actually already spread to the general population,'' Mr. Besharov said.
Mr. Bernstein, from the Economic Policy Institute, agreed and said that while comparisons to 2006 showed some improvement, in order to understand the difficulties facing middle- and low-income families, it was important to consider these results in the context of the economic expansion since 2000.
For the first time on record, real household income is no higher at the end of an economic expansion than it was when the cycle began, Mr. Bernstein said.
The median income of working-age households -- with household heads under age 65 -- rose insignificantly in 2007, when adjusted for inflation, and was $2,010 below its 2000 level.
''Working households helped bake a bigger economic pie but ended up with thinner slices,'' Mr. Bernstein said.
The report also found other disparities.
Women earned 78 cents for every $1 earned by men. But that is the highest percentage ever reported for women, when compared with men.
Texas led the nation with the highest percentage of uninsured residents, 24.4 percent, while Massachusetts and Hawaii, at 8.3 percent, had the lowest.
Correction: August 28, 2008, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A map on Wednesday with an article about the percentage of Americans without health insurance erroneously highlighted a state in some copies. The label for Massachusetts, the state with the lowest percentage of uninsured people, pointed to Pennsylvania.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The number of people covered by private insurance declined in 2007, but that was offset by government programs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) CHARTS: Slightly Fewer Uninsured: After nearly a decade of rising rates of people without health insurance, that number declined in 2007. Among the uninsured, Hispanics and children living in poverty had the highest rates. States in the North tended to have more insured than those in the South. (Source: Census Bureau) Chart details line graph and map of United States.
 MAP (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENSUS (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); POVERTY RATES (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); VETO (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JARED BERNSTEIN (57%); DAVID S JOHNSON (50%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



675 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: A Jihad Grows in Kashmir

BYLINE: By PANKAJ MISHRA. 
Pankaj Mishra is the author, most recently, of ''Temptations of the West: How to Be Modern in India, Pakistan, Tibet and Beyond.''

DATELINE: New Delhi 

 BODY:
 FOR more than a week now, hundreds of thousands of Muslims have filled the streets of Srinagar, the capital of Indian-ruled Kashmir, shouting ''azadi'' (freedom) and raising the green flag of Islam. These demonstrations, the largest in nearly two decades, remind many of us why in 2000 President Bill Clinton described Kashmir, the Himalayan region claimed by both India and Pakistan, as ''the most dangerous place on earth.'' 
 Mr. Clinton sounded a bit hyperbolic back then. Dangerous, you wanted to ask, to whom? Though more than a decade old, the anti-Indian insurgency in Kashmir, which Pakistan's rogue intelligence agency had infiltrated with jihadi terrorists, was not much known outside South Asia. But then the Clinton administration had found itself compelled to intervene in 1999 when India and Pakistan fought a limited but brutal war near the so-called line of control that divides Indian Kashmir from the Pakistani-held portion of the formerly independent state. Pakistan's withdrawal of its soldiers from high peaks in Indian Kashmir set off the series of destabilizing events that culminated in Pervez Musharraf assuming power in a military coup. 
 After 9/11, Mr. Musharraf quickly became the Bush administration's ally. Seen through the fog of the ''war on terror'' and the Indian government's own cynical propaganda, the problem in Kashmir seemed entirely to do with jihadist terrorists. President Musharraf could even claim credit for fighting extremism by reducing his intelligence service's commitment to jihad in Kashmir -- indeed, he did help bring down the level of violence, which has claimed an estimated 80,000 lives. 
 Since then Pakistan has developed its own troubles with Muslim extremists. Conventional wisdom now has Pakistan down as the most dangerous place on earth. Meanwhile, India is usually tagged as a ''rising superpower'' or ''capitalist success story'' -- cliches so pervasive that they persuaded even so shrewd an observer as Fareed Zakaria to claim in his new book ''The Post-American World'' that India since 1997 has been ''stable, peaceful and prosperous.''
 It is true that India's relations with Pakistan have improved lately. But more than half a million Indian soldiers still pursue a few thousand insurgents in Kashmir. While periodically holding bilateral talks with Pakistan, India has taken for granted those most affected by the so-called Kashmir dispute: the four million Kashmiri Muslims who suffer every day the misery and degradation of a full-fledged military occupation. 
 The Indian government's insistence that peace is spreading in Kashmir is at odds with a report by Human Rights Watch in 2006 that described a steady pattern of arbitrary arrest, torture and extrajudicial execution by Indian security forces -- excesses that make the events at Abu Ghraib seem like a case of high spirits. A survey by Doctors Without Borders in 2005 found that Muslim women in Kashmir, prey to the Indian troops and paramilitaries, suffered some of the most pervasive sexual violence in the world. 
 Over the last two decades, most ordinary Kashmiri Muslims have wavered between active insurrection and sullen rage. They fear, justifiably or not, the possibility of Israeli-style settlements by Hindus; reports two months ago of a government move to grant 92 acres of Kashmiri land to a Hindu religious group are what provoked the younger generation into the public defiance expressed of late.
 As always, the turmoil in Kashmir heartens extremists in both India and Pakistan. India has recently suffered a series of terrorist bombings, allegedly by radicals among its Muslim minority. Hindu nationalists have already formed an economic blockade of the Kashmir Valley -- an attempt to punish seditious Muslims and to gin up votes in next year's general elections. In Pakistan, where weak civilian governments in the past sought to score populist points by stirring up the emotional issue of Kashmir, the intelligence service can only be gratified by another opportunity to synergize its jihads in Kashmir and Afghanistan.
 What of the Kashmiris themselves, who have repeatedly found themselves reduced to pawns in the geopolitical games and domestic politics of their neighbors? In 1989 and '90, when few Kashmiris had heard of Osama bin Laden, hundreds of thousands of Muslims buoyed by popular revolutions in Eastern Europe regularly petitioned the United Nations office in Srinagar, hoping to raise the world's sympathy for their cause. Indian troops responded by firing into many of these largely peaceful demonstrations, killing hundreds of people and provoking many young Kashmiris to take to arms and embrace radical Islam. 
 A new generation of politicized Kashmiris has now risen; the world is again likely to ignore them -- until some of them turn into terrorists with Qaeda links. It is up to the Indian government to reckon honestly with Kashmiri aspirations for a life without constant fear and humiliation. Some first steps are obvious: to severely cut the numbers of troops in Kashmir; to lift the economic blockade on the Kashmir Valley; and to allow Kashmiris to trade freely across the line of control with Pakistan. 
 India's record of pitiless intransigence does not inspire much hope that it will take these necessary steps toward the final and comprehensive resolution of Kashmir's long-disputed status. In fact, an indefinite curfew has already been imposed and Indian troops have again killed dozens of demonstrators. But a brutal suppression of the nonviolent protests will continue to radicalize a new generation of Muslims and engender a fresh cycle of violence, rendering Kashmir even more dangerous -- and not just to South Asia this time.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY RUSSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); TORTURE (73%); COUPS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) KASHMIR (98%); EARTH (88%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (79%) ASIA (98%); INDIA (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



676 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Will Women Find a Home in Denver?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Second-Place Citizens'' (Op-Ed, Aug. 26):
Susan Faludi's list of the ways women are still being left out should energize as well as anger us.
There is a positive gender gap in how women in politics support adequate education, health care for all, protecting the environment, ending the war in Iraq and lowering our ruinous military spending.
We cannot vote for Hillary Rodham Clinton, but we can vote for and actively work for the progressive women running for Congress and state offices around the country. Sayre Sheldon
Arlington, Mass., Aug. 26, 2008 
The writer is emerita president of WAND, Women's Action for New Directions, a national peace organization.
--
To the Editor:
I was and still am a supporter of Hillary Rodham Clinton, but I don't feel as though her almost-successful campaign should drive a wedge between the many groups struggling for equality.
Had it been a white man running against Mrs. Clinton, I might feel more aggrieved and less willing to support the nominee. But the Democratic Party is poised to nominate a candidate who, as a member of a nondominant group, faces a similar inequity to that experienced by women.
There are many second-place citizens in this country. Perhaps if we all banded together rather than fighting over the scraps, we could bring about meaningful change. Louise Rogness
Minneapolis, Aug. 26, 2008
--
To the Editor:
Susan Faludi paints the history of women and politics as a series of victories followed by disappointments when women failed to rally behind female candidates. This, she argues, helps explain the hurt feelings of Hillary Rodham Clinton's supporters.
We ought to draw a different lesson from political history: trying to get one constituency to rally behind one candidate based solely on that person's identity doesn't usually work. Issues and values matter.
Most young feminists I know in the San Francisco Bay area didn't vote for Mrs. Clinton because she opportunistically supported the invasion of Iraq. This is not a trivial matter. If Mrs. Clinton had spoken out against the drive to war, as Barack Obama did, she might now be on the road to the presidency.
Jeremy Adam Smith
San Francisco, Aug. 26, 2008
--
To the Editor:
Recently I received a newsletter pitch to buy back-to-school supplies that started with the words: ''The thought of leaving Mom's home cooking and Dad's math tutoring can be traumatic.''
As in the old days, moms are good for their home skills and dads are for the serious stuff. The newsletter is run by a woman.
Susan Faludi would do well to admit up front that the problem doesn't always lie in sinister forces in society, but in ourselves.
If a women's voting bloc didn't emerge after the first feminist wave, it was because women didn't behave in a way that would bring one about.
And this shouldn't be a surprise -- we don't all have the same opinions.
As always happens in life, some of us got what we wanted and some of us didn't. Those who prefer John McCain to Barack Obama should feel free to vote their conscience, but those who vote out of pique are throwing away their most essential civic duty.
Their whining shouldn't be understood in context -- it should be condemned. Mindy Greenstein
New York, Aug. 26, 2008
--
To the Editor:
I, too, yearn to see a woman in the White House. But I want to support a female presidential candidate who got there on her own, not on her husband's coattails.
Where are those candidates? Susan Faludi explains the problem with depressing statistics. Nancy S. Bishop
Chicago, Aug. 26, 2008
--
To the Editor:
Re ''The Dog That Isn't Barking,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Aug. 26):
The people I feel sorry for are the ones like the man who is voting for Barack Obama as he would for anyone who ''can get us out of this mess.''
Politicians, without exception, are egregious overpromisers. They pretend to have all the answers to every problem faced by mankind. And, of course, their opponents have no good answers.
What nonsense! And people actually fall for it.
Whoever wins will make plenty of blunders, and in the next election there will be a call for ''change'' that a significant part of the electorate will respond to. Plus ca change, plus c'est la meme chose.
All candidates should heed Thomas Jefferson's first Inaugural Address and humbly apologize in advance for the errors they will make and not pretend to omniscience. Ron Holdaway
Draper, Utah, Aug. 26, 2008
--
To the Editor:
Re ''Accentuate the Negative,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Aug. 25):
I disagree that if each candidate tarnishes his opponent's image enough, that will make it possible for voters to see the candidates only through party lines -- a race between a Democrat and a Republican.
I think that the best way to go is for the candidates not to deftly use the low road, but to have a serious, respectful exchange of views and debates about what is best for America, using facts to explain their vision of policies that will improve the lives of all.
The current approach of arguing over who is more American, more patriotic or better to have a beer with demeans the candidates and, more important, the office of president. Sidney Moss
Elkins Park, Pa., Aug. 25, 2008
--
To the Editor:
Re ''Last Call for Change We Can Believe In'' (column, Aug. 24):
Frank Rich is right about the ''last call for change.'' But neither a bloviating, venal cable news and press corps nor a national obsession with the Olympic Games comes close to explaining the passivity and seeming obtuseness of Americans.
We keep hearing and reading about apocalyptic scenarios: a collapsed housing market, a tanking economy, loss of jobs, shrinking wages, inflation, a war in Iraq we can't win and one in Afghanistan we may lose. Where's the outrage?
How is it even possible that John McCain, with his promise of a reprise of the administration of George W. Bush (or worse), is closing in on Barack Obama in the polls?
Are Americans so anesthetized by this crazy celebrity- and consumer-driven culture or mired in such a funk of learned helplessness after years of ineffectual national leadership that they can simply no longer identify their own interests?
To paraphrase: the fault is in our stars and in ourselves.
Pamela Criscione
Bay Shore, N.Y., Aug. 24, 2008
--
To the Editor:
Frank Rich suggests that Senator Barack Obama's campaign needs a more effective story.
It certainly does -- but, as Mr. Rich says, it shouldn't be about Mr. Obama. Instead, it should be about us.
The great American story is how ordinary men and women, given liberty and opportunity, challenged daunting frontiers and turned this huge land into a great nation that is greatly admired.
Today we face new frontiers in ecology, energy, globalization, social justice, science and technology. Instead of soft promises and gauzy policy ideas, Mr. Obama should boldly tell us what each of us can do besides vote.
Only if the next president engages us in the process can we can build ''a city upon a hill.'' It will take courage on his part, and ours, but if American history teaches one lesson above all others, it is this: fortune favors the bold.
James H. Bissland
Bowling Green, Ohio, Aug. 24, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWINGBY MELINDA BECK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WOMEN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); POLITICS (89%); WRITERS (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S ACTION FOR NEW DIRECTIONS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); ADAM SMITH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



677 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Stuck in Georgia

 BODY:
This is where things stand nearly three weeks after Russia invaded Georgia and radically upended ties with the West: Russian troops still occupy key areas, including the port of Poti; Moscow has recognized the independence of Georgia's two breakaway regions; Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili, is still talking tough even though his army is routed and his country shattered. 
 And if that isn't unnerving enough, President Bush has decided to dispatch Vice President Dick Cheney, that master of diplomacy, to the region.
 Awash in oil wealth and giddy after crushing tiny Georgia, Russia's leaders are striking back at real and imagined humiliations. The West's failure to fully marshal its leverage is painful to watch. But Russia also has a lot to lose. Moscow's decision to recognize South Ossetia and Abkhazia will only harden battle lines and sow further regional instability. 
 Recognizing these enclaves could inspire a host of rebellions around and inside Russia: Transdniester from Moldova, Nagorno-Karabakh from Azerbaijan and the oil-rich province of Tatarstan from Russia. If Moscow has forgotten its horrifying war to suppress the Chechens, we have not. 
 We know some in the Kremlin don't care if ties with the West are broken. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the dark hand behind Russia's aggression, blustered this week that Russia would be better off if it didn't join the World Trade Organization.
 While many Russians are cheering him now, we doubt that they will be eager to return to the grim days of Soviet isolation. For all its oil wealth, Russia is still a poorly developed, corrupt and fragile state. It is not in its long-term economic and security interest to divorce from the international mainstream. 
 The Bush administration deserves considerable blame for letting this crisis get so far out of hand. Since the invasion, it has deftly bolstered Georgia, using military transports to deliver humanitarian aid. It gets mixed marks for its response to Russia. The White House eagerly used the crisis to seal a missile defense deal with Poland -- adding to Mr. Putin's list of resentments. It also, more sensibly, suspended military cooperation and a civilian nuclear deal worth billions to Moscow, but left the door open for reviving both. 
 We do not know what Mr. Cheney will say when he visits Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Italy next week. The last thing the world needs now is him inciting more resentments and anxieties. Georgia's president certainly seems to have learned nothing from the last few weeks, telling The Times that he would continue his campaign to reassert Georgian control over South Ossetia and Abkhazia. He seemed to think that Washington would back him up.
 A blustering visit from Mr. Cheney would also make it far easier for the Europeans to avoid doing what they need to do: send their own clear message to Moscow that there will be no business as usual. That does not mean completely isolating Russia. But when the Europeans meet next week, they should agree to put on hold a trade and security deal with Moscow so long as it continues to occupy Georgia and threaten its neighbors. 
 Ties between Russia and the West are now the worst in a generation. It will take toughness and subtlety to ensure they do not lock into a permanent confrontation -- not more bluster from anyone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (78%); DICK CHENEY (76%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (95%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); POLAND (74%); UKRAINE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



678 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: On a National Stage, Paterson Takes an Aggressive Approach

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson arrived here for the Democratic National Convention this week with an extra bounce in his step, emboldened by his success in getting the Legislature to heed his call to cut hundreds of millions of dollars out of the state budget.
 Mr. Paterson has channeled some of that political momentum into a sharper, more direct and more challenging message on a number of issues, from federal economic assistance to the states to the fight to wrest control of the State Senate from the Republicans. 
 The governor delivered a speech to the convention delegates on Tuesday. But like many supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, he was shunted to a marginal time slot -- 5:50 p.m. Eastern time -- and given just four minutes to fill.
 Mr. Paterson and his aides considered the speech, despite its brevity, to be an important moment for the governor, who is trying to raise his national profile. He spent much of the last two days intensely preparing to memorize the speech and made only brief public appearances. Just hours before his speech, when reporters tried to ask him questions in a hotel ballroom, he ducked into a back hallway and left through the kitchen.
 In the speech, he talked about being legally blind and about the need for the government to do more to raise the employment rates of the disabled. He also managed to weave in a few barbs at the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, Senator John McCain.
 ''So the question in this race is which of the candidates will make the change that will restore the promise of America,'' he said. ''Well, let's see, is it John McCain?'' After the crowd at the Pepsi Center roared a resounding ''No!'' he said, ''I'm shocked.''
 While Mr. Paterson spoke, the Pepsi Center was not even half full, and many of the delegates were still arriving. But the New York delegation turned out in force, clapping wildly, repeatedly rising to its feet and chanting, ''David! David!''
 The governor presented his life story and said his journey embodied the promise of America. 
 ''But what has happened to that promise in the last eight years?'' he asked. ''Over one million Americans have lost their homes since last summer; 463,000 people have lost their jobs this year alone. The inflation rate is at a 17-year high.'' 
 Still, Mr. Paterson's remarks were less barbed than comments he made on Sunday about Mr. McCain's labor policies during an address at a reception held for him by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union.
 ''His record on labor is so poor that it defies description,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''So I won't even beg to describe it. It's just horrible.''
 And speaking at a breakfast for the California delegation on Tuesday, Mr. Paterson chastised the Bush administration for what he said were failures in just about every area of the president's policy portfolio, including the economy, energy policy, Medicaid and the environment.
 ''We right now are facing tumultuous deficits because the federal government is not giving back to the states the same in taxes that we pay,'' he said. ''Where is our federal government when our states need it?'' 
 The partisan language was especially striking from the easygoing governor. 
 Just last week, he struck a playful and cooperative tone when he stood side by side with legislative leaders of both parties and announced a budget deal.
 Mr. Paterson on Tuesday dismissed any suggestion that he had escalated his rhetoric. 
 ''This is just me,'' he said. ''I just let everybody here know who the governor is.''
 Mr. Paterson was already landing jabs even before the convention began on Monday night. His first target: the Republican-controlled State Senate, which he had been careful not to criticize too harshly when Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the former majority leader and confidant of the governor's, was in office. 
 At reception here on Sunday night honoring Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the Assembly, Mr. Paterson went out of his way to praise the speaker for his levelheadedness during the recent budget negotiations and then proceeded to knock the Senate for being fiscally imprudent. 
 ''The only thing standing in the way,'' Mr. Paterson shouted, sounding as if he were on the campaign trail, ''was the New York State Senate.'' He then called to the Senate minority leader, Malcolm A. Smith, ''Do you hear me, Senator Malcolm Smith? Next year we don't want to have this problem again.''
 Earlier that evening, as Mr. Paterson pushed his way through a sea of people in the ballroom at the Sheraton hotel where Mr. Silver's reception was being held, he greeted Mr. Smith with a bear hug and exclaimed, ''Mr. Majority Leader!''
 Mr. Paterson said after his remarks on Sunday that while he did not intend to lead the charge against Republicans this fall, ''As a Democrat, when I can be helpful, I will be.'' 
 Still, Mr. Paterson said he understood that there were limits to how helpful and publicly involved he could be because, he pointed out, the governor has to work closely with the Senate majority leader, Republican or Democrat, after the election.
 Amid Mr. Paterson's pointed remarks, there have been moments of levity, too. At the California delegation breakfast, after he delivered a line about the need to ''restore the promise of America'' and just a handful of people clapped, he quipped, ''And we have three people who want to restore the promise of America.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson addressing the Democratic convention on Tuesday. In Denver this week, he has taken jabs at John McCain and New York Republicans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); DISMISSALS (65%); BLINDNESS (65%); RETAILERS (60%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (52%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



679 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: In Her Own Words

 BODY:
Tuesday night at the Democratic National Convention in Denver, as recorded by CQ Transcriptions. A complete transcript: nytimes.com/politics.
 '' I will always remember the single mom who had adopted two kids with autism. She didn't have any health insurance, and she discovered she had cancer. But she greeted me with her bald head painted with my name on it and asked me to fight for health care for her and her children. 
 I will always remember the young man in a Marine Corps T-shirt who waited months for medical care. And he said to me: 'Take care of my buddies; a lot of them are still over there. And then will you please take care of me?'
 And I will always remember the young boy who told me his mom worked for the minimum wage, that her employer had cut her hours. He said he just didn't know what his family was going to do. ...
 Were you in this campaign just for me? Or were you in it for that young marine and others like him? Were you in it for that mom struggling with cancer while raising her kids? Were you in it for that young boy and his mom surviving on the minimum wage? Were you in it for all the people in this country who feel invisible?
 We need leaders once again who can tap into that special blend of American confidence and optimism that has enabled generations before us to meet our toughest challenges. Leaders who can help us show ourselves and the world that with our ingenuity, creativity and innovative spirit, there are no limits to what is possible in America.
 Now this will not be easy. Progress never is. But it will be impossible if we don't fight to put a Democrat back in the White House.
 We need to elect Barack Obama because we need a president who understands that America can't compete in the global economy by padding the pockets of energy speculators while ignoring the workers whose jobs have been shipped overseas. ...
 When Barack Obama is in the White House, he'll revitalize our economy, defend the working people of America and meet the global challenges of our times. Democrats know how to do this. As I recall, we did it before with President Clinton and the Democrats. And if we do our part, we'll do it again with President Obama and the Democrats.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CANCER (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); AUTISM (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



680 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: High Anxiety in the Mile High City

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
DENVER
I've been to a lot of conventions, and there's always something gratifyingly weird that happens.
Dan Quayle acting like a Dancing Hamster. Teresa Heinz Kerry reprising Blanche DuBois. Dick Morris getting nabbed triangulating between a hooker and toes.
But this Democratic convention has a vibe so weird and jittery, so at odds with the early thrilling, fairy dust feel of the Obama revolution, that I had to consult Mike Murphy, the peppery Republican strategist and former McCain guru. 
''What is that feeling in the air?'' I asked him.
''Submerged hate,'' he promptly replied.
There were a lot of bitter Clinton associates, fund-raisers and supporters wandering the halls, spewing vindictiveness, complaining of slights, scheming about Hillary's roll call and plotting trouble, with some in the Clinton coterie dissing Obama by planning early departures, before the nominee even speaks.
At a press conference with New York reporters on Monday, Hillary looked as if she were straining at the bit to announce her 2012 exploratory committee.
''Remember, 18 million people voted for me, 18 million people, give or take, voted for Barack,'' she said, while making a faux pro-Obama point. She keeps acting as if her delegates are out of her control, when she's been privately egging on people to keep her dream alive as long as possible, no matter what the cost to Obama.
Hillary also said she was happy about the choice of Joe Biden because he added ''intensity'' to the ticket. Ouch.
She added insult to injury by coming out Tuesday night looking great in a blazing orange pantsuit and teaching the precocious pup Obama something about intensity and message. She thanked her ''sisterhood of the traveling pantsuits,'' and slyly noted that Obama would enact her health care plan rather than his.
She offered the electrifying fight that the limpid Obama has not -- setting off paranoia among some Democrats that they had chosen the wrong nominee or that Obama had chosen the wrong running mate. ''It makes perfect sense that George Bush and John McCain will be together in the Twin Cities because these days they are awfully hard to tell apart,'' she said.
Afterward, some of her supporters began crying, as they were interviewed by reporters, saying that her speech had proved that she would make a better president than Obama. And, as one said, she would only give him ''two months'' to prove himself.
Ed Rendell, the governor of Pennsylvania, compared Obama to the passive-aggressive Adlai Stevenson and told The Washington Post that Obama gives six-minute answers and ''is not exactly the easiest guy in the world to identify with.''
At a meeting of the Democratic women's caucus Tuesday, 74-year-old Carol Anderson of Vancouver, Wash., a former Hillary volunteer, stood in the back of the room in a Hillary T-shirt and hat signed by Hillary and ''Nobama'' button and booed every time any of the women speakers mentioned Obama's name.
She's voting for McCain and had nothing nice to say about the Obamas. What about the kids, I asked. ''Adorable,'' she agreed. Well, I said, Michelle raised them.
''I think her mother does,'' Anderson shot back, adding: ''I wonder if Michelle would give the Queen one of her little knuckle punches?''
Bill's pals said he was still gnawing at his many grievances against the younger version of himself he has to praise Wednesday night; the latest one being that the Obama folks, like all winners, wanted control over Bill's speech, so that he did not give a paean to himself and his economic record, which is what he wanted to do, because he was incensed that Obama said a couple critical things about his administration during a heated campaign.
Finally, Obama had to give in on Monday and say he would allow the ex-president to do exactly as he likes, which is what he usually does anyhow.
Obama's pacification of Bill made his supporters depressed and anxious that he was going to be a weaker candidate than they had hoped and fearful that, as in Obama's favorite movie, ''The Godfather,'' every time Democrats try to get away, the Clintons pull them back in.
And Democrats have begun internalizing the criticisms of Hillary and John McCain about Obama's rock-star prowess, worrying that the Invesco Field extravaganza Thursday, with Bruce Springsteen and Bon Jovi, will just add to the celebrity cachet that Democrats have somehow been shamed into seeing as a negative.
So that added to the weird mood at the convention, with some Democrats nitpicking Obama's appearance, after Michelle's knock-out speech and the fabulously cute girls, with a reassuring white family in a town he couldn't remember at one point. They wondered why he wasn't wearing a tie, fearing he looked too young, and second-guessed Michelle's green dress, wondering if it clashed with the blue stage, and fretted that there wasn't a speaker Monday night attacking McCain and yelling about gas prices.
''I'm telling you, man,'' said one top Democrat, ''it's something about our party, the shtetl mentality.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); FUNDRAISING (69%); WOMEN (67%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); ED RENDELL (57%); JOE BIDEN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



681 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 473 words

 BODY:
TRANSMISSION LIMITS Dreams about renewable energy are bumping up against the reality of a power grid that cannot handle the new demands. 
 CELEBRITY SPORTS STARS The star athletes who competed in the Beijing Olympics, like Serena Williams and Dwyane Wade, left, are making their bids to cash in on China's boom in sports marketing and sponsorship deals. [C1.] 
 HOUSING WOES Two new housing reports signaled that the sharpest corrections in home prices and sales might be over. [C1.]
 The real estate industry is bracing for a likely wave of defaults on apartment buildings in Harlem and the Bronx. [C6.]
 PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS The strategy to privately finance infrastructure projects is gaining steam as federal, state and local governments struggle under mounting deficits. [C1.]
 OIL DEAL The state-run ONGC agreed to buy Imperial Energy of Britain for $2.6 billion in a deal that would help India meet surging fuel demand from its burgeoning economy. [C3.]
 DOWNTURN IN GERMANY German business and consumer confidence fell more than economists had forecast, heightening concerns that the country might be slipping into a recession. [C4.]
 MUNICIPAL DEFAULT Commissioners in Jefferson County, Ala., expect to default on a $3 billion sewer debt and will likely authorize attorneys to begin bankruptcy proceedings. [C4.]
 BANKING CRISIS The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said the number of bad loans at banks rose in the second quarter to its highest level in 15 years. [C1.]
 RECORD PROFIT Rio Tinto, fighting a $142 billion offer from BHP Billiton, reported a first-half profit that beat analysts' estimates on increased aluminum sales and iron ore prices. [C3.]
 THE FLAVOR OF CITY LIFE Absolut is introducing limited editions of flavored vodkas that celebrate spirited cities. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C3.]
 RATE INCREASE POSSIBLE Policy makers at the Federal Reserve hinted that they will raise their benchmark interest rate to combat rising inflation. [C4.]
 GREEN BRAGGING RIGHTS As more developers, architects and tenants seek green certification for their properties, they are turning to ''sustainability consultants'' for help. [C6.]
 BANKS SUFFER Bank of Montreal, Canada's fourth-biggest bank, said third-quarter net income fell 21 percent, and Bank of Nova Scotia, the No. 3 lender, said profit dropped 1.9 percent. [C7.]
 BRATZ LAWSUIT A jury in California awarded Mattel $100 million in damages in the copyright infringement case against MGA Entertainment over the Bratz doll franchise. [C7.]
 FEWER INVESTMENTS European venture capitalists pulled back on financing start-up companies in the second quarter, according to Dow Jones VentureSource. [C10.]
 SELL-OFF IN RUSSIA The war of words between Washington and Moscow over the conflict in Georgia spooked investors, who fled Russian stock markets. [A12.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); INFLATION (76%); RECESSION (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (72%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (71%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); BANK FAILURES (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); MINES & MINING (69%); DAMAGES (66%); CITIES (66%); CITY LIFE (66%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (65%); LITIGATION (65%); JURY TRIALS (64%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (63%); VENTURE CAPITAL (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); COPYRIGHT (62%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (62%); STARTUPS (60%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (83%); BANK OF MONTREAL (83%); BHP BILLITON PLC (82%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (67%); RIO TINTO GROUP (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (51%)

TICKER: BNS (TSX) (83%); BNS (NYSE) (83%); BMO (TSX) (83%); BMO (NYSE) (83%); BLT (LSE) (82%); BIBLT (JSE) (82%); BBL (NYSE) (82%); RIOS (BRU) (54%); RIO (NYSE) (54%); RIO (LSE) (54%); RIO (ASX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (82%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (82%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (82%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (82%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (82%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (67%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (67%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (54%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (54%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: SERENA WILLIAMS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (52%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%) GERMANY (92%); CHINA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (84%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



682 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: California County's Resolve Against Drilling Fades

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
Santa Barbara County became a symbol of the national environmental movement's passionate opposition to offshore oil drilling when an oil spill devastated its coastline in 1969. On Tuesday, it became a symbol of the changing national mood as its board of supervisors debated whether to welcome new wells along California's shores.
 The supervisors voted 3 to 2 on Tuesday to end the county's opposition to offshore drilling, although the vote will have no practical impact on state or federal policies. 
 But the speed with which opinions have changed in Santa Barbara County as gasoline prices have climbed has been astonishing. The vote there reinforces, at the local level, a shift evident in national polls and in the delicate willingness of Democratic leaders like Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive presidential nominee, and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, to open the door to limited coastal drilling.
 Three weeks ago, the Public Policy Institute of California released a poll showing that 51 percent of Californians now approve of offshore drilling, a 10-point increase in a single year. ''I don't think any of us expected to see the day when there'd be more than 50 percent support for oil drilling,'' said Mark Baldassare, the institute's research director.
 Despite the liberal, environmentally conscious aura that has surrounded the wealthy coastal communities of Santa Barbara and Montecito, the county as a whole, which also includes the fast-growing, less-wealthy inland communities of Santa Ynez and Santa Maria, has been less easily pigeonholed politically.
 ''It's a bipolar situation,'' said Antonio Rossman, an environmental lawyer in San Francisco. ''You've got some of the strongest environmentalists in the country, yet this is where Ronald Reagan had his ranch,'' Mr. Rossman said, adding, ''The Santa Barbara County Board of Supervisors has always split as close as anyone can on issues of preservation versus development.''
 The swing vote on the five-member board, Supervisor Brooks Firestone, said in a telephone interview on Tuesday that he was ending his opposition because offshore drilling was no longer a significant threat to the coastal environment. 
 ''I did a lot of research that brought me to realize that 1969 can't happen again,'' Mr. Firestone said. He joined two supervisors who are longtime proponents of drilling in voting in favor of writing a letter asking Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, to rethink his support for the Congressional moratorium on offshore drilling.
 Michael Chrisman, California's secretary for resources, made it clear in a telephone interview that this was not going to happen. Asked about the changes in the national and local moods, Mr. Chrisman said: ''It's obvious what's going on. The presidential election's going on.''
 He said the issue was driven by the ''high price of gasoline and need of country to become more energy independent.'' 
 ''It's a healthy debate,'' he added. ''But from our perspective, our position hasn't changed. The governor has been very clear in his opposition to increased drilling off the coast of California.'' More than 80 people signed up to speak at the supervisors' meeting Tuesday, and Mr. Firestone said the testimony was often emotional.
 ''People want wind power, solar power, less dependence on foreign oil,'' he said. ''Fair enough. We all want that.'' But he said he expected economic pressure to find new oil supplies to reach a breaking point eventually and force widespread leasing of tracts off the coast. ''Better to do it gradually, safely and intelligently,'' he said, ''than wait for the inevitable conclusion.''
 Tupper Hall, a spokesman for the Western States Petroleum Association, said in a telephone interview that the debate in Santa Barbara was emblematic of a national mood swing prompted in part by a desire to be less dependent on Middle Eastern oil. ''This national -- and now local -- dialogue that is now taking place we believe is very healthy,'' Mr. Hall said. ''It is an acknowledgment, I believe, that the public understands that supply really does matter.''
 Finding safe and appropriate ways to increase the supply, he added, is ''one of the ways to address instability, volatility in the global markets.''
 But Warner Chabot, a vice president of the Ocean Conservancy, a national environmental group, said offshore drilling would not decrease oil prices.
 ''Exposing coastal areas and beaches to oil drills and environmental degradation for a few weeks' supply isn't a national energy policy,'' Mr. Chabot said.
 President Bush put the issue at the center of the national debate in June when he proposed rescinding an executive order against offshore drilling originally imposed by his father. He ended that moratorium in July and called on Congress to lift the ban it has imposed for 27 years.
 Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, was in Santa Barbara just weeks earlier to outline his energy policy -- one that included a new willingness to encourage drilling on the outer continental shelf.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After cleaning oil from its beaches in 1969, Santa Barbara County stood against offshore drilling. That stand is shifting.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); OIL SPILLS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); NANCY PELOSI (56%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



683 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: China's Promise Excites the Sports Stars

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
At times during the Olympics, athletes like Dwyane Wade and Serena Williams seemed to be working as hard off the court as on they were on the court. 
 Mr. Wade, a star player for the Miami Heat, and Ms. Williams, the tennis sensation, courted the Chinese media, chatted online with Chinese sports fans, and strategized with their agents about how to tap into the rising Chinese market. 
 ''It's something we talked about in anticipation of his coming here for the Olympics,'' said Henry Thomas, Mr. Wade's agent. ''We talked about what we could do to raise his profile here.'' Mr. Thomas was in town, wining and dining sponsors.
 While the world is tallying the benefits, political and economic, that China will reap from hosting nearly perfect Olympic Games, the star athletes who competed here are making their bids to cash in on this country's boom in sports marketing and sponsorship deals. 
 The business has grown into a $15-billion-a-year industry, up from about $1 billion a year in 1994, according to Zou Marketing, a sports marketing consulting firm in Shanghai.
 ''It's like leading mice to cheese,'' said Tom Doctoroff, the chief executive for Greater China at J. Walter Thompson, the advertising agency, referring to athletes and the Chinese market. ''The question is, do these celebrities have what it takes to make it in China?'' 
 More than most countries, sports marketing experts say, Chinese fans will back only athletes with personality and a long winning streak, meaning many top athletes may fall flat here.
 ''You have to define the sport and be a master of the universe,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''It's extremely imperial. Anyone who can't be the emperor of basketball or the queen of tennis won't make it.''
 Mr. Wade and Ms. Williams think they rate. In interviews over the past two weeks, the two said they and their agents had come to realize that promoting themselves in China could give them added cachet with global corporations seeking to tap into the Chinese market as this country's middle class grows. There could be new endorsement deals, special appearances in China and huge fan clubs in a nation that is wild about global athletes.
 ''We've been treated like rock stars here,'' Mr. Wade said of the United States basketball team during a break in practice during the Olympics. He emphasized that he was in Beijing to win the gold for Team U.S.A., but he did say: ''You never know what kind of opportunities there could be here. This is an unbelievable market.''
 The Olympics were an eye-opener to some foreign athletes visiting China. Hundreds of millions of Chinese tuned into the games on television, and Kobe Bryant, the popular Los Angeles Lakers player, was greeted everywhere he went in Beijing to chants of ''Kobe! Kobe! Kobe!'' 
 Sales of his National Basketball Association jersey -- and those of eight other N.B.A. stars, including Mr. Wade -- top even those of China's own basketball giant, Yao Ming. China has already adopted Western-style marketing strategies that use professional athletes to sell everything from soft drinks and sneakers to cars and mobile phones. Mr. Yao, the center for the Houston Rockets, and the hurdler Liu Xiang, China's two most famous athletes, have multimillion-dollar endorsement deals with corporations like Coca-Cola, McDonald's and Nike.
 Now the Chinese government is moving to commercialize the sports industry. It has opened world-class stadiums in Beijing and Shanghai in recent years and is making new television deals that are starting to bring global sports events and programming to China. 
 Web sites devoted to sports are some of the most popular on the Internet in China. There are Chinese-language editions of Sports Illustrated and N.B.A. Inside Stuff magazine, which already has a circulation of 600,000.
 A World Cup game drew a Chinese television audience of more than 60 million people in 2006. And the professional golf and tennis circuits now regularly bring Tiger Woods and Roger Federer, both of whom have huge followings here, to China. 
 The N.B.A. began playing preseason basketball games in China in 2004 and has just formed a venture called N.B.A. China, with a $253 million investment from five investors, including the ESPN division of the Walt Disney Company. 
 Among the companies that have signed up to be marketing partners with the N.B.A. in China are Coca-Cola, DHL, Gatorade, McDonald's and a handful of Chinese companies like Lenovo, Haier and Tsingtao, which is now the official beer partner of the N.B.A. in China.
 Major League Baseball and the National Football League are making strong pushes to do their own marketing blitzes in China.
 To demonstrate how big the Chinese market can be, more than 300 million people tuned into an Olympic table tennis match this month and about 175 million people watched the United States basketball team defeat China on the opening day of Olympic competition.
 That some professional athletes and their agents would try to capitalize on that kind of enthusiasm for sports and sports marketing is not surprising.
 Sensing an opportunity, Ms. Williams and Mr. Wade made their own efforts to court public opinion here during the Games. Mr. Wade did a live chat on Tom.com, a popular Chinese Web site. And after winning a gold medal in women's tennis doubles with her sister Venus, Ms. Williams gave one of her first interviews to China Daily, the country's English-language newspaper.
 ''Gosh, I don't know what I'll do; I just love China,'' Ms. Williams said just hours after winning her gold medal. ''I have deals with Nike, Wilson Sporting Goods, H.P., and a clothing line. I would love to sell it in Beijing.''
 Ms. Williams already has huge stature in China, having won eight Grand Slam tennis titles.
 Mr. Thomas, Mr. Wade's agent, says it just makes sense to raise his client's profile in China, which is becoming a global power in every sphere of commerce. Mr. Wade, who at 26 has already won an N.B.A. championship and been named most valuable player of the N.B.A. finals, has endorsement deals with Converse, a unit of Nike; Gatorade; and T-Mobile.
 But China could be an even bigger opportunity, Mr. Thomas said.
 More and more global athletes are already coming to China to promote their sports leagues, their sneaker companies and, of course, themselves. David Beckham has starred in ads here for Pepsi and Adidas. In 2006, Ronaldinho, the Brazilian soccer player, was named a brand ambassador for Lenovo, the Chinese computer maker.
 Mr. Bryant and LeBron James, another big N.B.A. star, make regular trips here. Nike and Adidas, the world's two biggest sneaker brands, are aggressively expanding retail outlets in China and bringing over some of their biggest athletic stars.
 This year, Nike even produced a reality television program, ''Kobe's Disciples,'' that was broadcast on China's biggest television network. It featured 24 Chinese youths living and training in the United States and getting tips from Mr. Bryant.
 ''The reason Kobe is as big as he is here is not an accident,'' Charlie Denson, Nike's brand president, said in an interview in Beijing. ''Kobe realized some years ago that the China market is a great place to be. And he's been here consistently, every year, for five or six years.''
 The efforts seem to be paying off for Mr. Bryant, who just turned 30 and was also a member of the gold-medal-winning American basketball team. Even though Chinese fans chanted wildly for Yao Ming and the Chinese team in the game against the Americans, Mr. Bryant seemed to be the hometown favorite.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kobe Bryant was surrounded by fans and photographers Sunday at the men's basketball final of the Beijing Olympics.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KERIM OKTEN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat drove to the basket as the United States men's basketball team played Greece in the Olympics on Aug. 14. His agent was also in China, meeting with sponsors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DUSAN VRANIC/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Venus Williams, left, and her sister Serena at the awards ceremony for women's doubles tennis on Aug. 17 in Beijing. Serena Williams later spoke to a Chinese paper about her marketing deals.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEHROUZ MEHRI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (72%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (62%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: JWT (67%)

ORGANIZATION: MIAMI HEAT (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%)

PERSON: SERENA WILLIAMS (90%); VENUS WILLIAMS (78%); KOBE BRYANT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



684 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: For Obama, a Challenge to Clarify His Message and Define Himself

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Modern presidential conventions are mostly political circus, but for Senator Barack Obama, the question is whether the theatrics and drama of this one are overwhelming one of his most important tasks here: connecting with the economic anxiety gripping voters and convincing them that he has concrete and achievable solutions. 
 Democrats here are talking about the ailing economy, selling Mr. Obama's policy prescriptions, offering biting indictments of Republican policies and trying to tie Senator John McCain irrevocably to President Bush. 
 Mr. Obama is broadcasting a new advertisement mocking Mr. McCain's admitted lack of background in economics. But at a convention where the attention has been focused on political superstars new and old, and the narratives of personality and conflict -- urged along by the McCain campaign -- it is not clear that the message is getting through.
 The challenge for Mr. Obama in establishing his identity as the best economic steward for a hurting nation was evident with Tuesday night's highlight: the speech by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. Mrs. Clinton, who nearly won the Democratic nomination with a late appeal to middle-class anxieties, used her formal concession to restate those campaign themes and to make a rousing case for reversing eight years of conservative economic policies -- though with Mr. Obama as president.
 But it is not clear whether her substantive case would break through the story line about how well she would do in easing tensions with Mr. Obama and unifying the party. And just like on Monday night, when an emotional appearance by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and a speech by Michelle Obama dominated the coverage, the roster of speakers seeking to promote Mr. Obama as the answer to the country's economic ills and Mr. McCain as worse than a third Bush term was barely seen on television.
 That blurring of the intended focus on Mr. Obama's economic message captures a continuing struggle that Mr. Obama is having: With four nights of free prime-time television coverage, he is trying to define himself personally for voters, and to win over holdout Clinton supporters, while at the same time seeking to define himself substantively. Failing at either could cost him the election.
 Mrs. Clinton's success during their rivalry in casting herself as the working-class candidate nearly cost Mr. Obama the nomination. Mr. Obama, with what campaign aides say is a sharper message, is now trying to assume that mantle.
 But things will not get any easier for him on Wednesday night, when the focus is on former President Bill Clinton, and just what he will say to sell voters on the younger man whose success so clearly frustrated him during the oft-bitter nomination race. Mr. Obama gets the final word on Thursday, with a nomination speech that aides say will deal heavily with defining the economic stakes.
 The Obama campaign pushed back hard against the televised comment on Monday night by James Carville, architect of Mr. Clinton's 1992 campaign and its mantra, ''It's the economy, stupid,'' that the Obama campaign was squandering its time in the spotlight. After Monday's emotional program devoted to the ailing Mr. Kennedy and Ms. Obama, Mr. Carville said on CNN, ''If this party has a message, it's done a hell of a job of hiding it tonight, I promise you that.''
 Bill Burton, a spokesman for Mr. Obama, dismissed that remark as ''a case of premature speculation.''
 ''There are several things we're accomplishing this week at the convention,'' Mr. Burton said. ''Last night we were successful in making sure the American people knew where Senator Obama was coming from. And throughout the rest of it we're going to make sure that folks know exactly what the choice is between Obama and McCain.''
 Mrs. Clinton intended her speech to help define the economic stakes for the middle class on Nov. 4, and to make those issues central to her good-loser pitch on Mr. Obama's behalf.
 But along with half the convention nights dominated by the two Clintons' speeches, a major distraction has been the news media's attention to the lingering hard-feelings of some Clinton delegates here. 
 That has frustrated not only Obama advisers trying to amplify their man's message, but even some on the Clinton side. Mrs. Clinton's longtime senior adviser, Ann Lewis, said on Tuesday that she had been visiting delegations both from states that Mrs. Clinton won and those that Mr. Obama won, and had been reassured by the party unity among the loyalists of the former rivals. 
 Yet, when Ms. Lewis meets with reporters, she said, all the questions are about ''the war going on.''
 Then there are the intensifying advertising wars between the Obama and McCain forces, separate from the convention, that have allowed Mr. McCain to undercut the Democrat's claims to leadership on the economy or anything else. In particular, the McCain campaign has hammered on the theme of Mr. Obama as a celebrity, all fame and little substance. ''Celebrities like to spend their millions,'' one advertisement says. ''Barack Obama is no different. Only it's your money he wants to spend.''
 The Obama side has countered with a new advertisement of its own, lampooning Mr. McCain's remark confessing that he does not much understand economics. To the tune of ''Wonderful Word (Don't Know Much)'', a singer intones: 
 Don't know much about industry.
 Really can't explain the price of gas,
 or what has happened to the middle class.
 A photo of Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush embracing fills the screen. 
 Obama advisers say the economic message turned sharper in the past weeks; it continued on Tuesday as Mr. Obama campaigned in Kansas City, Mo., ahead of his arrival here. A third-generation aviation-industry worker introduced him as a ''true working-man's president.'' Mr. Obama, in turn, called Mr. McCain ''out of touch,'' and again raised Mr. McCain's recent inability to say how many residences the McCains have.
 Mr. Obama's more muscular economic message only underscores some Democrats' private criticism that Mr. Obama did not do so as soon as he had beaten Mrs. Clinton.
 Late or not, ''I think it's getting through,'' said Jason Furman, an economic adviser to Mr. Obama, ''and will get through even more'' for the campaign's final two months.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DENNIS J. KUCINICH: Representative of Ohio (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MARK WARNER: Former governor of Virginia (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 BRIAN SCHWEITZER: Governor of Montana(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CELEBRITIES (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); INDICTMENTS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); BRIAN SCHWEITZER (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MARK WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



685 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Borders Narrows Its Quarterly Loss

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Borders Group, the bookseller, posted a narrower-than-expected quarterly loss Tuesday, helped by tighter inventory and lower costs, sending its shares up nearly 14 percent.
 ''Right now the book business has been affected by the slowing of the economy, like other things have as well,'' the chief executive, George Jones said. ''However it's still a very strong business.'' 
 Its larger rival, Barnes & Noble, blamed a troubled economy when it cut its full-year sales forecast last week.
 Borders, which put itself up for sale in March, said its second-quarter loss from continuing operations slimmed to $11.3 million, or 19 cents a share, from $18.1 million, or 31 cents per share.
 Excluding adjustments, Borders lost 18 cents a share, outperforming analysts' average expectations for a loss of 29 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.
 Total sales from continuing operations fell 7 percent, to $749.2 million.
 Sales at established Borders domestic superstores dropped nearly 9 percent from a year ago, when the final book in the Harry Potter series was released.
 Excluding the impact of Harry Potter, Borders said domestic superstore same-store sales were down about 5 percent.
 In the Waldenbooks Specialty Retail segment, comparable-store sales fell 7 percent. Excluding Harry Potter, same-store sales were down 1.4 percent.
 Inventory from continuing operations decreased at cost by $181.7 million in the quarter.
 Debt, including prior-year debt from discontinued operations, was down 37 percent at $465.7 million at the end of the second quarter.
 After suffering from liquidity problems earlier this year, Borders has been controlling costs by cutting jobs and inventory at its stores, among other measures.
 It cut music inventory by more than 30 percent to deal with decreasing sales of compact discs.
 The company, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., expects its online sales, which it resumed in May and started marketing in July, will do a little better than break even this year.
 ''We've been really, really pleased with the customers' response to the site,'' Mr. Jones said.
 Shares in Borders rose to $6.10 in late electronic trading from a New York Stock Exchange close of $5.36.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (91%); BOOKSTORES (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (57%)

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (98%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (98%)

PERSON: GEORGE L JONES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



686 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Weapons of Mass Destruction And Other Imaginative Acts

BYLINE: By MARK DANNER. 
Mark Danner, the author most recently of ''The Secret Way to War: The Downing Street Memo and the Iraq War's Buried History,'' will publish ''Stripping Bare the Body: Politics Violence War'' next spring.

 BODY:
THE WAY OF THE WORLD 
 A Story of Truth and Hope in an Age of Extremism 
 By Ron Suskind 
 415 pages. Harper. $27.95. 
 Scandal is our growth industry. In our era, revelation of wrongdoing leads not to definitive investigation, punishment and expiation but to ... more scandal. Permanent scandal. Frozen scandal. The weapons of mass destruction that turn out not to exist. The torture of detainees who remain forever detained. The firing of prosecutors, which is forever investigated. These and other frozen scandals metastasize, ramify, self-replicate, clogging the cable news shows and the blogosphere and the bookstores. Unpurged and perpetually unresolved, scandal transcends political reality to become commercial fact. 
 Unfortunately, and somewhat misleadingly, ''The Way of the World'' by Ron Suskind comes smartly dressed in the garb of the genre: an embargoed release, strategic leaks to whet journalistic appetites, author interviews across the cable networks. And the book delivers, serving up two interlinked revelations that add materially to the W.M.D. megascandal: first, that more than three months before initiating the Iraq war President Bush and his highest officials received information, via the British, from Iraq's intelligence chief, Tahir Habbush, that Saddam Hussein had destroyed all his weapons of mass destruction years before -- information that the officials ''buried'' but that turned out to be true. And second, that after paying off Mr. Habbush to the tune of $5 million and resettling him in Jordan, White House officials used him to run a scam on the American people, drafting a letter over his name, backdated to the summer of 2001, in which Mr. Habbush informs Hussein that he has been training Mohammed Atta, soon to be the leader of the 9/11 attacks.
 This forged letter, meant to establish beyond doubt a link between Saddam Hussein and 9/11, was leaked in December 2003 to an Iraqi politician and longtime C.I.A. asset -- Ayad Allawi, soon to be named the first interim prime minister of Iraq -- and thence made its way, via a prominent British journalist, to the front page of The Daily Telegraph, and from there into the American press, receiving prominent treatment in various places, including ''Meet the Press'' and an Op-Ed column by William Safire in The New York Times. Perhaps, as you nursed your coffee that day, you saw the program or read the piece? According to Mr. Suskind, that was your government at work.
 Despite White House and C.I.A. denials, Mr. Suskind's case, if not definitive, seems strong; and had Hussein not been captured the very day the article appeared in The Telegraph, the C.I.A.'s handiwork might have had a significant political effect. The letter also helpfully mentioned that Iraqi intelligence and ''a small team from the Al Qaeda organization'' arranged for a shipment from Niger to reach Iraq, presumably a reference to the elusive yellowcake that President Bush referred to in the notorious 16 words in his State of the Union address in January 2003. If you are going to use your intelligence service to fill the politically damaging holes in the case for war, you might as well fill all the holes.
 Now using the C.I.A. to manipulate domestic politics in this way is -- if one might venture to use a quaint word -- illegal, and thus, as Mr. Suskind points out, ''the sort of thing generally taken up in impeachment hearings.'' In the age of frozen scandal, with a handful of months left of George W. Bush in the White House, such hearings are unlikely, though perhaps it is not utopian to hope that Congress, controlled now by the opposition party, might use its subpoena power to look into the matter. And though this particular scandal combines in an irresistible way all the darker aspects of the present administration -- secrecy, self-dealing and the kind of solipsistic arrogance best embodied in Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld's vow that, in the occupation of Iraq, ''We will impose our reality on them'' -- one can't help regretting a bit that its shadow, self-projected as it is, has loomed so large over what is a complex, ambitious, provocative, risky and often maddening book.
 In a crowded, highly talented field, Mr. Suskind bids fair to claim the crown as the most perceptive, incisive, dogged chronicler of the inner workings of the Bush administration. To him we owe many of the signature expressions of the era, among them ''Mayberry Machiavellis'' (from his essential and prescient 2003 Esquire piece on Karl Rove and John DiIulio, first chief of President Bush's ''faith-based initiative'') and ''reality-based community'' (from an October 2004 article for The New York Times Magazine). A Pulitzer Prize-winning former reporter for The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Suskind is at heart a storyteller whose chosen yarn, told and retold, is the ''education of the innocent,'' whether that wide-eyed rube is Mr. DiIulio; or Paul O'Neill, Mr. Bush's first treasury secretary, whose rude and ill-fated coming of age is impeccably detailed in ''The Price of Loyalty''; or the bevy of national security professionals whose desperate preoccupations as they improvise a ''war on terror'' are vividly described in ''The One Percent Doctrine.'' 
 Behind the highly promoted scandals in ''The Way of the World'' lies a complex web of intersecting stories, the plotlines of a varied traveling company of actors whose doings Mr. Suskind chronicles with meticulous care: an Energy Department intelligence official charged with preventing ''the markets'' from supplying terrorist groups with enough highly enriched uranium to make a bomb; an Afghan teenager brought to Denver as an exchange student; an Illinois lawyer determined to save her client, a Libyan -- perhaps a terrorist, perhaps an unlucky baker -- who seems to be slowly dying in his Guantanamo Bay cell; a former prime minister of Pakistan, immersed in a doomed crusade to retake her office; a Libyan-born Islamist cleric -- and police informant -- expelled from his perch at a ''radical'' London mosque; a Pakistani financial analyst rousted by Secret Service agents for making the mistake of adjusting the volume on his iPod at just the wrong moment. These narratives and others perform, in Mr. Suskind's hands, an intricate arabesque and manage, to a rather remarkable degree, to show us, in this age of terror, ''the true way of the world.'' 
 Amid the intense and vivid storytelling here, Mr. Suskind takes many risks and not all succeed; the book will be criticized for sentimentality and a kind of wide-eyed, communal optimism that are easy to ridicule. Still, the reporting is solid and often sublime: one doesn't have to believe entirely that Benazir Bhutto, twice Pakistan's prime minister, twice deposed, was ''evolving, in public'' and ''creating a powerful counterpoint to bin Laden's saga of violence and salvation'' to find Mr. Suskind's account of her last campaign chilling and powerful. 
 And the revelation of an effort to steal and sell fissile material in Georgia's now celebrated ''breakaway region'' of South Ossetia -- one of ''three dozen significant attempts'' to traffic in such material, mostly uranium, since 1994 -- is only the most terrifying of a dozen or more newsworthy disclosures in this book, all of them reflecting darkly on the obsessive secrecy, political ruthlessness, ideological single-mindedness and breathtaking incompetence of the Bush administration.
 In a time less sated with scandal, many of these might have made headlines on their own account. Alas, scandal -- subject, like everything else, to inflation -- has become a highly overpriced commodity. At bottom, Mr. Suskind is intent on posing deeper questions: about transparency and the ''dying cult'' of secrecy; about ''defining human progress together''; about the ''lack of imagination about what the nation might yet become.'' These are hard, frustrating, complicated matters to which he offers only tentative answers, some of them vague, sentimental, even naive. But he is brave enough to try to discover, through relentless reporting and a sustained and admirable act of sympathy, the right questions. In this age of scandal, we must be grateful to him for that.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Then-Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld and President Bush in March 2003, shortly after the start of the Iraq war.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)
 Ron Suskind (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY CRAMPTON)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); SCANDALS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); BOOKSTORES (70%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (87%); GEORGE W BUSH (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

TITLE: Way of the World, The (Book)>; Way of the World, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008



687 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PRACTICALLY SPEAKING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Restaurateur's Holiday

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
During a summer trip to Rome a few years ago, Joe Rombi, a longtime California restaurateur, noticed that his European counterparts were also on vacation, but they were taking off for weeks on end. And he thought, ''I've got to do that, just not in August.''
To the envy of American restaurant owners who are gearing up for the post-Labor Day push, now is the time that European proprietors are preparing to reopen after extended holidays. American owners, meanwhile, are just trying to catch a second wind after a taxing summer.
More than half of American owners said they would take at least a week off this summer, even in the face of a slower economy and rising prices, according to a semiannual survey conducted by American Express. 
But a month or more? That is largely out of the question, says John F. Foley, the restaurant adviser for Allbusiness.com. The Europeans, he scoffed, ''don't have a Cheesecake Factory down the street from them.''
To Mr. Foley's great consternation, his friend, the owner of Joe Rombi's La Mia Cucina in Pacific Grove, Calif., does as the Romans do: in his case, he closes his restaurant for the entire month of January. ''It's just a great recharge,'' Mr. Rombi said. ''I recommend it highly, especially for most restaurants that are open six days a week.''
The seventh day is not really a day off, Mr. Rombi added, because owners are probably still working, as he was during an interview on his day off.
How to take a vacation, when to take it and for how long are questions every small business owner asks, but for restaurateurs it is especially critical because customers are passionate about what they eat, Mr. Foley said. They consider a favorite restaurant an extension of their home. ''They don't like it when they come home and they can't get into their house,'' he said.
Mr. Rombi has closed his main restaurant for 13 years now, and does the same with a second restaurant, La Piccola Casa. All the regulars know this. ''The name of the restaurant is Joe Rombi's,'' he said. ''People come to see me.''
Which is exactly why, he said, the restaurant is packed with regulars the first week of February. The second week, it is full of golf fans in town for the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am tournament. February is a big month for both his restaurants, he added.
When you are away, Mr. Foley said, ''you don't want your customers to go to another place.'' Besides, he said, ''when you close for a week, you lose seven turns of customers.'' For a month, it is at least 28 turns. ''That's the ultimate bad service.'' But there must be something to Mr. Rombi's claims about reputation, because Mr. Foley keeps coming back.
To be sure, most restaurant owners do not have the option of closing for a month. A year ago, Toast on Market in Louisville, Ky., experimented with one week off during the week that students returned to school, aiming to get vacations for the owners -- Amy Wepf and her sister, Lisa Wepf -- and the chef, George Morris.
Each put in about 70 hours a week, Amy Wepf said, adding that any revenue lost was offset by saving what would have been paid to find replacements.
''We're glad we did it,'' she said, and business was stronger when they returned than in the week before they shut down. The time away is great for the owners and workers, she said. ''We came back really jazzed up and energetic.''
This year, Toast closed again for a week, but this time it was because the next-door neighbor was undergoing a renovation, Amy Wepf said, and the owners did not want customers to endure the dust and the noise.
Even though the restaurant put up signs, changed the message on the answering machine and called to alert local hotels that often send convention tourists, they still received a few worried calls because the front of the restaurant ''was bubble-wrapped'' and customers thought it had closed permanently, Ms. Wepf said.
That is a risk Mr. Foley said restaurant owners should not take. ''You give the perception that you're really out of business.'' Some owners close temporarily as they are trying to raise capital, he said, and never reopen.
For those restaurants that remain going concerns, ''the meter's still going'' when the doors are closed, Alice Bredin, a small business adviser for American Express Open, said. The electricity is on, rent is due and suppliers must be paid. ''For some small businesses, it is logistically almost impossible to get away.''
First-year owners can probably forget about it because they ''work, work and work some more,'' Ms. Bredin said. In the second year, she said, owners probably try to squeeze in a few long weekends, rather than take a week off.
But after two years, owners reach a breaking point. If they can, she said, they will find someone to fill their shoes. If not, she added, the best thing for them to do is to communicate early and often to employees and customers about when they will be away. The costs are fixed, she added, and can be budgeted for.
Stress often plays a role in the timing of a vacation, according to the American Express survey, which found that 34 percent of owners take a break when they are stressed or have had enough. ''For all of us and especially entrepreneurs,'' Ms. Bredin said, ''a vacation, even if downscaled, is a necessity, not a luxury; especially when times are stressful.''
The American Express survey of 627 small business owners and managers of companies with fewer than 100 employees found that older owners, those 60 and older, were most likely to have summer vacation plans -- 72 percent, compared with 55 percent of their younger counterparts.
Business size is also a factor, the survey found: 73 percent of small businesses with 50 to 99 employees had vacation plans for a week or more, compared with 59 percent of companies with fewer than 50 employees.
Mr. Rombi acknowledged that he was in a better position than some to close for a month. He has a fair lease, he said, does not have big bills in January, has light inventory after the holidays and is in a location that does seasonal business. Even so, ''when I reopen, my checkbook has negative brackets,'' Mr. Rombi said. ''A month's a long time. Most do it for two weeks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lisa Wepf, left, and her sister, Amy, owners of Toast on Market in Louisville, Ky., with the restaurant's chef, George Morris.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID R. LUTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Joe Rombi and his wife, Laurie, at La Mia Cucina in Pacific Grove, Calif. They close the restaurant for the month of January.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); US LABOR DAY (78%); INTERVIEWS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (69%); AMATEUR SPORTS (63%); GOLF (60%); PRICE INCREASES (54%); SPORTS FANS (50%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



688 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Durable Goods Orders Defy Pessimism

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Orders for durable goods, a report that is considered an indicator of future manufacturing activity, topped analysts' predictions in July and recorded its third consecutive monthly increase. 
 The increase was led by a sharp rise in transportation equipment, the Commerce Department said Wednesday.
 ''It was just one of those nice, unexpected summer surprises,'' said Joseph Brusuelas, chief economist at Merk Mutual Funds. ''It's been a bad, bad year for the economy, and any good news is welcome.'' 
 The dollar amount of the durable goods orders -- products like cars, computers and aircraft, items that have a life expectancy of at least three years -- increased 1.3 percent in July, matching a revised increase of 1.3 percent for June. Analysts had predicted that orders would remain flat in July, citing a recent Institute for Supply Management survey that showed overall manufacturing to be stagnating, as well as concerns that a slowdown in consumer spending would begin to hit the sector.
 The surprise jump in durable goods helped push the markets higher on Wednesday. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 90 points, or 0.79 percent, after being up more than 100 points for much of the afternoon session. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 0.8 percent and the Nasdaq index rose 0.87 percent.
 Stripping out transportation, durable goods orders grew 0.7 percent, better than the slight decline many economists had expected. Shipments of overall manufactured durable goods rose 2.5 percent in July after a 0.9 increase in June.
 Manufacturing orders for and shipments of long-lasting products are volatile from month to month. Analysts said that the unexpectedly high figure this month was probably the result of exports rather than domestic consumer demand, which is still hurting from the tight credit market. 
 ''The world economy is slowing down, but let's face it, shipment of goods ordered months ago are still benefiting of what until recently has been a strong world economy,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist of the PNC Financial Services Group. 
 While Japan and Europe have been showing signs of a slowdown, China and other developing markets may continue to support durable goods exports from the United States in the coming months, analysts said.
 ''China is decelerating from a 9.8 percent rate of growth to about a 7 percent rate of growth,'' Mr. Brusuelas said. ''That's still pretty robust.'' He expects to see sustained Chinese demand for metal production, he said, as the country begins to recover and rebuild from the earthquake in May in Sichuan province. 
 Primary metal and fabricated metal product orders were up 2.2 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively, in July.
 Nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft, a measure of business investment, rose 2.6 percent in July after a 1.3 percent increase in June. Mr. Hoffman said the investment tax credit and the accelerated depreciation allowance might have pushed businesses to make more investments before the year's end.
 Nonmilitary aircraft and parts orders, which are extremely volatile given the high price tag on any individual purchase, were up 28 percent. Motor vehicles and parts were also up 1.2 percent, even though automobile sales have been dismal in the last few months.
 ''It's odd if you look at vehicles and parts, which have seen gains in both orders and production, given the weak underlying sales number,'' said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics. ''That's one area that isn't sustainable.'' 
 Mr. Ryding said the way the data is reported for motor vehicles is somewhat misleading because a car shipped to a dealership is considered both an order and a shipment even if the car remains on the lot unsold. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The surprising increase in orders for products like household appliances was seen as a function of exports instead of a rise in domestic demand. In the United States, credit remains tight.(PHOTOGRAPH BY M. SPENCER GREEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Unexpected Rise: Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar graph for May-July. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); DURABLE GOODS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (78%); PRIMARY METAL MFG (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (66%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



689 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 448 words

 BODY:
EASING UP ON RULES The Justice Department will impose new guidelines that will no longer allow federal prosecutors to indict a company for paying an employee's legal fees. 
 RISK DISCLOSURE The New York attorney general said Xcel Energy, a leading builder of coal-burning power plants, had agreed to disclose to investors the risks of global warming. [C1.]
 CLEANING SERVICE Software companies pay PC makers hundreds of millions of dollars to install their products on computers, and the Geek Squad, the technical support division of Best Buy, turns around and offers to remove it for customers. [C1.]
 DIVERGING POLICIES Rising food prices mean many farmers around the world are reaping record profits, and Brazil and Argentina are responding to the windfall in opposite ways. [C1.]
 CHANGING THE GAME The D90 from Nikon is the first single-lens reflex camera that can record high-definition video. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 PRICING CHANGES Amgen said that it would no longer offer discounts and rebates to oncology clinics for their use of Aranesp, its flagship anemia drug. [C1.]
 SUITOR REJECTED Taylor Nelson Sofres, the British market researcher, refused to drop its opposition to a takeover bid from the WPP Group, despite the loss of another bidder. [C2.]
 DEFYING PESSIMISM The Commerce Department reported a surprise jump in orders for durable goods in July, sending the markets higher. [C2.]
 EXECUTIVE SHAKE-UP Fannie Mae, the largest buyer and backer of home mortgages, said its chief financial officer and two other top executives were leaving the company. [C2.]
 ON HOLIDAY Restaurant owners find it difficult to take time off, but most say it is important to find time to take a vacation. [C3.]
 UNIVERSAL ACCOUNTING Federal regulators proposed a plan to allow public companies to begin using international accounting standards for reporting financial results in two years. [C3.]
 EXPLORING STRATEGIES Chrysler said it was weighing options for its iconic Dodge Viper sports car, which could include a sale of the nameplate. [C3.]
 RICOH EXPANDS Ikon Office Solutions, which sells office equipment, has agreed to a $1.62 billion buyout offer from one of its suppliers, Ricoh of Japan. [C4.]
 GRAYING MARKET Companies are successfully marketing their products to older people by designing new gadgets especially for them. Basics. [C5.]
 BOND TRANSFER MBIA, the bond insurer, agreed to take nearly $200 billion of municipal bonds from its wobbly competitor, the FGIC Corporation. [C7.]
 POSTSEASON APPEAL Baseball's playoff advertising push gets under way with a $65 million campaign that features Fox and TBS personalities blogging about the sport. Advertising. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); MATURE MARKET (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POWER PLANTS (72%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); COMPUTER MAKERS (71%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); BASEBALL (70%); FOOD PRICES (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ONCOLOGY (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); SPORTS CARS (61%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (60%); PRICE CHANGES (55%); ANEMIA (52%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); FGIC CORP (62%); XCEL ENERGY INC (58%); AMGEN INC (56%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (55%); WPP PLC (55%); RICOH CO LTD (52%); IKON OFFICE SOLUTIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: XEL (NYSE) (58%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (56%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (55%); WPP (LSE) (55%); RICOP (PAR) (52%); RICO (LSE) (52%); 7752 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (62%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5043 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (52%); NAICS811212 COMPUTER & OFFICE MACHINE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS423420 OFFICE EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); SIC7629 ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC5044 OFFICE EQUIPMENT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



690 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Computers, Scrubbed Clean

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Before they ship PCs to retailers like Best Buy, computer makers load them up with lots of free software. For $30, Best Buy will get rid of it for you. 
 That simple cleanup service is threatening the precarious economics of the personal computer industry.
 Software companies pay hundreds of millions of dollars to PC makers like Hewlett-Packard to install their photo tools, financial programs and other products, usually with some tie-in to a paid service or upgrade. With margins growing thinner than most laptops, this critical revenue can make the difference between profit and loss for the computer makers, industry analysts say.
 If the programs are removed, the software makers gain no value out of the $2 to $10 they typically pay H. P. and others to install them on each PC -- and PC makers miss out on their cut from revenue-sharing deals. But Best Buy, the nation's largest electronics retailer, tells computer buyers that the preinstalled software, also known as bloatware, can clutter their machines and slow them down. 
 ''You'd be surprised how often consumers tell us to get rid of it,'' said Robert Stephens, the head of Geek Squad, the technical support division of Best Buy that removes the software. He declined to say how many people were paying for the service, but said that ''it's going to increase in popularity.''
 The demand for the service, along with similar offers from Circuit City and other chains, reflects an outpouring of consumer frustration with the way that a brand-new computer can feel as if it is full of digital infomercials -- even if those come-ons knock a few dollars off the PC's price tag. The Web has dozens of do-it-yourself guides to removing such software, which, as one tutorial puts it, ''turns your computer into a messy battleground.'' Mr. Stephens said the personal computer makers should be worried about the demand for less cluttered computers.
 ''No matter what manufacturers want, we'll give consumers what they want,'' he said. But he added that he believed computer makers would find different ways to profit: ''While they may be scared by these trends, they'll be O.K.''
 As it turns out, H. P., the world's largest technology company, is already working on a fundamental change in the way it packages software on its new computers, and thus how its business model works.
 Stephen DeWitt, who oversees H. P.'s personal computer business in the Americas, said that starting next year the company's new computers would point users to a Web site where they can buy and download games, productivity software and other programs. Revenue from the site will be split in some fashion among H. P., a retailer like Best Buy and the makers of the software.
 Mr. DeWitt said the change would cut how much software comes preloaded.
 Mr. DeWitt said this was happening because consumers were demanding something different, but also because the technology was now in place to allow downloading of software on demand.
 For now, he said, the benefits to consumers of the free software far outweigh whatever small slowdown it might cause. And he said Best Buy's cleanup service was not pressuring H. P. to move to a new model. ''There's no tension coming from Best Buy on this -- none,'' he said. 
 But in Best Buy stores in Northern California, there is clear evidence of the different agendas of Best Buy and the computer makers. The stores display two H. P. computers, identical except that one desktop is cluttered with software icons from eBay, Quicken, AOL, Yahoo and others, while the other is entirely cleaned up. Best Buy workers use the display to promote the company's $30 ''optimization'' service.
 Industry analysts said that the planned change in H. P.'s approach could well reflect Best Buy's growing influence -- and its ability to exact new concessions from computer makers. They said Best Buy has benefited from two key changes: the declining fortunes of competing retailers like CompUSA and some large regional chains, and the addition to its shelves in the last year of computers made by Dell and Apple.
 Bob Kaufman, a spokesman for Dell, said, ''This is an evolving story and Dell is evaluating how it can best deliver software to its customers.'' Best Buy's offer to remove software began in 2006. But recently the toll its policies are taking has heightened considerably, analysts and industry executives say. 
 ''Best Buy's sway is definitely growing,'' said Matt Fassler, an industry analyst who covers Best Buy for Goldman Sachs. He said the company had good relationships with computer makers, and, while it wouldn't seek to harm those relationships, ''if they have a strong competitive position, it is incumbent on them to use it.'' 
 Mr. Fassler estimates Best Buy will have sales of $44 billion this year. Of that, $1.5 billion to $2 billion will be from the sale of H. P. computers, analysts estimated. 
 One important question is whether the new model being developed by H. P. will be as profitable as the current one. Mr. DeWitt said he expected it to be more profitable. But A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., an industry analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said the change could imperil H. P.'s profitability, in part because there is no guarantee that consumers will buy software offered through H. P. instead of another site.
 As software buying moves online, Mr. Sacconaghi asked, ''what makes a consumer go to HP.com over Google?'' He also says the challenge for personal computer makers is that they are losing control of what shows up on PC screens -- a form of real estate that they have used to sell billboard advertising for software.
 ''They no longer have that real estate advantage,'' he said. ''There's a substantial profit pool at risk.''
 And there can be little profit to begin with, analysts said.
 The profit margin on many personal computers can be 5 percent or lower, depending on the model. The margins are slim in part because of intense competition that has driven down prices. In some cases, the computers are profitable only because their makers earn $30 or more for each computer for preinstalling the software, according to Shaw Wu, an industry analyst with American Technology Research.
 And J. P. Gownder, an analyst at Forrester Research, said, ''For the average PC, that could be the entire margin.'' Without the preloaded software, Mr. Gownder said, ''it could put them in the red. That's why they've become so addicted to it.''
 Mr. Stephens of Geek Squad says he agrees with H. P. that the future is in allowing computer buyers to choose and download what they want. But he said he believed Best Buy, not H. P., was in the best position to help people choose what works for them because, he argued, the in-store technicians are in closest contact with them.
 ''Geek Squad agents have one thing over Apple and Microsoft engineers. We spend most of the day talking to people,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Stephens, head of Geek Squad, said of removing preinstalled software, ''We'll give consumers what they want.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER PLEDGER/THE DAILY TELEGRAPH)
 Eric Fortuna, right, at a Best Buy in Illinois. For $30, his Geek Squad will eliminate programs installed by computer makers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM BOYLE/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C4) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER MAKERS (93%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); INFOMERCIALS (64%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



691 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Red Sox at Center of Stimulus Plan

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

DATELINE: SARASOTA, Fla. 

 BODY:
Officials trying to prop up the sagging economy here are convinced they have found a remedy: annexing a piece of Red Sox Nation. 
 Boston's on-the-field success in recent years has made the organization a darling among fans and marketers. And the emerging power of the Red Sox name, fueled by frenetic fans who travel widely to see their team play, has created a level of interest from Sarasota sometimes seen from cities hoping to land the Olympics. Officials here are trying with all their civic might to poach the club's spring training operation from Fort Myers, where it has been since 1993. 
 There have been friendly calls from local politicians to team executives, a pledge to build a replica of Boston's Fenway Park, and discussions about both a public land purchase and an increase in the tourism tax to pay for the stadium and improvements to an existing minor league complex. A grass-roots organization called ''Citizens for Sox'' has even formed to help in the effort.
 The officials here say the team would attract more tourists and businesses than any other major league franchise. They hope the relocation would help lift real estate prices, increase the number of flights to and from Boston and boost construction. 
 ''This is not just about baseball,'' said Joe Barbetta, a Sarasota County commissioner. ''It is about the Red Sox brand.'' 
 Kelly Kirschner, the commissioner from the city of Sarasota who has teamed with Barbetta to try to attract the team, added from across the table, ''We have never seen 4,000 people get together about anything, let alone a baseball team.''
 The Red Sox are among a handful of teams with the flexibility to leave their spring training cities because they hold opt-out clauses in their current deals. The club's existing agreement with Lee County allows the team to leave Fort Myers after 2009 spring training if it pays $1 million. After that, the amount decreases by $100,000 a year until the agreement expires in 2019.
 On Tuesday, Sarasota County voted to buy 1.2 acres in downtown Sarasota for $4.8 million. The plan calls for a 10,000-seat stadium next to the site of Payne Park, where the Red Sox held spring training from 1933 to 1942 and from 1946 to 1958. Officials in Sarasota have been in discussions with the Red Sox for several weeks, and they expect to make their formal offer by mid-September. 
 Sarasota finds itself searching for a team because the Cincinnati Reds decided last year to leave for Goodyear, Ariz. To find a new team, officials began studying which clubs could relocate and soon fell in love with the idea of landing the Red Sox.
 ''Certainly it's because their star has never been brighter,'' said John Yarbrough, the official in Fort Myers who is in charge of the effort to keep the team. ''There is no team, except for maybe the Yankees, that has the following they have right now. It's a sign of the slow economy that more municipalities haven't come out pushing for them.''
 The Red Sox have done what seemed nearly impossible five years ago. In 2004, they rallied from three games down to the Yankees in the American League Championship Series and went on to win the World Series for the first time since 1918. Then they won another title last season.
 Sarasota, which was home to a Class A affiliate of the Red Sox from 1994 to 2004, appears to be the only city beyond Fort Myers interested in taking them, although Disney officials are also making a quiet push. Disney World is already home to the Atlanta Braves during spring training at its Wide World of Sports complex in Orlando. The Red Sox' chief operating officer, Mike Dee, toured the center in July. 
 But the interest from Sarasota appears to be the strongest, and its officials argue that the benefits of attracting the team would exceed the economic activity associated with a schedule of roughly 17 spring training games. Many of Sarasota County's approximately 350,000 residents, like those elsewhere on Florida's Gulf Coast, are retirees from the Midwest. 
 But the officials say the Red Sox could attract more people from the Northeast. ''If the Red Sox come, it would bring in direct flights from Boston, and it would attract people from New York to New Hampshire,'' Barbetta said, referring to his hope that those people might decide to relocate to or retire in Sarasota. 
 A consultant's study for Sarasota showed that the Red Sox would generate $46.5 million a year in economic activity, nearly double the amount associated with the Reds. And in the 2007 edition of ''Turnkey Team Brand Index,'' a study that ranks the brand strength of 122 teams in Major League Baseball, the N.F.L., the N.B.A. and the N.H.L., the Red Sox finished fifth in fan loyalty among all major franchises and first in baseball. (The New York Times Company owns 17 percent of New England Sports Ventures, the parent company of the Red Sox.)
 ''We asked fans how much a team is a part of their daily routine, to what degree do they support a team, how often do they watch them on TV and how much they go to games,'' said Len Perna, the president of Turnkey Sports and Entertainment. ''There is no doubt that their performance on the field over the past few years has had an impact on their brand, but there are other teams that have won and don't have the same glow.''
 He added: ''What makes them different is that they have done everything else right. This group of owners has made Fenway Park part of the team's future and not pushed for a new stadium. That endeared them to many Bostonians, and the loyalty has extended from there.''
 But Wayne Genthner, a charter boat captain who lives in Sarasota, is wary of the display of affection by public officials.
 ''They're in love with them all right -- you know how that can deceive you,'' he said. 
 Genthner spoke out this week at a public meeting regarding the purchase of land for the stadium.
 ''It's corporate welfare for professional baseball, and they have basically said you can eat out of the public trough,'' he said in a telephone interview Wednesday. ''We need help developing tourism from September through December. That is when we really need the help. People don't vacation down here, and that is where we need the help. I want them to spend on tourism, but they need to be smart about it.''
 For their part, officials 80 miles down the coast in Fort Myers say they want to keep the Red Sox. But they do not seem to be nearly as active about their interest as their counterparts in Sarasota. Fort Myers is also home to the Minnesota Twins during spring training, and city officials say the local economy is built around both teams.
 Yarbrough said he had told the Red Sox that Fort Myers would make a counter-offer after Sarasota made its proposal.
 ''March is the lifeblood of our economy and our community,'' Yarbrough said. ''Could we survive without two teams? It would hurt our year-round economy.'' 
 Dee said the Red Sox had noticed a clear difference in approaches from the cities. 
 ''The outpouring of discussion and interest from Sarasota has been tremendous -- it has been comprehensive in nature, and everyone has been very aggressive and supportive,'' he said. ''In Fort Myers, for whatever reason, they decided to wait it out.''
 He added, ''But they are confident and convinced that Sarasota is going to be unable to do this, and they are sort of gambling on this.''
 What will Sarasota do if the Red Sox shun the offer?
 ''We would pursue another team,'' Barbetta said. ''And we won't give up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Red Sox Manager Joe McCarthy watching Ted Williams hit in Sarasota, Fla., where the team held spring training for several years until 1958. At far left, a 1957 program. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE, ASSOCIATED PRESS
 SARASOTA HISTORY CENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); COUNTIES (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); RELOCATIONS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (98%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



692 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Green Roofs Offer More Than Color for the Skyline

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The thousands of recently planted green and purple shrublike sedum lining the roof of Con Edison's training center in Long Island City look a bit out of place in the shadow of Manhattan's skyline.
 But the tiny absorbent leaves and modest but hardy roots of the sedum -- typically found in desert climates -- are at the center of a growing effort to reduce greenhouse gases, rainwater runoff and electricity demand in New York. 
 This month, Gov. David A. Paterson approved tax abatements to developers and building owners who install green roofs, or a layer of vegetation and rock that absorbs rainwater, insulates buildings and extends the lives of roofs. Sedum, which soaks up water quickly and releases it slowly, is an ideal plant for the job. 
 Europe has had green roofs for decades, and cities like Chicago and Seattle have added many of them in recent years. But there are fewer in New York because of the cost of installing them compared with the benefits, which can be hard to quantify. The new one-year abatements, though, can cut as much as $100,000 a year from a building's taxes, and are expected to turn what has largely been a hidden luxury into a standard feature of a little-seen part of the city's landscape. 
 ''This is just the beginning,'' said Kari Elwell Katzander, a partner in Mingo Design, a landscape design firm in Manhattan that works on green roofs. ''It's not just about the green roof. This transcends into various ways to make buildings more green.''
 There are few accurate reckonings of how much of the 944 million square feet of rooftops across New York City -- 11.5 percent of the total building area -- has gone green, or how much more could be cultivated. But clearly there is plenty of space available. Just in Long Island City, there are 667 acres of empty, flat roofs suitable for vegetation, according to Balmori Associates, an urban design company. That is the equivalent of 80 percent of Central Park.
 The best locations for green roofs are buildings with large, flat tops well exposed to the sun. That is why many of the city's green roofs are in industrial neighborhoods in the Bronx and Queens. 
 One of the largest installations was completed in 2005 at Silvercup Studios in Long Island City, where parts of the HBO series ''The Sopranos'' were filmed. About 1,500 plants, in 20 different species of red, yellow and green, cover 35,000 square feet. 
 Because of high labor and transportation prices in New York, green roofs can cost as much as $30 a square foot to install in the city, up to three times more than in other places. While the environmental benefits of green roofs are real, builders have had a hard time justifying the extra cost when it is unclear how it will affect their bottom line.
 Green roofs, for instance, absorb as much as 70 percent of the rain that might otherwise overwhelm the city's sewage system during heavy downfalls and run directly in the East River, the Hudson River and New York Harbor. By diverting the runoff, the city could prevent millions of gallons of polluted water from reaching waterways.
 But while runoff is a big problem for the city, it is a negligible one for individual building owners. Lawmakers and environmental activists, though, say that the new financial credits -- worth $4.50 per square foot of vegetation -- should prompt building owners to install green roofs that, over time, will help the city grapple with the growing problem of runoff.
 ''Essentially, cities are going to benefit more than any individuals will benefit because it will save with infrastructure costs,'' said Diana Balmori of Balmori Associates, which helped install the green roof at Silvercup Studios. ''It's a modest help, what individuals receive, but it changes the way we think about infrastructure.''
 When sunshine hits a blacktop roof, it heats the building beneath it as well as the area nearby. When it hits plants on a roof, in contrast, the plants not only absorb the sunshine, but cool the air when the water in their leaves evaporates.
 Temperatures on buildings with green roofs are up to 30 percent lower during the daytime in the summer than they are on those with conventional roofs, which means that tenants on the floors below do not have to run their air-conditioning as much.
 The savings can vary, though, depending on how well the windows are insulated and other variables.
 And the average life of a typical roof can be doubled when a layer of plants rests on top. Con Ed's 10,000-square-foot green roof, which was installed in July and is the first at one of its buildings, is more advanced than most projects. The company spent $200,000 to install 1,350 trays filled with 21,000 plants, including 15 varieties of sedum. The plants, which were cultivated at a nursery in Connecticut, sit in a mixture of volcanic rock, sandstone and other light stone capable of absorbing water.
 The bottoms of the trays look like egg cartons; they allow a small amount of water to pool beneath the plants. The trays can easily be moved to provide access to the roof if there are leaks that have to be plugged. Con Ed chose sedum not only because it can absorb rainwater quickly, but also because it is not indigenous to New York, making it unlikely to attract potential pests. The plants also require very little maintenance.
 Con Ed has teamed up with Columbia University's Center for Climate Systems Research to evaluate the benefits, using rooftop sensors to measure the temperature, wind and water runoff. Con Edison said it hoped to use the findings to encourage customers to install green roofs themselves. 
 David Westman, the resource conservation coordinator at Con Edison, said, ''It's not only the right thing to do, but it can make economic sense.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The roof of a Con Edison training center in Long Island City is covered with sedum, an absorbent plant typically found in deserts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN BUILDING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); TAX LAW (70%); ENERGY DEMAND (56%); GREENHOUSE GASES (56%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



693 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Boom Times for Job Site Thieves

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
SUE WENTZ and her husband, Eugene, saved for five years, living in a modest home in a low-income neighborhood of Houston, before they broke ground in January on a 4,300-square-foot house on 12 acres in Magnolia, Tex., a woodsy suburb about 40 miles northwest of the city. They are overseeing the construction themselves to control costs. So it was with dismay that they arrived at the job site one morning in July to find that all the copper wiring and air-conditioning tubing had been ripped out of the rough frame of the house.
Besides the financial hit -- $11,000 -- the theft took a psychological toll. ''I felt so violated, and now I don't trust anyone,'' said Ms. Wentz, who teaches English at a community college.
The couple, along with Ryan, their 7-month-old son, spent nine nights in a tent on the property to guard the place until workers could put Sheetrock over replacement wiring. Moreover, Mr. Wentz, an airline pilot, boarded up all of the entrances, limiting access to a single security door with two deadbolts and no handle. ''Now we lock it up every night, and when the contractors arrive the next morning, they call us and we tell them where we hid the key,'' he said. 
According to professional homebuilders, law enforcement officials and insurers, the Wentzes' experience is not unique. Larceny at residential construction sites across the country has increased significantly in the last two years because of soaring prices of building materials like copper, lumber and cement, they said. The National Association of Home Builders, a trade group, estimates that the annual cost of theft to the industry has reached $5 billion. The problem has meant higher material and insurance costs for builders, who pass them along to buyers, sometimes to the tune of tens of thousands of dollars. In the end, that can add as much as 10 percent to the cost of a home, builders and developers said.
A cottage industry of guard services, surveillance devices and private investigators has emerged to prevent theft as well as catch thieves in the act. Larceny is an issue at commercial sites, of course, but residential projects are particular targets because they are often easier to access. The situation is worse in regions where homebuilding remains relatively strong, like in parts of Texas, North Carolina, New York and Louisiana, and remains a problem in states where home construction has slackened, like Florida, Nevada, Michigan and Arizona.
''Builders in Chapter 11 and lenders foreclosing on properties still under construction aren't as diligent about security,'' said Mark Ouimette, managing director at Beecher Carlson, an insurance company based in Atlanta that underwrites policies for homebuilders.
Indeed, police officials from Tucson to Miami report that thieves often peruse foreclosure filings to find idle and unsupervised projects. Insurers like Beecher Carlson said that theft has forced them to increase homebuilders' insurance rates by 10 percent to 15 percent in the last two years.
But even builders who erect fences and install surveillance cameras are losing materials as thieves become bolder, or perhaps more desperate, in a weakened economy. ''They'll take anything that's not nailed down, and even stuff that is nailed down,'' said Jeff Stokley, a developer who builds houses in the Wilmington and Cape Fear areas in North Carolina for $175,000 to $225,000. ''They'll rip copper wiring out from behind the Sheetrock.''
Homebuilders and police officials said that stolen building materials commonly include wiring, piping, siding, lumber, shingles, bags of cement and bolts of insulation. People break into trailers and steal tools, generators and extension cords. Doors, windows, bathtubs, appliances and air-conditioning units are sometimes missing the day after they are installed.
''We have to pass the cost on to the consumer,'' which can add tens of thousands of dollars to the purchase price, said Frank Naso, of the Naso Organization, which builds homes in the $400,000 range on Staten Island. The premium includes the cost of the private security guards he has had to hire to patrol his projects. ''It's tough when you're trying to build affordable housing,'' Mr. Naso said.
Security services that have sprung up in the last five years to protect construction sites from theft offer not only guard services but also wireless motion-detecting security systems and solar-powered robotic surveillance units that squawk recorded messages at intruders, like ''You are trespassing!'' and ''The police have been notified!''
Some homebuilders have hired private investigators and participated in police sting operations to hunt down thieves.
Steven Watson, of the investigation firm Attoe-Watson in Madison, Wis., was hired last December by Veridian, a local homebuilder, to find out who was stealing from its construction sites. ''The materials would be delivered one day and be gone the next,'' Mr. Watson said.
He installed a Global Positioning System tracking device in a box of aluminum siding at a job site. ''At 4 a.m. we got the call the box was on the move,'' he said. Mr. Watson followed the signal to an apartment complex and found the thieves in an underground garage, cutting up the siding for resale at a scrap yard. ''I had a powwow with the police, and they came and arrested them,'' Mr. Watson said.
Law enforcement officials said that many thefts are connected to organized rings. ''We're seeing it in connection to drug dealing,'' said Lt. Col. Mike Willis of the Memphis Police Department. On July 1 the police there found a cache of more than $100,000 worth of construction materials when serving a search warrant as part of a narcotics investigation.
Several states have passed legislation to combat the problem. In North Carolina, for example, construction site thefts are now a felony offense rather than a misdemeanor, and carry stiffer penalties, including jail time, restitution and community service. New York State passed legislation last year requiring that metal dealers ask scrap sellers for government-issued photo identification and retain records of transactions for at least two years.
Memphis; Houston; St. Louis; Modesto, Calif.; and Springfield, Ill., have also passed or are considering ordinances that require scrap metal dealers to film all transactions, for example, or to hold materials for a minimum of 10 days.
But in some cases the thieves are construction workers on the site, or even neighbors who have decided to help themselves to the materials.
''It's amazing how people rationalize loading up their cars with plywood or bricks for their personal use,'' said Randall Pitcock, the owner of Pitcock & Croix, a builder in College Station, Tex. When confronted, he said, they usually chuckle and claim that they were taking a few things that would not be missed.
Mr. Pitcock said he chuckles, too, as he presses charges.
Rolling Up the Welcome Mat
IN addition to fencing and security guards, builders are employing a variety of novel strategies to combat construction site theft. Some said they use deer cameras, which are normally used to monitor wildlife on hunting grounds. These sturdy, waterproof cameras snap pictures when they detect motion.
Other builders said they have invested in wireless security systems like the Tattletale (starting at $800), from Tattletale Portable Alarm Systems in Westerville, Ohio. It pages them when thieves cross sensors strategically hidden throughout the job site. Then there are mobile surveillance units, like the $25,000 one at left manufactured by CPS Security Solutions of Gardena, Calif.
It has a license plate recognition camera, a camera that pans, tilts and zooms, and a strobe light, among other features; its cameras can record or be monitored remotely by security officers who will notify the police as well as shout threateningly at intruders through a mounted speaker: ''No trespassing!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOME SAFE HOME: After a theft in July, the Wentzes -- Eugene, Sue and baby Ryan -- guarded their building site by sleeping in a tent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TO CATCH A THIEF: Steven Watson, top, a private investigator in Wisconsin, installed a Global Positioning System device in a box of aluminum siding at a job site to track thieves. Eugene Wentz, above, shows how wiring was stolen from his Texas house while it was being built.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP, ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE, MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); INSURANCE (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (75%) TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



694 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; THE FIX; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Carbon Footprint: Saving at Home

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
YOU know your shoe size. But you probably don't know your carbon footprint, particularly the footprint of your home.
 ''The term 'carbon footprint' is used to describe the amount of greenhouse gases that are emitted into the atmosphere each year by a person, household, building, organization or company,'' said Cathy Milbourn, a spokeswoman for the federal Environmental Protection Agency.
 One of the main sources of greenhouse gases is the home. ''For individuals, about 40 percent of our carbon emissions come from our homes,'' said Eric Carlson, the executive director of Carbonfund.org, an environmental group in Silver Spring, Md. 
 Activities outside the home, like driving or flying, are part of the problem, too. But what happens in the kitchen, living room, bedroom, bathroom and yard is important, from heating to cooking to using products whose manufacture produces emissions that can be harmful. 
 According to the E.P.A., the average carbon footprint for a two-person household in the United States is 41,500 pounds a year. That's far from the ideal: Mr. Carlson said he hopes that all households, no matter the number of people living there, reduce their levels by as much as 50 to 80 percent in the next 40 years. 
 So, what to do now?
 ''Significantly reducing your carbon footprint usually requires a dramatic lifestyle change,'' said Craig Diamond, the director for strategy and operations of the Climate Trust in Portland, Ore. ''People have to decide how important it is for them to contribute to the solution.''
 Among the appliances that add to the overall number are stoves, barbecues, refrigerators, fans, microwave ovens, televisions, radios, air-conditioners, lights, computers, you name it -- virtually any device the average person uses in a day.
 Even simple tasks like mowing the grass can add to the problem if the device uses gas or electricity, Mr. Diamond said. Lighting a gas or electric fireplace raises the number, while using a wood-burning fireplace does not.
 Breaking old habits is not easy, but experts say the rewards are worth it, not only for the environment but also for the pocketbook. Those who reduce their carbon footprint by decreasing their energy use, they say, usually reduce their energy costs as well.
 Replacing an inefficient hot-water heater with an energy-efficient model can reduce annual carbon-dioxide emissions by as much as 3,285 pounds and energy costs by $263, Consumer Reports says. Lowering a house's temperature by 5 degrees for eight hours while people sleep and 10 degrees while they are at work can save 3,150 pounds in emissions and $252 in annual energy expenses. (Other suggestions are at greenerchoices.org.) 
 Harvey Sachs, a senior fellow at the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy in Washington, said that upgrading inefficient systems could save 30 percent in heating costs.
 To reduce energy expenses and carbon levels, buy appliances with the E.P.A.'s Energy Star label, said Enesta Jones, an E.P.A. spokeswoman. ''Energy Star clothes washers are at least 25 percent more efficient than the standard product and meet water efficiency requirements, which also helps save energy,'' she said. Most of the items cost more than traditional ones, but energy costs are less, she said. (A product list is at energystar.gov.)
 Many Web sites offer calculators to help figure out carbon profiles, factoring in data like a house's age, its insulation and the types of fuel, electricity and bulbs used. (Though the E.P.A. gives an average for a two-person home, the calculators give figures for all household sizes.) Nadav Malin, editor of Environmental Building News, a newsletter in Brattleboro, Vt., suggests the Cool Climate Carbon Footprint calculator (coolclimate.berkeley.edu); the Low Impact Living calculator (lowimpactliving.com); the World Resources Institute's calculator (safeclimate.net); TerraPass (terrapass.com); and one on the E.P.A.'s site (epa.gov/climatechange/emissions/individual.html).

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM ROBINSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (94%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (70%) OREGON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



695 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; IN THE GARDEN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: A Backyard Bargain In the Bronx

BYLINE: By JOYCE WADLER

 BODY:
IT'S late summer in a lush terraced garden in the South Bronx, and it's time to play every New Yorker's favorite game: Wonder how much this put them back? 
 The property at hand is the garden of a classic town house, a 20-by-40-foot lot with stands of lavender and white phlox; a climbing red rose; jostling beds of pink, purple and white impatiens; and walls covered with ivy and grapevines. A smattering of morning glories climbs a latticework arbor and a peach tree is heavy with fruit. 
 O.K., the peaches, as the gardener, Sam Oglesby, points out, don't look so good. Some have a lovely pink blush, but others are covered with a chalky, gray-white mold; one appears to be totally ossified, the sort of peach that might have been discovered in the archeological dig of the terra cotta warriors. ''It's a horrible peach tree,'' Mr. Oglesby says. ''The peaches go from biggest and best to immediately rotten right away. I've got to get to the bottom of this.'' But even these peaches do not detract from this garden's charm, interestingly -- they contribute to its relaxed and welcoming character, like an old cashmere throw in a boho living room. 
 The garden, it turns out, is a budgetary triumph: Mr. Oglesby created it for $3,354, and spends an additional $400 a year for plants and fertilizer. The big-ticket item was landscaping, which included bringing in numerous layers of gravel and sand and dirt, and putting down the brick pathway and wall retainers. That part was $3,000.
 How did Mr. Oglesby, who was well ahead of the recent wave of transplanted Manhattan professionals when he bought this property 10 years ago, accomplish so much for so little money?
 ''There's a whole other world in New York City of, how can I say it in the right way?'' Mr. Oglesby attempts to describe an enterprising immigrant workforce operating free of bureaucratic constraint. ''The guy who put the bricks down was Bangladeshi; masonry in this area is done a lot by South Asians -- Bangladeshis, Pakistanis and Indians. He was in the neighborhood doing stoop work; I just went up to him and asked. He came with a truck and brought turf through the house.'' 
 The perennials?
 ''The phlox came from a forest that abuts a friend's place in the country. The roses are red wild roses. They came from a neighbor, an old Puerto Rican lady across the street, she took a shine to us and gave me a cutting of a climbing rose. That's why I call this the cheap thrills garden: we didn't pay anything for it and it performs. Sometimes I come out in this garden and I yell at it, Perform! Perform! Perform!''
 Mr. Oglesby, who is 69, is something of a performer himself; even before this reporter arrives, he sends photos of the garden with his two cats posed like temple goddesses in front of a stone Buddha, and tells a funny New York story of how they came into his life.
 ''There was this woman who had a clandestine cat sanctuary in Stuyvesant Village, she had about 30 cats, she also had a homeless nun. ...'' 
 Arrive at Mr. Oglesby's house in mid-morning, he's got fresh-brewed Starbucks. No time to go to lunch? He'll whip you up a cheese and turkey sandwich, toasting the bread. A hint of where this desire to please may have come from can be found in his self-published memoir, ''Postcards From the Past,'' in which he writes that when he was a ''rather effeminate boy'' his father nicknamed him Margaret Rose, after the younger daughter of King George VI. His father was an economist in post-World War II Japan, which was where Mr. Oglesby grew up. After college, he worked for two years for the American Foreign Service in Vietnam. He was terminated in 1968, he says, after a security clearance interview in which he said he had once had a homosexual experience.
 ''I was totally destroyed,'' Mr. Oglesby says. ''What I wanted my whole life was to follow in my father's footsteps.''
 Mr. Oglesby went on to have a long career with the United Nations, working for 25 years in overseas development, while living in Thailand, Burma, Indonesia, Bhutan and Bangladesh, before returning to New York. In Indonesia, he met his partner; they have been together for 26 years. 
 Mr. Oglesby found the 1897 three-story brick town house in the South Bronx after he retired 10 years ago. It was owned by a seamstress. The purchase price was $113,000. The backyard was a lightly paved lot, with overgrown grapevines, dead fruit trees and an outhouse.
 ''She never came out here,'' Mr. Oglesby was saying on a recent morning, sitting with the reporter in the garden, as a stray cat took a walk on a far garden wall, evoking the New York of Archy and Mehitabel. ''There were cans and old pieces of fabric thrown out from the sewing machine. What was it Vincent Price says in that song about the funk of 40,000 years staring me in the face?'' 
 ''Nice cat,'' says the reporter, this being the kind of aggressive questioning the garden provokes.
 ''I hate that cat,'' Mr. Oglesby says. 
 Mr. Oglesby and friends demolished the long-abandoned outhouse and cleaned up the lot in one marathon weekend. In the group was a Romanian contractor with a weightlifter's physique, who removed the thin cover of cement, for $100. Then Mr. Oglesby tackled the problem of design. 
 ''I had two ideas,'' he says. ''One was an old French courtyard, with almost no plants, just very pretty bricks and a circular bench under the elm tree, but I thought it would probably take too long for the tree to grow and I'd probably be dead. Then I conceived the idea of limited walking space with beds on either side.''
 Enter the $3,000 landscaper, whose work included building a 16-inch brick retaining wall for the raised portion of the garden. Additional expenses were $125 for ivy, which would take about four years to cover the cinderblocks of a neighbor's wall and $15 for the paint and wood-slat remnants that would cover the wall on the other side.
 Being neither entirely sunny nor entirely shady, the garden was a challenge. For his perennials, Mr. Oglesby chose hostas ($84 for 7 pots), pachysandra ($30 for 6 pots), and the phlox, roses and lilies of the valley, which were free from friends. With the addition of annuals, which included impatiens, the garden was ''complete, and performing in a manicured fussy kind of way,'' Mr. Oglesby says, with plants ''standing straight at attention like soldiers.'' Four years ago, he decided the arbor needed morning glories, a decision he came to regret. After two years, they were taking over, something he now refers to as ''the attack of the killer morning glory vines.'' The garden was a chaotic free-for-all. 
 This precipitated a frenzy of trying unsuccessfully to get rid of the outlaw morning glories, followed by despair, and then enlightenment, triggered not by the Buddha, but by the memory of a visit to the home of a Scottish landscape designer friend, Michael Laurie, years before.
 ''His backyard was what I called weeds,'' Mr. Oglesby says. ''I said, Michael, what in the world is this? He said, 'Sam, this is nature,' and it started sinking in. You know how sometimes you're confronted with a situation you initially think is uninteresting and repulsive, and gradually something sinks in, that it's kind of cool. Michael Laurie and the morning glory invasion are responsible for this messy, sloppy, wild garden.''
 A few days later, Mr. Oglesby sends a note. 
 ''I was looking out at the garden this morning,'' he writes. ''It is past its 'prime' now, but even more glorious in its sluttish voluptuousness.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PEACEABLE KINGDOM: Sam Oglesby, a former economic development specialist, created his backyard garden in the South Bronx with sweat equity, free plants and neighborhood talent. His annual budget: $400.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GARDENING (78%); FERTILIZERS (73%); BUDGETS (69%); LABOR FORCE (67%); ARCHAEOLOGY (53%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



696 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Report Signaling Consumer Confidence Lifts Markets

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street posted a big advance after the government reported a larger-than-expected increase in orders for big-ticket manufactured goods, indicating that the economy is stronger than many investors thought.
The Commerce Department said orders for durable goods rose 1.3 percent in July compared with the previous month, led by a big gain in demand for commercial aircraft. That was well above the 0.1 increase expected by economists surveyed by Thomson/IFR.
Durable goods, which also include cars, appliances and machinery, are under scrutiny not only because they reflect business spending, but because they are also an indicator of consumer confidence. The July increase equaled a 1.3 percent rise in June; both months produced the strongest gains since a 4.1 percent increase in December. 
Light, sweet crude oil rose $1.88 to settle at $118.15 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange on worries that Tropical Storm Gustav might hit Gulf of Mexico installations.
''The strength in durable goods is just the latest indication that manufacturing is actually holding in quite well, and that's a really big plus,'' said Stuart Schweitzer, global markets strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank. ''Against the backdrop of the drumbeat of negative news of the last several weeks, it was encouraging to see a little bit of positive news. The basic fact of the matter is that although the economy has been weak, it hasn't fallen off a cliff.''
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 89.64 points, or 0.79 percent, to 11,502.51.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 10.15 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,281.66, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 20.49 points, or 0.87 percent, to 2,382.46.
Trading was light ahead of the long Labor Day weekend.
Stocks ended mixed on Tuesday as Gustav, then at hurricane strength, sent oil prices higher and offset a better-than-expected reading on consumer confidence.
Bond prices rose. The 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, to 101 30/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, slipped to 3.76 percent, from 3.77 percent late Tuesday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.
Mr. Schweitzer said that the relative strength of the manufacturing sector, fed in part by a weak dollar, which makes United States goods less expensive abroad, was helping the overall economy.
''The weakness in the dollar and the strength in U.S. exports are acting like a bit of an automatic stabilizer for the U.S. economy,'' he said. ''It's a key offset at a time when other things are not so good.''
But Mark A. Coffelt, portfolio manager at Empiric Funds in Austin, Tex., cautioned against reading too much into the durable goods report and said economic readings would probably remain mixed. He predicted volatility would remain high as investors thumb through a list of concerns about the financial sector, housing and energy costs.
Rising energy prices curtailed stocks' advance in early trading on Wednesday, but investors eventually set aside some of their concerns. They appeared cheered by a prediction from the president of the Atlanta Federal Reserve, Dennis P. Lockhart, who said that he expected that overall inflation and so-called core inflation, which excludes often volatile food and energy prices, would diminish through the rest of the year and into 2009.
But the rise in oil prices still weighed on companies like airlines, which have been hurt by rising jet fuel costs. It also buoyed the energy sector.
Northwest Airlines fell 79 cents, or 8.3 percent, to $8.76.
An oil refiner, the Tesoro Corporation, rose $1.84, or 11 percent, to $18.41, while Valero Energy Corporation added $1.42, or 4.2 percent, to $35.02.
Several retailers advanced after signaling that business was stronger than some on Wall Street might have expected, offering some reassurance about consumer spending and in turn, the health of the economy.
Talbots, the clothing retailer, rose $2.82, or 28 percent, to $12.82 after it raised its forecast for 2008 per-share earnings.
Following are the results of Wednesday's auction of two-year Treasury notes:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); DURABLE GOODS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (88%); CURRENCIES (88%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); BONDS (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (73%); METALS MARKETS (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); HURRICANES (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (71%); WEATHER (68%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (68%); TROPICAL STORMS (68%); US LABOR DAY (67%); EXPORT TRADE (62%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



697 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Design May Be Simplified At Trade Center Transit Hub

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
As one architectural ambition after another was given up at ground zero for economy, security and politics, it seemed that the architect Santiago Calatrava's vision of a luminous, cavernous World Trade Center Transportation Hub would be immune from major change.
 No more. 
 With the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey seeking significant savings in the budget and the timetable of the trade center reconstruction, a key element of Mr. Calatrava's design --a vast underground mezzanine free of columns -- may be in jeopardy.
 Estimates vary on how much the projected cost of the transportation hub currently exceeds its $2.5 billion budget, but it could be at least several hundred million dollars.
 Spanning great spaces without the interruption of columns is certainly possible and, all else being equal, aesthetically desirable. But it also adds to the complexity of construction. 
 Two alternatives under consideration call for standard column-and-beam construction instead of the long spans and cantilevers proposed by Mr. Calatrava. 
 For his part, Mr. Calatrava says his design can be constructed on budget and on time, noting that there had already been revisions made to it without abandoning the columnless approach.
 ''It has always been my goal to deliver a beautiful, practical transportation hub for Lower Manhattan,'' he said in a statement released by his office. ''In its revised state, the project retains all of its fundamental beauty, and the adjustments make it an ever-more-functional and coherent facility that will serve New York well in the years to come.'' 
 No version would eliminate the ribbed and winged roof over the hub's arrival hall, east of Greenwich Street, which Mr. Calatrava has likened to a bird in flight. Keeping it would permit officials to assert that they had been faithful to the original architectural concept.
 But it is the underground mezzanine, west of Greenwich Street, that will be the functional heart of the hub, occupying the level between the arrival hall and the PATH platforms. How it is treated depends in part on whether it is seen as a passageway through which commuters hurry or as a ceremonial gateway on the scale of the main concourse at Grand Central Terminal.
 At the tightly squeezed trade center site, how the mezzanine is constructed has an effect on all the buildings around it. Directly above it would be one corner of the 9/11 memorial plaza. Adjoining it would be the lower level of Tower 3, a 71-story office tower being developed by Silverstein Properties. Running through it would be the tracks and station of the No. 1 subway.
 At the end of September, Christopher O. Ward, the executive director of the Port Authority, is to report to the authority's board on how the agency intends to resolve the numerous logistical, structural and financial conflicts that have stalled progress and raised costs at ground zero.
 In the case of the hub, the authority must balance its fiduciary role with its role as advocate for Mr. Calatrava's plan.
 The three conceptual versions of the transportation hub under discussion are:
 The revised version of the original design in which Mr. Calatrava and his partners in the Downtown Design Partnership, the firms STV and DMJM, have been directly involved. This version would maintain the mezzanine as an uninterrupted, column-free space.
 An alternative calling for reuse of existing columns. This has been advanced by a group convened to help Mr. Ward in his assessment. It is headed by Mickey Kupperman, an executive at Silverstein, and has involved the Turner Construction Company, the architectural firm Beyer Blinder Belle and the engineering firms AKF and Leslie E. Robertson Associates.
 An alternative that would use what the authority describes as ''a more traditional column-supported structural approach to the PATH mezzanine.'' This has been developed by a team led by the authority's chief engineer, Francis J. Lombardi.
 It is too early to say which approach, or which combination, will prevail.
 ''The whole point of the report is to answer these questions and move forward,'' said Stephen Sigmund, a spokesman for the authority. He said the authority was working with Mr. Calatrava ''to preserve as much of his original vision'' as possible but added, ''These aren't easy fixes.''
 Joseph C. Daniels, the president and chief executive of the National September 11 Memorial and Museum, said on Wednesday that to have the plaza ready for visitors by the 10th anniversary of the attack, the steel and concrete framework of the mezzanine below must be completed by July 2010.
 ''Everything has to be done to make that date,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rendering of the World Trade Center Transportation Hub's mezzanine level as first envisioned. Columns may be added.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (85%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (67%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (65%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



698 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Work to Minimize Stadium Setting's Political Risks

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
When Senator Barack Obama announced in early July that he would give his nomination address in an outdoor stadium in front of 75,000 people, he wowed members of both parties who saw it as an inspired stroke of campaign image making.
 But as he landed here on Wednesday and prepared to become the first presidential candidate in nearly 50 years to accept his party's nomination on such a big stage, the plan seemed as much risky as bold. 
 With daunting challenges of logistics, style and substance, the plan was hatched before the Republicans began a concerted drive to paint Mr. Obama as a media sensation lacking the resume to be president. Now Obama aides are feeling all the more pressure to bring a lofty candidacy to ground level, showing that Mr. Obama grasps the concerns of everyday Americans.
 On Wednesday, workers were still making changes to Invesco Field, home to the Denver Broncos, so it would feel more intimate, less like the boisterous rallies that served Mr. Obama so well early in the primaries, but also created the celebrity image that dogs him.
 They were still testing camera angles, so Mr. Obama would appear among the giant crowd, not above it. They took steps to reduce the echo effect, familiar to football fans, of speaking in such a cavernous space. Planners scrapped their idea to turn the audience of 75,000 into a giant phone bank, in response to fears that the cellphone system would crash (people will instead be asked to text-message friends and neighbors to support the campaign, program aides said would be effective nonetheless.) 
 And workers put the finishing touches on the backdrop: faux columns intended to suggest a federal building in Washington and create an air of stateliness. (The McCain campaign named it the Temple of Obama, a label repeated by some commentators.)
 Mr. Obama shared his rationale for the move when he took the stage at the Pepsi Center on Wednesday night. ''We're going to be moving to Mile High Stadium tomorrow, and I want to let you know why,'' he said. ''We want to open up this convention to make sure that everybody that wants to come can join in the party and join in the effort to take America back.''
 Yet for Mr. Obama, the dramatic setting of the speech, which will take place between 10 and 11 p.m. Eastern time, stands in contrast to the ''workmanlike'' message he intends to offer.
 ''I'm not aiming for a lot of high rhetoric,'' he said Wednesday. ''I am much more concerned with communicating how I intend to help middle-class families live their lives.''
 Mr. Obama holed up in a Chicago hotel over the weekend, and worked on the address well into the night this week with a small group of aides. He has studied several acceptance speeches, including Bill Clinton's in 1992, Ronald Reagan's in 1980 and John F. Kennedy's in 1960. 
 Some aides worried about the setting overwhelming the message. But those closest to the planning said they had no regrets and were sticking to the sort of big-event politics that no other candidate has been able to match this year.
 ''We are leaning into this, how can you not?'' said Jenny Backus, a campaign strategist working on the convention plan. ''This is the enthusiasm gap,'' referring to what polls show as excitement for Mr. Obama that Senator John McCain's campaign has not matched. 
 Dee Dee Myers, a former press secretary to President Clinton, said that delegates in the hall were excited about the stadium event but that it was the party's senior strategists who were more wary of the setting.
 ''There's a concern in the campaign about how do you pull this off in a way that makes it about the economic themes they want to hit,'' Ms. Myers said. ''He needs to get from the stadium to the diner, and it's a hard thing to pull off.''
 Mr. Obama's aides had hoped to upend the traditional convention style. But the prolonged primary fight with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton left the convention in the hands of the party's career planners. Their flashy stage design, which has been likened to an arcade, had none of the look or feel of the more spare style of the Obama brand. 
 When a close circle of his top advisers presented Mr. Obama with $6 million plans to move his acceptance speech to the football stadium in early July, the candidate asked one question, said Anita Dunn, a senior strategist: ''Will it rain?'' The campaign produced a raft of meteorological data showing it had rained on Aug. 28 only once in 20 years. (Aides were alarmed, however, to arrive in Denver on Sunday to news of a nearby tornado.)
 Peter Gage, one of the Obama planners, said he studied photographs of Kennedy's speech at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, the only other such address to be held in an outdoor stadium in the modern television era.
 Mr. Gage said the circular stage in Denver was inspired by Kennedy's. A Sky Cam above the field will provide bird's-eye views. Mr. Obama's family will sit on seats on the floor before him, along with voters from swing states. The goal is to highlight ordinary people, and then mobilize them to work for the campaign.
 The Obama campaign dismissed Republican attempts to turn the night against them.
 ''I know that Senator McCain and his people are shooting barbs on the opulence of our convention from the mountaintop in Sedona from the McCain estate,'' said David Axelrod, the campaign's chief strategist. ''I don't think it warrants a response.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Changes were still being made on Wednesday at Invesco Field, the home of the Denver Broncos, where Senator Barack Obama will deliver his acceptance speech before 75,000 people.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (73%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS FANS (73%); TEXT MESSAGING (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%)

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DENVER BRONCOS (83%)

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



699 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: As Democrats Seek a Political Oneness

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Clinton Rallies Her Troops to Fight for Obama'' (front page, Aug. 27):
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton gave a terrific speech Tuesday night at the Democratic National Convention that demonstrated how we had two great candidates for president in this year's Democratic primaries. 
 Each has flaws -- what presidential candidate, or living human, for that matter, doesn't? -- but either candidate would bring tremendous potential to the White House. 
 Mrs. Clinton reminded us that both she and Senator Barack Obama stand for the same goals and aspirations for the American people. 
 What really concerns me is whether this country is really willing to trust either a woman or a black man as president. Why else can John McCain still be even remotely in the race? 
 Kathleen Learned 
 Seattle, Aug. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I am a Democrat who never liked Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. I am a staunch supporter of Senator Barack Obama.
 On Tuesday night, Mrs. Clinton graduated from politician to stateswoman.
 After her convention speech, all is forgiven: I love Hillary Clinton. 
 Tracy Leverton 
 Vienna, Va., Aug. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 On Tuesday night Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton gave what some have called a ''full-throated endorsement'' of Senator Barack Obama. 
 She didn't, however, rally her troops, especially women, around one of the most critical issues of this election. Those of her ardent supporters who have vowed to vote for John McCain or sit out the voting process threaten to do themselves and future generations an enormous disservice. 
 At issue is the makeup of the Supreme Court. Four Supreme Court justices -- John Paul Stevens, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Antonin Scalia and Anthony M. Kennedy -- are older than Mr. McCain. 
 Mr. McCain has promised that if elected, he will appoint ultraconservative justices who will change the court to the point that it will reverse Roe v. Wade. Mr. McCain has pledged to do his best to deny women their right to choose. 
 The continuance of Roe v. Wade transcends, by far, any petulant grudge against Mr. Obama that would help elect Mr. McCain. Laure Dunne 
 Norwalk, Conn., Aug. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 When someone in the United States chooses a male candidate in a primary, because of his policies, experience and judgment, and the candidate is not nominated, most of us will feel disappointed and then go on to make the best choice we can in the general election. 
 A man's right to be president is not in question.
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's supporters, however, were doing additional work -- to expand women's rights in our country. She and they need not, and must not, give up this project. 
 I believe that when the path to expanding women's rights becomes clear, Mrs. Clinton's supporters will feel more comfortable voting for their second choice in the general election.
 Giving up on one female candidate need not mean giving up on the continuing struggle for women's rights. 
 Victor B. Kava 
 Arlington, Mass., Aug. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 After hearing Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's superb speech, I must express my admiration for Senator Barack Obama's confidence. 
 By choosing Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. as his running mate, he obviously feels that he can win without her and her passionate supporters. 
 Jackson Slade 
 Knoxville, Tenn., Aug. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''High Anxiety in the Mile High City,'' by Maureen Dowd (column, Aug. 27): 
 It is mind-boggling that some supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton would refuse to support Senator Barack Obama or, worse, actually vote for Senator John McCain. 
 They'd be supporting a virulently pro-war, anti-abortion candidate who has no decent health care plan and who would give the same raw deal to struggling working families that the Bush administration did. 
 Do they really want to wreak this kind of damage on the country? If so, why did they even vote for Mrs. Clinton in the first place? Mark Silverman 
 Amherst, Mass., Aug. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Maureen Dowd's column on the Democratic National Convention alerted me to the real possibility, which I've been reluctant to admit to myself, that the Democratic Party could fail to unify, more or less completely, behind Barack Obama's candidacy. 
 In the 1968 presidential election, the first in which I voted, Democrats mobilized too little, too late to enable Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey to win. 
 One rationale I heard voiced often during the campaign for not getting behind Mr. Humphrey was that after four years of Richard M. Nixon, the country would come to its senses. 
 In 1972, President Nixon, running for re-election, beat the pants off Senator George McGovern. 
 Conditions are ripe for the Democrats in 2008. If they fail to seize the opportunity now, I wouldn't count on it arising again anytime soon. Roth Wilkofsky 
 Boston, Aug. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 ''For Obama, a Challenge to Clarify His Message and Define Himself'' (news analysis, Aug. 27) says that the question for Barack Obama is whether the drama of the convention is swamping the economic message voters want to hear.
 The drama of the whole campaign has gone way past that. Many of us are sickened by the unceasing use of hot-button words -- ''dreams,'' ''hope,'' ''America's future'' and so on -- in lieu of firm positions. 
 Repeating these phrases, all blank checks, instead of discussing policy issues and a serious evaluation of American political and social values, shows a cynical disregard for our intelligence and the political process itself. 
 I am a lifelong Democrat, but I have been sickened by Mr. Obama's vapid campaign rhetoric. It's time to vote for a third party, if for no other reason than to force the Democrats to respect its thinking base. Miriam M. Reik 
 Stone Ridge, N.Y., Aug. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''One First Is Celebrated. What About the Second?'' (The TV Watch, Aug. 27), Alessandra Stanley takes issue with the Obama campaign for whiting out too much of Barack Obama's racial heritage during the convention and highlighting his ordinary-American struggles. 
 This is not simply an election strategy, but another example of how effectively he walks his talk. 
 There are always more commonalities than differences among people. Mr. Obama seems singularly obsessed with lifting us over chasms that have stymied our collective will to achieve equality. 
 This is why the man is not just a pandering politician but also an authentic visionary. Patricia Carino Pasick 
 Ann Arbor, Mich., Aug. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 First I cried during Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's speech Tuesday night over lost promise. Then I read ''The Myth of Biden v. Bork,'' by Jeffrey Rosen (Op-Ed, Aug. 27), and was infuriated all over again.
 What I read Mr. Rosen as saying is that Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., while conducting the hearings on Clarence Thomas's nomination to the Supreme Court, muzzled Anita Hill and three other witnesses to protect Judge Thomas's privacy. 
 Did it not occur to Mr. Biden that he was letting a man who viewed women as sex objects and treated a highly educated and professional woman in a sexual and sexist manner become a permanent fixture on our highest court? 
 And people wonder why we just can't get over it? 
 Until you can really see all the sexism ingrained in our society, as we women do every single day, you just won't understand.
 Ah, dreams shattered, not glass ceilings. Laura Sessions 
 Glen Cove, N.Y., Aug. 27, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WARD SCHUMAKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); WOMEN (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); MEN (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (55%); ANTONIN SCALIA (55%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (50%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



700 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Obama's From Main St., Ain't He?

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
 There was a moment during his victorious primary campaign in South Carolina in January when Barack Obama was saying something isn't right and a guy in the crowd shouted: ''Ain't right, Barack, ain't right.''
 I didn't think much of this isn't-versus-ain't thing at the time, but it's been on my mind here at the Democratic National Convention because the whole production, so far, has been mainly about demonstrating that Obama's a regular guy from Main Street, U.S.A. -- and that ain't no made-up story. 
 Sure, there are issues. There's a middle class mauled by $4-a-gallon-plus gas, soaring health costs, Bangalored jobs and lost homes -- while the rich got tax breaks. 
 But if the economy now trumps Iraq, I'd say personality still trumps the economy. In the end, the election will be about trust and authenticity. 
 At least 80 percent of Americans think the country's going in the wrong direction, one set by Republicans in the White House for all but 12 of the last 40 years. So the result in November should be a no-brainer: change, the word that has propelled Obama this far. 
 In the last few weeks, however, as Obama's lead in the polls over the Republican candidate, John McCain, has all but vanished, that logic has frayed. Obama's got some connection issues. 
 He's been unable to push significantly beyond the yes-we-can fervor of his broad band of followers into the skeptical white, blue-collar America that favored Hillary Clinton and whose support he needs. 
 He's been Denzel Washington playing the reassuring, handsome attorney on a stirring moral mission, reaching across enough barriers of race and class to get within sight of the White House. But can he now moderate that polished image to spread his appeal to the meat-and-potatoes crowd? 
 Is Obama more beer than Chardonnay? Is he a Dunkin' Donuts or Starbucks guy? Must he talk fancy? Is he one of us despite having what his wife Michelle called ''that funny name?'' 
 That's been the subtext of this convention, and Hillary's people have not been discouraging it. 
 The funny-name reference came in Michelle's touching speech on the convention's opening night, a tribute devoted to answering those identity questions by evoking a basketball-playing, loving, industrious, idealistic, constant husband devoted to his daughters and driven to rise from adversity by a dream of opportunity for all. 
 Yes, it was touching, but it was also a little cloying. 
 Again I found my mind going back to South Carolina where Michelle's heels were higher, outfit bolder, and tone more forthright. Since then, with her pride in America questioned, she's been choreographed toward the demure in the interests of placing the family in the mainstream. 
 ''I saw a very interesting, complex woman who had been reduced to saying what a good mom she was and how cute her meeting with Barack was,'' said John McWhorter, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. ''It was sincere, but I found myself cringing.'' 
 McWhorter thinks Obama must remember that ''being reflective will not get him elected.'' Strong, focused and memorable is the tone he needs, as in Bill Clinton's line on affirmative action: ''Mend it, don't end it.'' In recent weeks, reading Obama's lips on everything from the Russian invasion of Georgia to the rights of fetuses has been tough. 
 The fact Obama is under such pressure reflects Republican success since Reagan in framing Democrats as weak, unpatriotic, indecisive Volvo-driving nerds. ''Conservative populism has successfully cast the liberal elite as looking down on the values of ordinary Americans,'' said George Lakoff, a political theorist. 
 The best response to that is reality. Ordinary Americans are debt-ridden and struggling and values won't pay their bills. Obama has been eloquent in describing this and proposing a new inclusive politics. 
 Eloquence, however, isn't for everyone. He has not made an issue his own -- not even energy -- or found the one-liner to frame it. 
 But ain't all this dumb? Here's Obama, just finished with paying off his student loans, having to prove that he's more mainstream than seven-house McCain, who's just learning ''to get online myself,'' as he told my colleagues Adam Nagourney and Michael Cooper, and leaves e-mail to minions. 
 Dumb as in John Kerry, four years ago, having to prove his patriotism when he'd fought in Vietnam while George W. Bush fooled around Texas. 
 But that's where Obama is: it's hardball now. Hillary Clinton can broaden his constituency, but will she? Her support for him on the convention's second night seemed more of form than spirit, devoid of personal affection. Bill Clinton was far more effusive. 
 The difference from 2004 is that the country is deep into economic plight, deeper into two wars, and weary of Republican fear-mongering. It may even be ready for what Mark Greenwood, a lawyer from Dickinson, N.D., called ''someone who knows how to speak the English language.'' 
 Ain't no question Obama can do that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); BASKETBALL (50%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (81%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (81%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (81%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); DENZEL WASHINGTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



701 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Obama Wins Nomination; Biden and Bill Clinton Rally Party

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Kitty Bennett, John Broder and Janet Elder contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Barack Hussein Obama, a freshman senator who defeated the first family of Democratic Party politics with a call for a fundamentally new course in politics, was nominated by his party today to be the 44th president of the United States.
 The unanimous vote made Mr. Obama the first African-American to become a major party nominee for president. It brought to an end an often-bitter, two-year political struggle for the nomination with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who, standing on a packed convention floor electric with anticipation, moved to halt the roll call in progress so that the convention could nominate Mr. Obama by acclamation. That it did with a succession of loud roars, followed by a swirl of dancing, embracing, high-fiving and chants of ''Yes, we can.''
 In an effort to fully close out the lingering animosity from the primary season, former President Bill Clinton, in a speech that had been anxiously awaited by Mr. Obama's aides given the prickly relations between the two men, offered an enthusiastic and unstinting endorsement of Mr. Obama's credentials to be president. His message, like the messenger, was greeted rapturously in the hall. 
 Mr. Clinton asserted, as Mrs. Clinton had when she spoke to the convention on Tuesday night, that the nation needed to elect a Democrat to restore the damage he said President Bush had done to the country, at home and around the world. 
 ''Barack Obama is ready to lead America and restore American leadership in the world.'' Mr. Clinton said. ''Ready to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. Barack Obama is ready to be president of the United States.''
 Mr. Clinton was followed by Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, Mr. Obama's choice for vice president, who used his speech to set out the Democratic case against the Republican opponent, Senator John McCain. 
 ''Our country is less secure and more isolated than in any time in recent history,'' Mr. Biden said. ''The Bush-McCain foreign policy has dug us into a few deep holes with very few friends to help us climb out.''
 ''These times require more than a good soldier,'' Mr. Biden said. They require a wise leader.''
 In an address that was at turns personal, emotional and barbed, he said, ''Today the American dream is slipping away.''
 ''John McCain doesn't seem to get it,'' Mr. Biden said. Barack Obama gets it.
 To the delight of the crowd, at the conclusion of his address Mr. Biden was joined on stage by Mr. Obama, who made a point to thank Mr. Clinton -- with whom he has had a prickly relationship -- for his leadership as president. The historic nature of the moment quickly gave way to the political imperatives confronting Mr. Obama, who arrived here in the afternoon and is to accept the nomination Thursday night before a crowd of 75,000 people in a football stadium. After days in which the convention often seemed less about Mr. Obama than about the two families that have dominated Democratic politics for nearly a half-century, the Kennedys and the Clintons, he still faced a need to convince voters that he has concrete solutions to their economic anxieties and to rally his party against the reinvigorated candidacy of Mr. McCain. 
 The roll-call vote took place in the late afternoon -- the first time in at least 50 years that Democrats have not scheduled their roll call on prime-time television -- as Democrats sought to avoid drawing attention to the lingering resentments between Clinton and Obama delegates. Yet the historic nature of the vote escaped no one, and sent a charge through the Pepsi Center as a procession of state delegations cast their votes and the hall, slightly empty at the beginning of the vote, became shoulder-to-shoulder with Democrats eager to witness this moment.
 As planned, it fell to Mrs. Clinton to put Mr. Obama over the top. He was declared the party's nominee at 4:47 p.m. Mountain Time after Mrs. Clinton, in a light blue suit standing out in a crowd that included almost every elected New York official, moved that the roll call be suspended and that Mr. Obama by declared the party's nominee by acclamation. The vote was timed to conclude during the network evening news broadcasts.
 ''With eyes firmly fixed on the future in the spirit of unity, with the goal of victory, with faith in our party and country, let's declare together in one voice, right here and right now, that Barack Obama is our candidate and he will be our president,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
 ''I move that Senator Barack Obama of Illinois be selected by this convention by acclamation as the nominee of the Democratic Party for president of the United States,'' she said.
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi, standing at the lectern, asked for a second and was greeted by a roar of voices. A louder roar came from the crowd when she asked for support of the motion.
 When the voting was cut off, Mr. Obama had received 1,549 votes, compared with 231 for Mrs. Clinton.
 The hall pulsed when Mr. Clinton strode onto the stage for a performance that became a reminder of why Democrats had considered him a politician with once in a generation skills. There were no signs that screamed ''Clinton,'' but Democrats waved American flags in quick tempo to welcome him to the stage. Again and again, Mr. Clinton tried to quiet the crowd; they ignored him.
 ''You all sit down: We've got to get on with the show!'' he said as the applause lingered on for more than three minutes and his wife watched from the floor.
 Without mentioning Mr. McCain by name, he offered a sharp denunciation of him and Republicans as he made the case for Mr. Obama. 
 ''The Republicans will nominate a good man who served our country heroically and suffered terribly in Vietnam,'' he said, ''He loves our country every bit as much as we all do. As a senator, he has shown his independence on several issues. But on the two great questions of this election, how to rebuild the American Dream and how to restore America's leadership in the world, he still embraces the extreme philosophy which has defined his party for more than 25 years.''
 ''They actually want us to reward them for the last eight years by giving them four more,'' he said. ''Let's send them a message that will echo from the Rockies all across America: Thanks, but no thanks.''
 For Mr. Obama, the nomination -- seized from Mrs. Clinton, who just one year ago was viewed as the obvious favorite to win the nomination especially against an opponent with a scant political resume -- was a remarkable achievement in what has been a remarkable ascendance. It was less than four years ago that Mr. Obama, coming off of serving seven years as an Illinois state senator, became a member of the United States Senate. He is 47 years old, the son of a white mother from Kansas and a black father from Kenya.
 Mr. Obama's nomination came 120 years after Frederick Douglass became the first African-American to have his name entered in nomination at a major party convention. Douglass received one vote at the Republican convention in Chicago in 1888; Senator Benjamin Harrison of Indiana went on to win the White House that year.
 Making the moment even more striking was the historical nature of Mrs. Clinton's candidacy. She was the third woman whose name has been entered as a candidate for president at a major party convention. As she moved to end the roll-call vote, some women in the hall could be seen wiping tears from their eyes.
 The presidential candidate is typically an absent figure during the first few days of a convention. In this case, Mr. Obama's vacuum was filled by the Clintons and the tribute paid to the party to Mr. Kennedy on Monday night. What has taken place over the past two days might have politically necessary and even helpful, but it did not go far in helping Mr. Obama achieve some of the critical goals of this convention.
 As a result, he is under considerable pressure Thursday night to use this speech in an ambitious setting, a football stadium, to present a fuller picture of himself, Americans who might have doubts about whether he is ready to be president, and begin presenting a picture of what he would do in the White House. For Mr. Obama, the final appearance is not the coda to a convention; in many ways, it may prove to be his entire convention.
 Mr. Obama, who arrived in Denver just after 3 p.m., was at his hotel in downtown Denver with his wife and daughters when he learned that he had been nominated by acclamation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: June Van Ostern, a Virginia delegate, listened Wednesday as Hillary Rodham Clinton called for Barack Obama's nomination.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Beau Biden, the attorney general of Delaware, introduced his father, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., right. Senator Biden accepted the nomination for vice president.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Former President Bill Clinton received a rapturous welcome Wednesday night from delegates at the convention. In his speech, Mr. Clinton praised his wife's campaign for the nomination.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOE BIDEN (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



702 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1904 words

HEADLINE: Johnson's Dream, Obama's Speech

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. CARO. 
Robert A. Caro, who has won Pulitzer Prizes for his biographies of Robert Moses and Lyndon Johnson, is at work on the fourth and final volume of his Johnson biography.

 BODY:
AS I watch Barack Obama's speech to the Democratic convention tonight, I will be remembering another speech: the one that made Martin Luther King cry. And I will be thinking: Mr. Obama's speech -- and in a way his whole candidacy -- might not have been possible had that other speech not been given.
 That speech was President Lyndon Johnson's address to Congress in 1965 announcing that he was about to introduce a voting rights act, and in some respects Mr. Obama's candidacy is the climax -- at least thus far -- of a movement based not only on the sacrifices and heroism of the Rev. Dr. King and generations of black fighters for civil rights but also on the political genius of Lyndon Baines Johnson, who as it happens was born 100 years ago yesterday. 
 When, on the night of March 15, 1965, the long motorcade drove away from the White House, heading for Capitol Hill, where President Johnson would give his speech to a joint session of Congress, pickets were standing outside the gates, as they had been for weeks, and as the presidential limousine passed, they were singing the same song that was being sung that week in Selma, Ala.: ''We Shall Overcome.'' They were singing it in defiance of Johnson, because they didn't trust him. 
 They had reasons not to trust him. 
 In March 1965, black Americans in the 11 Southern states were still largely unable to vote. When they tried to register, they faced not only questions impossible to answer -- like the infamous ''how many bubbles in a bar of soap?'' -- but also the humiliation of trying to answer them in front of registrars who didn't bother to conceal their scorn. Out of six million blacks old enough to vote in those 11 states in 1965, only a small percentage -- 27 percent in Georgia, 19 percent in Alabama, 6 percent in Mississippi -- were registered. 
 What's more, those who were registered faced not only beatings and worse but economic retaliation as well if they tried to actually cast a ballot. Black men who registered might be told by their employer that they no longer had a job; black farmers who went to the bank to renew their annual ''crop loan'' were turned down, and lost their farms. Some, as I have written, ''had to load their wives and children into their rundown cars and drive away, sometimes with no place to go.'' So the number of black men and women in the South who actually cast a vote was far smaller than the number registered; in no way were black Americans realizing their political potential. 
 More important, many civil rights leaders felt that President Johnson wasn't helping them nearly as much as he could have -- and that in fact he never had. He had passed a civil rights bill in 1964, but it hadn't been a voting rights bill. 
 And they remembered his record, a long record. It was not merely that during his first 20 years, 1937 through 1956, in the House and Senate, he had voted against every civil rights bill -- even bills aimed at ending lynching. 
 Leaders of the civil rights movement who had watched their bills die, year after year, in Congress -- not a single civil rights bill had been enacted since 1870 -- knew that Johnson had been not merely a voter but a strategist against civil rights, a tactician so successful that Richard Russell of Georgia, the leader of the Senate's mighty ''Southern caucus,'' had raised him to power in the Senate, had, in fact, made him his anointed successor as the South's legislative leader, the young hope of the elderly Southern senators in their desperate battle to maintain racial segregation. 
 In 1956, by which time Lyndon Johnson was majority leader, he devised and carried out the strategy that had not only crushed a civil rights bill in the Senate by a majority greater than ever before, but had done so in a way that humiliated, in a particularly vicious manner, the liberal senator who refused to bow to his wishes, Paul Douglas of Illinois. 
 In 1957 he had engineered the passage of a civil rights bill. The mere fact of its passage in the face of Southern senatorial power -- it was the first civil rights bill to be enacted in 87 years -- made it a significant benchmark in the history of American government, and the guile and determination with which Johnson drove it to passage made it a landmark of legislative mastery as well. But he was forced to weaken it to get it through, and liberals, not understanding the obstacles he had surmounted, blamed him for not making it stronger. 
 Some civil rights leaders who had been talking to Lyndon Johnson since he became president were now, by the spring of 1965, convinced of his good faith, but most were not, and the mass of the movement, symbolized by those protesters outside the White House gates, still distrusted him.
 Men and women who knew Lyndon Johnson, however, felt there was another element to the story. They included the Mexican-American children of impoverished migrant workers he had taught as a 21-year-old schoolteacher in the little town of Cotulla, Tex.; to the ends of their lives they would talk about how hard he had worked to teach and inspire them. ''He used to tell us this country was so free that anyone could become president who was willing to work hard enough,'' one student said. 
 Others remember what one calls the story about the ''little baby in the cradle.'' As one student recalled, ''He would tell us that one day we might say the baby would be a teacher. Maybe the next day we'd say the baby would be a doctor. And one day we might say the baby -- any baby -- might grow up to be president of the United States.'' 
 His former students weren't alone. Men and women at Georgetown dinner tables were also convinced of the sincerity of Johnson's intentions. ''I remember at this dinner party, Johnson talking about teaching the Mexican-American kids in Cotulla, and his frustration that they had no books,'' recalls Bethine Church, the wife of Senator Frank Church of Idaho. ''I remember it as one of the most passionate evenings I've ever spent.'' 
 These men and women felt Johnson truly wanted to help poor people and particularly people of color, and that he was held back only by his ambition: his desire to be president, and because he was a senator from a Southern state. But when, in 1957, ambition and compassion were finally pointing in the same direction -- when he realized that he would never become president unless he removed the ''magnolia scent'' of the South -- he set out to pass a civil rights bill, he did it with a passion that showed how deeply he believed in what he was doing. 
 The bill he got was the weak one, and civil rights leaders blamed him because the advances it made were meager. Only a week before the March 1965 speech, Dr. King had said that at the rate voter registration was going, it would take 135 years before even half the blacks in Mississippi were registered. And as the limousines were pulling through the gates that night in March, the protesters were singing ''We Shall Overcome,'' as if to tell Lyndon Johnson, we'll do it without you.
 But they didn't have to. 
 When Johnson stepped to the lectern on Capitol Hill that night, he adopted the great anthem of the civil rights movement as his own. 
 ''Even if we pass this bill,'' he said, ''the battle will not be over. What happened in Selma is part of a far larger movement which reaches into everysection and state of America. It is the effort of American Negroes to secure for themselves the full blessings of American life.''
 And, Lyndon Johnson said, ''Their cause must be our cause, too. Because it is not just Negroes, but really it is all of us, who must overcome the crippling legacy of bigotry and injustice.''
 He paused, and then he said, ''And we shall overcome.''
 Martin Luther King was watching the speech at the home of a family in Selma with some of his aides, none of whom had ever, during all the hard years, seen Dr. King cry. But Lyndon Johnson said, ''We shall overcome'' -- and they saw him cry then.
 And there was another indication of the power of that speech. When the motorcade returned to the White House, the protesters were gone.
 Another significant moment had occurred in the Capitol after the speech, as Johnson was coming down the aisle accepting congratulations.
 It wasn't just congratulations he wanted. One of the congressmen on the aisle was Emanuel Celler, the 76-year-old chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which handled civil rights legislation. Long a rights champion but now an elderly man, Celler said he would start hearings on the bill the following week, but ''I can't push that committee or it might get out of hand.'' 
 Suddenly, Johnson wasn't smiling. His eyes narrowed and his face turned cold. He was still shaking Celler's hand, but with his other hand he was jabbing at the old man. ''Start them this week, Manny,'' he said. ''And hold night sessions, too.''
 Celler did. The heroism of the march at Selma, the heroism all across the South, the almost unbelievable bravery of black men and women -- and children, so many children -- who marched, and were beaten, and marched again, for the right to vote, created the rising tide of national feeling behind the passage of civil rights legislation, the legislation not only of 1965 but of 1964 and 1957. That feeling did so much to make the legislation possible. It has taken me scores of pages in my books to try to describe that heroism, and all of them inadequate. But it also took Lyndon Johnson, whom the black leader James Farmer, sitting in the Oval Office, heard ''cajoling, threatening, everything else, whatever was necessary'' to get the 1965 bill passed and who, with his legislative genius and savage will, broke, piece by piece, in 1957 and 1964 and 1965, the long unbreakable power of the Southern bloc. 
 ''Abraham Lincoln struck off the chains of black Americans,'' I have written, ''but it was Lyndon Johnson who led them into voting booths, closed democracy's sacred curtain behind them, placed their hands upon the lever that gave them a hold on their own destiny, made them, at last and forever, a true part of American political life.'' 
 LOOK what has been wrought! Forty-three years ago, a mere blink in history's eye, many black Americans were unable to vote. Tonight, a black American ascends a stage as nominee for president. ''Just give Negroes the vote and many of these problems will get better,'' Lyndon Johnson said. ''Just give them the vote,'' and they can do the rest for themselves. 
 All during this long primary campaign, after reading, first thing every morning, newspaper articles about Barack Obama's campaign for the presidency, I would turn, as part of the research for my next book, to newspaper articles from 1965 about Lyndon Johnson's campaign to win for black people the right to vote.
 And I would think about Johnson's great speech, when he adopted the rallying cry of black protest as his own, when he joined his voice to the voices of all the men and women who had sung the mighty hymn of the civil rights movement. Martin Luther King cried when he heard that speech. Since I am not black, I cannot know -- cannot even imagine -- Dr. King's feelings. I know mine, however. To me, Barack Obama is the inheritor of Lyndon Johnson's civil rights legacy. As I sit listening to Mr. Obama tonight, I will be hearing other words as well. I will be hearing Lyndon Johnson saying, ''We shall overcome.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Aug. 28, about Lyndon Johnson and civil rights, misstated the date of the last civil rights bill passed by Congress before Johnson became Senate majority leader. It was 1875, not 1870.
An Op-Ed article on Aug. 28, about Lyndon Johnson and civil rights, misstated the date of the last civil rights bill passed by Congress before Johnson became Senate majority leader. It was 1875, not 1870.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RONALD J. CALA II) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (88%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ELECTION LAW (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (63%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (60%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



703 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Obama's Moment

 BODY:
Barack Obama takes the stage Thursday night for the speech of his career after getting a big boost and a big challenge from his former rival, Hillary Clinton, former President Bill Clinton and Mr. Obama's running mate, Joseph Biden. 
 Senator Clinton's address, perhaps the best of her career, provided the long-awaited call for her supporters to back Senator Obama. It did something more: It offered the rousing case for the Democratic Party's core values and strengths that had been largely missing from the convention. 
 Mr. Obama needs to be just as clear about what he stands for, and about why -- in such dire times -- Americans should trust him and his party with their futures.
 On Tuesday night, Mrs. Clinton passionately argued that the Democratic Party believes in health care for all, progressive taxation, Social Security, fighting against poverty and for gay rights. The Republicans, she said, support a ''government where the privileged come first and everyone else comes last.''
 She said that Mr. Obama would ''end the war in Iraq responsibly.'' On that, like so many aspects of foreign policy, Mr. Obama and his opponent, Senator John McCain, have profoundly different visions that American voters need to understand in detail.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Biden and Mr. Clinton continued that argument, offering their rousing endorsements of Mr. Obama as commander in chief. 
 Mr. Clinton's speech was not just a reminder of how dazzling he can be, when he's not pouting. It offered a frightening vision of the many dangers this country faces -- global warming, nuclear proliferation, terrorism -- and how much its position has been weakened ''by too much unilateralism and too little cooperation.'' 
 He promised that Mr. Obama would ''work for an America with more partners and fewer adversaries,'' to share burdens and leverage its influence. He said that while Mr. Obama ''will choose diplomacy first and military force as a last resort,'' when he could not ''convert adversaries into partners, he will stand up to them.'' 
 Now that others have helped set the stage, Mr. Obama must demonstrate his own passion and policy mastery. He needs to show that he has his own plan for solving this country's many problems, from reviving the economy to rebuilding a broken military. That is especially true if Mr. Obama is to win the votes of moderate Republicans. Many recognize that President Bush's terms have been a disaster but still see the Democrats the way Republicans have painted them: the party of a weak defense and economy-killing taxes. 
 This country certainly can use true bipartisanship -- something it has not seen under Mr. Bush. But conventions, like elections, are partisan events, where candidates begin to define themselves for voters. At the 1932 Democratic convention, Franklin D. Roosevelt promised a ''New Deal.'' At the 1980 Republican convention, Ronald Reagan declared his revolution against ''overgrown and overweight'' government.
 Without such clear choices, elections end up where they are now, wars of attack ads with voters focused on labels and minutiae.
 Mr. Obama got to Denver in large measure on his ability to inspire Democratic voters. He has a strong case to make now against the Republicans' claim to be the party of prosperity at home and strength abroad. After eight years of President Bush, the country is neither prosperous at home nor respected abroad -- and increasingly not even feared. 
 But it is not enough to declare Mr. Bush's terms a disaster. Mr. Obama's task is to make the case unequivocally that his ideas and his party's ideas are the best way to recover from that disaster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); IRAQ WAR (66%); TERRORISM (63%); LGBT RIGHTS (53%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (91%); JOE BIDEN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



704 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Biden Opens New Phase With Attack On McCain

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware accepted the Democratic vice-presidential nomination on Wednesday night with an ode to his middle-class upbringing and a blistering attack on Senator John McCain.
 On tax policy and the war in Iraq, on health care and terrorism, on the minimum wage and on Russia, Mr. Biden said, the contrast was clear between Mr. McCain and the Democratic presidential nominee, Senator Barack Obama.
 ''Again and again,'' he said, ''on the most important national security issues of our time, John McCain was wrong, and Barack Obama was proven right.'' 
 He said Mr. McCain had supported President Bush's policies that Mr. Biden said had driven the American economy into a ditch and backed Mr. Bush on a war that is costing American taxpayers $12 billion a month.
 As Democrats often do, he paid tribute to Mr. McCain's military service and his more than five years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam. That is not sufficient qualification for the presidency, Mr. Biden said in as direct a way as any Democrat this year has.
 ''The choice in this election is clear,'' Mr. Biden said. ''These times require more than a good soldier. They require a wise leader,'' he said, a leader who can deliver ''the change that everybody knows we need.'' 
 Part of Mr. Biden's assignment on Wednesday night was to connect with struggling American families and to portray himself and Mr. Obama as products of the middle class who would fight to restore the American dream. He spoke lyrically of riding the train home to Wilmington, Del., every night and imagining the conversations in the homes he passed. 
 ''Like millions of Americans, they're asking questions as profound as they are ordinary,'' he said. ''Questions they never thought they would have to ask.'' Whether to bring an aging parent into their homes to save money. How to pay for gas and groceries. Whether to defer a college education. How to pay for retirement.
 Mr. Biden, who referred to his childhood struggle with stuttering, made a few verbal slips, including referring to Mr. McCain as ''George.''
 ''Freudian slip, folks,'' he said. ''Freudian slip.''
 The self-described ''kid from Scranton'' paid a moving tribute to his 90-year-old mother, Catherine Eugenia Finnegan Biden. He said she had taught him honor, loyalty and bravery. She also helped him overcome his stuttering, telling him, as he put it, ''it was because I was so bright I couldn't get the thoughts out quickly enough.''
 After his wife and daughter were killed in an auto accident, Mr. Biden said, ''she told me, 'Joey, God sends no cross you cannot bear.' And when I triumphed, she was quick to remind me it was because of others.''
 He added: ''My mother's creed is the American creed: No one is better than you. You are everyone's equal, and everyone is equal to you.''
 And in another apparent slip, he also referred to $200 million in taxes on corporations when he meant to say $200 billion in tax cuts for companies.
 But largely he fulfilled the mission the Obama campaign had assigned him: humanize himself and Mr. Obama, attack Mr. McCain, and present a familiar voice and message to the swing voters and conservative Democrats that Mr. Obama had difficulty courting during the primaries.
 He was introduced by his son Beau, 39, the attorney general of Delaware and an Army Reserve officer who is scheduled for deployment to Iraq in October.
 The younger Mr. Biden, a polished second-generation politician, delivered a fluid and moving testimony to his father's humanity, recalling the 1972 car accident that killed Mr. Biden's first wife and a young daughter.
 He moved many in the hall to tears in relating the story of the accident, which occurred between the time Mr. Biden was elected to the Senate and was sworn in to office.
 Many in Delaware expect the younger Biden to seek his father's Senate seat if the Obama-Biden ticket wins in November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (96%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FAMILY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); IRAQ WAR (72%); TERRORISM (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); MINIMUM WAGE (57%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); JOE BIDEN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (78%) DELAWARE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); VIET NAM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



705 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: The Torch Passes. Really.

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
 The torch gets passed to Barack Obama tonight. It would be more dramatic if there were somebody to do the passing, but the Democrats did not go to the trouble of renting a 75,000-seat stadium to bring up John Kerry. 
 All week, however, we've been having a long-running and complicated transfer of the first lady mantle from Hillary Clinton to Michelle Obama. ''No one has been more gracious and more forthcoming and more helpful to me,'' Michelle said at a joint appearance with Hillary on Tuesday. 
 Do we believe this? People, it doesn't matter a whit. The Clintons did everything they were supposed to do here and in politics, like so much of life, feelings are irrelevant to everyone except the persons doing the feeling.
 We're ready to move on. The Democrats in Denver have answered the call for unity with such alacrity that the party resembles one of those big amalgamated critters that are accidentally created at the beginning of Spider-Man movies.
 ''Stand shoulder to shoulder!'' urged Senator Barbara Mikulski before bringing the once and perhaps-future first ladies onstage. The large audience of women found it easy to comply, since the organizers had removed most of the chairs from the ballroom.
 Hillary looks 10 years younger than she did when she thought she was about to become the first woman president. She's developed this ... glow. It appears that not only does she possess superhuman resilience; she positively thrives on crushing disappointment.
 Michelle, on the other hand, has been looking slightly frayed. At the joint event, after the paean to Hillary, her speech went a little astray. Her mouth twitched and she seemed preoccupied with something else during her ritual call to reject the world as it is in favor of the world as it should be. 
 Preoccupation was entirely possible. Among the possible distractions were:
 1) Husband arriving soon to give one of the most high-stake speeches in the history of American politics in a football field.
 2) Teleprompter not working.
 3) Fifteen little girls about to hold a sleepover in her hotel room. 
 Truly, this is a woman with an interesting life. Her spouse is flying in to accept the presidential nomination and, meanwhile, Joe Biden's grandchildren are at the door in their pajamas.
 Michelle would be only the second working mother to become a first lady, and there's not all that much about Hillary's experience that offers much comfort. Clinton has had an extraordinary career, but I doubt that she'll look back at her White House years as the high point. It's a tricky business, representing independent modern women while not creating political pain for your spouse, made even trickier if you're an African-American who is almost 6 feet tall, possessed of stunning looks and a forceful personality. 
 Her signature issue is the job-family tensions of working women. This could actually be sort of revolutionary -- a first lady constantly pointing out that the American economy is built around the idea that wives and mothers work, but provides almost no answer to the question of who's supposed to take care of the kids. ''I've talked to so many women who feel guilty -- their kids are in child care longer than they're with their mom,'' Obama said Wednesday, on a break between appearances at the Hispanic caucus and the African-American caucus. She ran through a litany of parents working two shifts, military wives who keep getting transferred to bases with a long wait for day care and striving single mothers bowed down under college loan payments.
 One big difference between Hillary and Michelle is that Obama shies away from providing specific answers and sticks to the stories about the problems. ''I haven't explored what's been done, what hasn't been done,'' she says. ''We need good child care. How much structure I don't know. That's the policy piece; that isn't my forte.''
 And just as her husband has little patience with the culture wars of the Clintons' generation, Michelle has no interest in the mommy wars. She refuses to decry young women with Ivy League degrees who opt to use them on full-time motherhood or to worry that all the talk about the problems will discourage young women from trying to combine husband, kids and high-powered career. ''I was raised to believe I could do it all, and that was very empowering,'' she said. ''Then I got into the work force and realized there was really no support for me to do it all. ... We either have to fix that or be honest about it.''
 Her approach feels like a genuine preference, but, of course, it's also politically pragmatic. She reminds every audience that she's first and foremost a mom, albeit one who can bring home the bacon and fry it up in the pan. But if she comes under fire for being too soft, the Obama campaign headquarters will pass out Champagne. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); WOMEN (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (61%); WORKING MOTHERS (60%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOE BIDEN (58%); BARBARA MIKULSKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008



706 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Heralding New Course, Democrats Nominate Obama

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Kitty Bennett, John M. Broder and Janet Elder contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DENVER -- Barack Hussein Obama, a freshman senator who defeated the first family of Democratic Party politics with a call for a fundamentally new course in politics, was nominated by his party on Wednesday to be the 44th president of the United States.
The unanimous vote made Mr. Obama the first African-American to become a major party nominee for president. It brought to an end an often-bitter two-year political struggle for the nomination with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who, standing on a packed convention floor electric with anticipation, moved to halt the roll call in progress so that the convention could nominate Mr. Obama by acclamation. That it did with a succession of loud roars, followed by a swirl of dancing, embracing, high-fiving and chants of ''Yes, we can.''
In an effort to fully ease the lingering animosity from the primary season, former President Bill Clinton, in a speech that had been anxiously awaited by Mr. Obama's aides given the uncomfortable relations between the two men, offered an enthusiastic and unstinting endorsement of Mr. Obama's credentials to be president. Mr. Clinton's message, like the messenger, was greeted rapturously in the hall. 
''Last night Hillary told us in no uncertain terms that she is going to do everything she can to elect Barack Obama,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''That makes two of us.''
Mr. Clinton proceeded to do precisely what Mr. Obama's campaign was looking for him to do: attest to Mr. Obama's readiness to be president, after a campaign largely based on Mrs. Clinton's contention that he was not.
''I say to you: Barack Obama is ready to lead America and restore American leadership in the world,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''Barack Obama is ready to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. Barack Obama is ready to be president of the United States.''
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, Mr. Obama's choice for vice president, accepted the nomination with a speech in which he spoke frequently, and earnestly, of his blue-collar background, in effect offering himself as a validator for Mr. Obama among some voters who have been reluctant to embrace the Democratic presidential nominee.
He then turned to Senator John McCain, the likely Republican nominee, signaling how he would go after him in the campaign ahead. He referred to Mr. McCain as a friend -- ''I know you hear that phrase a lot in politics; I mean it,'' he said -- and then proceeded to offer a long and systematic case about why Mr. McCain should not be president.
''The choice in this election is clear,'' Mr. Biden said. ''These times require more than a good soldier. They require a wise leader,'' he said, a leader who can deliver ''the change that everybody knows we need.''
His 21-minute address completed, Mr. Biden was joined on stage by his wife, Jill, who told the crowd they were about to be joined by an unscheduled guest. The crowd exploded as Mr. Obama walked around the corner.
''If I'm not mistaken, Hillary Clinton rocked the house last night,'' he said, gazing up at where Mr. and Mrs. Clinton were watching the proceedings and leading the crowd in applause. ''And President Clinton reminded us of what it's like when you have a president who actually puts people first. Thank you.''
The historic nature of the moment quickly gave way to the political imperatives confronting Mr. Obama, who arrived here on Wednesday afternoon and is to accept the nomination Thursday night before a crowd of 75,000 people in a football stadium. After days in which the convention often seemed less about Mr. Obama than about the two families that have dominated Democratic politics for nearly a half-century, the Kennedys and the Clintons, he needed to convince voters that he has solutions to their economic anxieties and to rally his party against the reinvigorated candidacy of Mr. McCain.
The roll-call vote took place in the late afternoon Wednesday -- the first time in at least 50 years that Democrats have not scheduled their roll call on prime-time television -- as Democrats sought to avoid drawing attention to the lingering resentments between Clinton and Obama delegates. Yet the significance of the vote escaped no one, and sent a charge through the Pepsi Center as a procession of state delegations cast their votes and the hall, slightly empty at the beginning of the vote, became shoulder-to-shoulder with Democrats eager to witness this moment.
As planned, it fell to Mrs. Clinton to put Mr. Obama over the top. He was declared the party's nominee at 4:47 p.m. Mountain time after Mrs. Clinton, in a light blue suit standing out in a crowd that included almost every elected New York official, moved that the roll call be suspended and that Mr. Obama be declared the party's nominee by acclamation. The vote was timed to conclude during the network evening news broadcasts.
''With eyes firmly fixed on the future in the spirit of unity, with the goal of victory, with faith in our party and country, let's declare together in one voice, right here and right now, that Barack Obama is our candidate and he will be our president,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
''I move that Senator Barack Obama of Illinois be selected by this convention by acclamation as the nominee of the Democratic Party for president of the United States,'' she said.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, standing at the lectern, asked for a second and was greeted by a roar of voices. A louder roar came from the crowd when she asked for support of the motion.
When the voting was cut off, Mr. Obama had received 1,549 votes, compared with 231 for Mrs. Clinton.
The hall pulsed when Mr. Clinton strode onto the stage for a performance that became a reminder of why Democrats had considered him a politician with once-in-a-generation skills -- and suggested that for Democrats in this hall at least, Mr. Clinton may have survived a primary in which he was repeatedly criticized for the sharp tone he often used against Mr. Obama. Again and again, Mr. Clinton tried to quiet the crowd. Again and again, they ignored him.
''You all sit down, we have to get on with the show,'' he said.
Mr. Clinton arguably did a better job than Mrs. Clinton the night before in making the case for Mr. Obama, and pumped up a crowd at a convention that has often seemed listless. He even managed, amid all his praise, to slip in a reference to the reservations he voiced about Mr. Obama back when he was campaigning against him, suggesting that Mr. Biden was just what Mr. Obama needed.
''With Joe Biden's experience and wisdom, supporting Barack Obama's proven understanding, instincts and insight, America will have the national security leadership we need,'' he said.
And without mentioning Mr. McCain by name, he offered a sharp denunciation of him and the Republicans.
''The Republicans will nominate a good man who served our country heroically and suffered terribly in Vietnam,'' he said. ''He loves our country every bit as much as we all do. As a senator, he has shown his independence on several issues. But on the two great questions of this election, how to rebuild the American Dream and how to restore America's leadership in the world, he still embraces the extreme philosophy which has defined his party for more than 25 years.''
''They actually want us to reward them for the last eight years by giving them four more,'' he said. ''Let's send them a message that will echo from the Rockies all across America: Thanks, but no thanks.''
For all the good Mr. Clinton might have done for Mr. Obama on Wednesday night it marked the second night in a row that the Clintons had been the face of what was supposed to be Mr. Obama's convention. But when Mr. Obama walked out from backstage at the end of the night -- ''Hello, Democrats!'' -- he left little doubt about who was now the face of the Democratic party.
For Mr. Obama, the nomination -- seized from Mrs. Clinton, who just one year ago was viewed as the obvious favorite to win the nomination especially against an opponent with a scant political resume -- was a remarkable achievement in what has been a remarkable ascendance. It was less than four years ago that Mr. Obama, coming off of serving seven years as an Illinois state senator, became a member of the United States Senate. He is 47 years old, the son of a white mother from Kansas and a black father from Kenya.
Mr. Obama's nomination came 120 years after Frederick Douglass became the first African-American to have his name entered in nomination at a major party convention. Douglass received one vote at the Republican convention in Chicago in 1888.
Making the moment even more striking was the historical nature of Mrs. Clinton's candidacy. She was the third woman whose name has been entered as a candidate for president at a major party convention. As she moved to end the roll-call vote, some women in the hall could be seen wiping tears from their eyes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: June Van Ostern, a Virginia delegate, listened Wednesday as Hillary Rodham Clinton called for Barack Obama's nomination. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Beau Biden, the attorney general of Delaware, introduced his father, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., right. Senator Biden accepted the nomination for vice president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Former President Bill Clinton received a rapturous welcome Wednesday night from delegates at the convention. In his speech, Mr. Clinton praised his wife's campaign for the nomination. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOE BIDEN (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011



707 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM EUROPE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: A Hard Habit to Break, Even With Gas at $10 a Gallon

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
Ten dollars a gallon may seem unthinkable to American drivers still smarting from the spike in gas prices to around $4 a gallon. But that was nearly the price that Marco Annarumi faced recently when filling his Jeep on his way home from work. 
 ''It hasn't changed my driving at all -- not a bit -- I just have to work harder,'' he said with seeming indifference.
 High oil prices and high taxes on gas pushed the average price of gasoline to new heights in much of Europe this summer. Yet transportation experts in this laboratory of sky-high fuel prices say that many Europeans, out of necessity, habit or love, have proved surprisingly willing to bear the extra cost of driving. That raises questions as to how effective high prices by themselves can be in achieving the ambitious targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions that European leaders have committed themselves to meeting.
 Gas prices have persuaded some people to drive less. Traffic on the Eurostar train that links London and Paris was up 21 percent in the first three months of 2008. Gas purchases in Italy dropped 10 percent compared with the year before. Sales of gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles have plunged across the continent, just as they have in the United States. 
 But, at least so far, there are few signs of the wholesale shift away from current driving habits that environmental economists contend is needed for European countries to meet emissions control targets. The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says meeting the targets is crucial if the world is to prevent the worst effects of global warming. Rental car companies say their business is up this summer. Many consumers appear willing to economize in other parts of their lives -- eliminating vacations, movies, even birthday gifts -- before choosing not to drive. 
 ''We do see reports of a significant change in the types of cars people are buying, but I've been mostly surprised at the lack of a reaction,'' said Peder Jensen, a transportation expert at the European Union's European Environment Agency in Copenhagen. ''One had hoped that these prices would deter driving, but people have coped better than we hoped they would.''
 Although new car sales in both Europe and the United States have slumped this year, the number of cars per person has continued to rise, partly because many people now have more than one car, according to statistics from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
 Partly because of high gas prices here, European cars are already far more efficient than those sold in the United States. The average new European car gets 40 miles to the gallon, double the average for new cars sold in America. Even so, total carbon emissions from all forms of transportation in Europe are rising. They are about a quarter higher today than they were 20 years ago, while emissions from industry have declined in the same period.
 The European Union has committed to reducing its overall carbon dioxide emissions by at least 20 percent by 2020 and by half by 2050. To achieve those goals the region will have to curb auto emissions, most likely through changes in car design, fuel types, traffic control and driving habits.
 ''We believe that CO2 from personal transport has to be decreased in a holistic way, with contributions from all sectors -- no one thing will bring levels down,'' said Ivan Hodac, secretary general of the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association in Brussels. He said that if all sides cooperated, levels could come down 25 percent in the next five to seven years. 
 The industry is investing heavily in improving the fuel efficiency of conventional cars as well as in designing hybrids and vehicles powered by alternative fuels like electricity and hydrogen, Mr. Hodac said. But these design changes will take at least five years to come to market, and will not solve emissions problems on their own, he added.
 ''Everyone puts all the pressure on the manufacturers, and we're doing our part,'' he said. ''But others should do their part as well; nothing much has been done with driving, improving infrastructure.''
 For individuals, lowering transport emissions can involve choosing more efficient vehicles, using public transportation or bicycles, driving at the most fuel-efficient speeds, and avoiding trips in congested areas. Several years ago, the Netherlands instituted a program to promote such behaviors, achieving a modest emissions reduction. 
 Recent studies have shown that rising fuel prices have to be combined with government intervention to force lasting changes in the transportation choices that people make.
 Phil Goodwin, a professor of transportation policy at the University of West England, said research showed that a 10 percent increase in gas prices produced a 6 to 7 percent drop in fuel consumption over five years, because people drive less and switch to cars that are more fuel efficient.
 ''Price appears to be a highly effective way of influencing behavior,'' Professor Goodwin said. ''However,'' he added, ''price alone doesn't win popular support or acquiescence. There has to be a package of a variety of different policies, including improvements to public transport, walking and cycling.''
 In studies performed for the British government last year, Ben Lane, a transportation consultant based in London, found a ''very wide gap'' between people's attitude toward the environment and their willingness to change their driving behavior. 
 The costs of buying and using a car are ''weak but necessary'' factors in pushing people to lower their transportation emissions, he said. More effective are laws that charge people for driving based on the estimated emissions of their vehicles.
 Several years ago London instituted a hefty ''congestion charge'' for traditional vehicles entering the city center; hybrids and electric cars were exempt. Now, the London area has by far the greatest proportion of these alternative-fuel vehicles in the country, Dr. Lane said. 
 The resistance to changing driving behavior in part reflects practical problems in cities like Los Angeles and Rome, with poor public transportation. At a time of low fuel prices, people bought homes and accepted jobs in locations that required a car. Malls and offices are often built where land is cheap and there are few public transportation options.
 Moreover, some people seem to have the same cost-is-no-object attitude toward cars that they have toward health. Valerio Roselli, 27, who works for Warner Brothers in Rome, continues to drive his S.U.V. to drive to work even though he could readily use public transportation. Rome's buses are hot, erratic and overcrowded, he said.
 High fuel prices in Italy have forced many people to modify their habits, at least temporarily. Traffic dropped on the autostrada, a toll highway, by 2.5 percent between March and June. New car registrations are down 18.2 percent this year compared with last. Sales of Alfa Romeos have dropped by 27 percent. That may reflect the flailing economy here as well as high gas prices.
 Some experts say it may take a few years to see whether Europe and the United States are nearing a tipping point for fuel prices that could affect where people live and how they get around.
 ''People cope for a while, and then it is not until the next time they move home or job or other such 'life-events' that a new travel pattern emerges,'' Professor Goodwin said. ''So the effect on new car sales, month by month, of changes in fuel price will be quite damped. This has led some people tothink there is little or no effect, but that is probably wrong.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A traffic jam near Bologna, Italy. Gas purchases are down, but there are few signs of a shift in driving habits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIORGIO BENVENUTI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 A driver in Oslo paid the equivalent of almost $150 to fill his tank in July. Some experts say high prices alone will not cut carbon emissions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRULS BREKKE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); EMISSIONS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (87%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (78%); FUEL TAX (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); STATISTICS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



708 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: How We Spent Our Summer Staycation

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON

 BODY:
Neil Callahan is not a trendy guy. He is a 38-year-old police officer in the Bronx who roots for the Yankees, his hair cut high and tight. So when he plopped down in a lawn chair on the boardwalk of Orchard Beach during a recent week off, he had no idea he was sitting on the absolute cutting edge of the summer's cultural buzz saw. 
 ''I played dominoes,'' he recalled. ''Nothing crazy. Go to the movies. Yankee Stadium, City Island. Just stay local, basically.'' 
 Mr. Callahan did not know it, and would most likely not have told anyone had he known, but he was on ''staycation.'' Not vacation, staycation: the happy-face answer to high gas prices and the costs and miseries of air travel. 
 It is a ridiculous word, but that hasn't stopped the sprouting of so many Web sites with perky ''I N.Y.'' staycation ideas -- Circle Line, a museum visit, a tenement tour and bialy on the Lower East Side. 
 And, admittedly, it's a very fun word to say. Staycation. How was your staycation? My parents went on staycation, and all I got was this lousy T-shirt. Our son-in-law threw his back out on staycation. 
 As is so often the case, this new thing is nothing new in many parts of New York City. It's just that it was never named by those level-headed working men and women who do not need a tarted-up pseudoword to enjoy a nice week without work. They don't send postcards, and they don't take pictures, but in interviews in the Bronx and Queens this week, they shared what will have to pass for the scrapbooks of their 2008 summer staycations. 
 Brown Bino, 25, a cab dispatcher, was walking through Astoria Park near his home on Monday with his 3-year-old son, a smiling boy introduced as Little Brown Bino. 
 Mr. Bino frowned a suspicious ''what are you trying to say?'' frown when asked whether he was enjoying a staycation, but then he relaxed and described his recent time off. 
 ''I take a walk, you know what I mean?'' Mr. Bino said. ''I think about what I want to eat, because this area is all about restaurants.'' 
 He said he could not afford extravagant travel. ''We're in a recession, dude,'' he said. ''You heard?''
 He added: ''I'm a single parent. I want to do what I'm doing now, and then step out to a cafe and have a drink. Maybe meet some women.'' 
 Then, Little Brown Bino said he had to use a bathroom, and father and son hurried away. No pulling over at the next rest stop. Just trot behind a tree near the Triborough Bridge.
 Staycations do not start with a pretty girl wrapping a lei around your neck in Hawaii. They start with coffee and a roll on a park bench instead of on a subway platform. They start on the sofa the morning after two ''Gossip Girl'' discs and a box of wine. 
 Raymond Miles, 41, a grocery manager who lives in the Bronx, ended up on an unplanned staycation last week. He was supposed to fly to Jamaica, where he was born, but when his mother fell ill, he canceled the trip. His mother recovered, leaving Mr. Miles with a week and a day with nothing to do. 
 The staycation began last Friday. ''Just stayed in bed,'' he said. ''Don't go nowhere. Then at 2 or 3 o'clock, I had lunch. Then 4 or 5 o'clock, dinner. I watched Oprah, whatever, Judge Judy, which can be pretty boring, but after a while, I thought it was interesting, because I don't normally watch TV in the day.'' 
 Vacation: Monet and Manet at the Musee d'Orsay.
 Staycation: Judge Judy.
 On Saturday and Sunday, Mr. Miles did a bit of fishing with his buddy and helped his brother lay some tile, typical weekend stuff. Then, on Monday, it was back to staycation mode, in bed again watching his new favorite judge. Not exactly a scene from a souvenir-shop snow globe. 
 ''I was in bed so long, my back started to hurt,'' he said. 
 One might say that Mr. Miles needed a staycation from his staycation, but he had no ideas.
 ''All my friends are working,'' he said. ''My girlfriend is working.'' 
 He finally broke up the day by stepping outdoors for a lottery ticket. Then he returned home.
 ''I started thinking what my vacation would be like, how I planned it, in Jamaica,'' he said. ''But your mom comes first.'' 
 He decided to find the closest beach, and there he was on Tuesday, leaning against a wall at Orchard Beach, sipping a beer and watching the dark blue water. He is a good swimmer, but he believes that people are more likely to drown in dark blue water than light blue water like Jamaica's because the lifeguard cannot see them as clearly. So he nibbled on his chicken-on-a-stick and described the last three hours, something of an extreme staycation. 
 ''I haven't moved,'' he said. ''Self-control. Why come here and run from Point A to Point B when I can stay right here?'' 
 Back in Astoria, the Mondello family dug into fat deli hero sandwiches on a park bench on Monday, a mother, father and twin boys enjoying their last day as 11-year-olds. The couple's three daughters, ages 16, 23 and 25, were at school or working. The mother, Eileen, was beginning a weeklong staycation that she requested at the beginning of the year at St. John's Queens Hospital, where she is a nurse. The father, John, a police officer in Manhattan, was enjoying his regular day off.
 ''When you have a large family,'' Mrs. Mondello said, ''sometimes you schedule, and you don't have anything planned. We stopped at our favorite deli, Sal, Chris and Charlie's.''
 She added that they played two-on-two basketball and planned to stop at Toys ''R'' Us to let the boys pick out a birthday gift. ''We'll probably have a little dinner in the backyard,'' she said. ''Maybe a barbecue.''
 On Tuesday, the Mondello family competed in a Wii bowling tournament in their living room. Wednesday found them in Times Square in yet another Toys ''R'' Us, hunting for a birthday bicycle for one of the boys in a hard-to-find size. Still no luck, but Mrs. Mondello found one later that day in College Point. On Thursday morning, she took her three youngest children to the pediatrician for their regular checkups. 
 The staycation was timed with the approaching school year in mind. 
 ''I just want to get them back on an early bedtime routine and get them into some heavy-duty reading,'' Mrs. Mondello said. 
 Asked if there were any special plans, she said no, not really, but then: ''My oldest daughter has a boyfriend who has a boat. I was just thinking about that. Maybe we'll go out on his boat.'' 
 Michael Bombardiere, 46, an electrician who lives in Hicksville but grew up in Astoria, said he likes to bring his son, Mike, 11, along on staycation outings to the old neighborhood. (''It gives him a chance to see things that are right in front of his face.'') 
 His modest tour will not likely appear in any Lonely Planet guide, but it includes all of Mr. Bombardiere's personal milestones. There, he pointed along the East River, is where he met his wife. There, 100 feet away, is where they had their first drink on their wedding day. Next up, an uncle on 21st Street and a buddy's restaurant for lunch. 
 ''This is something he should know, you know what I mean?'' Mr. Bombardiere said. 
 Mr. Callahan, the Bronx police officer, said he liked the stress-free side of staying home. ''I went to Atlantic City a couple of weeks ago,'' he said. ''Took me four hours, with all the traffic.'' 
 He has a week's staycation starting Monday. Nothing fancy: ''Barbecue at home. Go to the pub. I'll probably just come out here, play some dominoes.''
 Mr. Miles, looking at three more days with his mother and Judge Judy before the three-day Labor Day weekend, seemed at an utter loss. 
 Wednesday? ''I'll definitely stay home,'' he said. 
 Thursday? ''I can't tell you now,'' he said. Maybe a little more fishing, or dinner out with his girlfriend. 
 ''I don't have anything planned,'' he said of the staycation that, to borrow a phrase, was all he never wanted. ''Anything could come up.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Staying home, and together: The Mondello family of Astoria, Queens (Eileen, a nurse
John, a police officer
sons Kevin and John and daughters Bridget, Dianne and Melissa).
Raymond Miles of the Bronx canceled a trip when his mother fell ill, but there was still time for a quick visit to Orchard Beach.
 Neil Callahan, left, a police officer, likes a game of dominoes with friends and the low-stress aspect of staying close to home.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC TOURISM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RESTAURANTS (84%); MEN (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); WOMEN WORKERS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); SINGLE PARENTS (66%); INTERVIEWS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



709 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2547 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'AMERICAN TEEN' (PG-13, 1:35) Five high school seniors from Warsaw, Ind., share their lives with the cameras in Nanette Burstein's fascinating, slightly fishy documentary, which prefers teen-movie conventions and stereotypes to real social insight. (A. O. Scott) 
 'ANITA O'DAY: THE LIFE OF A JAZZ SINGER' (No rating, 1:32) This documentary about the great jazz singer who died in 2006 is a portrait of a woman who always lived by her own rules. Her total disregard for convention applied as much to singing as to her spectacularly messy life. 
 (Stephen Holden) 
 'BACHNA AE HASEENO' (No rating, 2:35, in Hindi) After just one (failed) movie, Ranbir Kapoor was anointed a star. In ''Bachna,'' his second, he plays a cad who woos three women, which leads to heartache, remorse and redemption. Mr. Kapoor's sweetness doesn't quite suit the Don Juan role, but he charms when contrite. Bipasha Basu adds some comic spice as a pampered, ill-tempered movie star. (Rachel Saltz)
 'BEAUTIFUL LOSERS' (No rating, 1:30) This fawning, self-serving documentary is directed by Aaron Rose, features Aaron Rose and is concerned with a group of middling, quasi-countercultural artists affiliated with a gallery founded by -- guess who? -- Aaron Rose. (Nathan Lee)
 'BRIDESHEAD REVISITED' (PG-13, 2:00) Pointless and pretty, this revisiting of Evelyn Waugh's reactionary valentine to interwar Britain gets nearly everything wrong but the costumes. (Scott)
 'THE DARK KNIGHT' (PG-13, 2:32) Pitched at the divide between poetry and entertainment, Christopher Nolan's follow-up to ''Batman Begins'' goes darker and deeper than any Hollywood movie of its comic-book kind. With Christian Bale as the big bat and a spellbinding Heath Ledger as the smiler with the knives.
 (Manohla Dargis)
 'DEATH RACE' (R, 1:29) Finally, neo-grindhouse done right. Weapon-toting, obscenity-spewing criminals chase one another around a greasy junkyard in a monster car race to the flamboyantly nasty death. Co-starring Joan Allen! (Lee)
 'ELEGY' (R, 1:48) Ben Kingsley and a radiant Penelope Cruz star in Isabel Coixet's polite take on Philip Roth's insistently impolite short novel ''The Dying Animal.'' (Dargis)
 'FLY ME TO THE MOON' (G, 1:30) Three flies stow away on Apollo 11 in this animated feature created start to finish expressly for 3-D. But not, alas, for pleasure or art. (Lee)
 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing deep into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. 
 (Holden)
 'A GIRL CUT IN TWO' (No rating, 1:50, in French) A rich, textured divertissement from Claude Chabrol, a sinister master of the art, who here returns to elegant, tight form with a beautifully directed story of a woman (Ludivine Sagnier) preyed upon by different men (Francois Berleand, Benoit Magimel) and her own warring desires. (Dargis)
 'GONZO: THE LIFE AND WORK OF DR. HUNTER S. THOMPSON' (R, 1:58) Alex Gibney's documentary is a thorough and fascinating illumination of its subject, the journalistic iconoclast who died in 2005. (Scott)
 'HAMLET 2' (R, 1:32) This comedy about a high school drama teacher in Tucson belongs to the school of free-for-all satiric farce whose creators ball up wads of ideas, apply chewing gum and hurl them against the wall to see what sticks. Enough of the jokes cling to make the movie intermittently funny. (Holden)
 'HANCOCK' (PG-13, 1:32) Will Smith stars in this unexpectedly satisfying and kinky addition to Hollywood's superhero chronicles. Peter Berg directs, and Charlize Theron provides the tastiest surprises. (Dargis) 
 'HELLBOY: THE GOLDEN ARMY' (PG-13, 1:50) Guillermo del Toro, returning to the Hellboy franchise after ''Pan's Labyrinth,'' indulges his knack for conjuring weird and memorable creatures of every shape, size and temperament. Abundance trumps coherence, and this movie, with Ron Perlman as the grouchy red hero and Selma Blair as his fiery lover, is a bit of a mess. But it can also be a lot of fun. (Scott) 
 'THE HOUSE BUNNY' (PG-13, 1:37) Anna Faris proves herself a fake bimbo par excellence in this breezy, ditzy comedy about a Playboy bunny who goes back to school. (Lee)
 'I.O.U.S.A.' (PG, 1:30) Tackling the unsexy topic of our soaring national debt, Patrick Creadon's resolutely nonpartisan documentary tracks America's ''fiscal cancer'' through centuries of budgetary highs and lows. Equal parts enlightening and alarming, it balances its talking heads and pie charts with the folksy progress of the Fiscal Wake-up Tour, a grass-roots effort urging Americans to save rather than spend. Good luck with that. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
 'THE LAST MISTRESS' (No rating, 1:54, in French) An enthralling, often raw inquiry into cursed desire from the French writer and director Catherine Breillat, based on a 19th-century novel by Jules Barbey d'Aurevilly. A mesmerizing Asia Argento plays the mercurial courtesan who won't say no, and the luscious newcomer Fu'ad Ait Aattou plays the noble libertine who can't. (Dargis)
 'THE LONGSHOTS' (PG, 1:26) Bookish girl teams up with loser uncle to transform a useless high school football team into champions. Fred Durst of Limp Bizkit fame directs what may be the most formulaic movie ever made. (Lee)
 'MAMMA MIA!' (PG-13, 1:48) Adapted from the stage musical and featuring a cast of super troupers belting out Abba hits, this movie is hard not to enjoy, which doesn't mean it's any good. (Scott) 
 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'MIRRORS' (R, 1:51) This minor chiller from Alexandre Aja features Kiefer Sutherland as an alcoholic ex-cop guarding the ruins of a burned-out department store whose spooky mirrors manipulate his reflection -- rather horribly, as it turns out. Though he offers several cringeworthy set pieces, Mr. Aja blows his entire Windex budget on an overcomplicated second half of amplified effects and diminishing returns. (Catsoulis) 
 'MOMMA'S MAN' (No rating, 1:34) A touchingly true film, part weepie, part comedy, about the agonies of navigating that slippery slope called adulthood. The young writer, director and erstwhile New Yorker Azazel Jacobs tapped his downtown bohemian parents -- the avant-garde filmmaker Ken Jacobs and the artist Flo Jacobs -- to play the parents of the young man (Matt Boren) who comes home again. (Dargis)
 'THE MUMMY: TOMB OF THE DRAGON EMPEROR' (PG-13, 1:53) The third and weakest installment of the ''Mummy'' franchise is an expensive but incoherent mess. (Holden)
 'PATTI SMITH: DREAM OF LIFE' (No rating, 1:49) You may not learn everything you want to know about this punk godhead in Steven Sebring's impressionistic portrait -- a lovely, drifty first feature that feels less like a documentary and more like an act of rapturous devotion -- but you learn just about everything you need. (Dargis)
 'PINEAPPLE EXPRESS' (R, 1:51) In the tradition of Cheech & Chong, Abbott and Costello, Hope and Crosby, Ricky and Lucy, Martin and Lewis, Rowan and Martin, Spicoli and Hand, Riggs and Murtaugh, dumb and dumber, right brain and left, peanut butter and jelly, bong hit and roach clip comes a stoner comedy that partakes of a gentle indie vibe before hitting the hard stuff. David Gordon Green directs; Seth Rogen and James Franco star. (Dargis)
 'RICHARD SERRA: THINKING ON YOUR FEET' (No rating, 1:34) As static and unadorned as the sculptures at its center, ''Richard Serra: Thinking on Your Feet'' follows the construction and 2005 installation of ''The Matter of Time,'' Mr. Serra's gigantic eight-piece commission for the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain. The style may be minimalist, but the vision is gargantuan. (Catsoulis)
 'THE ROCKER' (PG-13, 1:42) This rock 'n' roll comedy has its witty moments, but it is encrusted in rock lore and stale attitudinizing borrowed from ''This Is Spinal Tap,'' and ''School of Rock,'' far superior movies that it shamelessly cannibalizes. (Holden)
 'SINGH IS KINNG' (No rating, 2:35, in Hindi) This hyped-up action comedy broke box-office records in India, a testament to the appeal of its star, Akshay Kumar, who shines as a bumbling villager with a surfeit of good intentions. He's a Capraesque hero who spreads Indian values by example, most conspicuously as the accidental leader of a feared crime gang in Australia. And -- Bollywood crossover dreams, anybody? -- Snoop Dogg raps in a remix of the title song at the end. (Saltz)
 'THE SISTERHOOD OF THE TRAVELING PANTS 2' (PG-13, 1:57) In this rambling sequel to a 2005 hit, four friends, now entering college, are symbolic cheerleaders for personal loyalty and wholesome living; the movie is an upbeat alternative to ''The Hills'' and its ilk. (Holden)
 'SIXTY SIX' (PG-13, 1:33) In this dolorous British comedy, a 12-year-old boy sees his dreams of an elaborate bar mitzvah jeopardized by England's triumphant march toward the 1966 World Cup final. Leaning heavily, if inoffensively, on ethnic stereotypes, the movie charts a sentimental struggle toward manhood with period-appropriate charm. (Catsoulis)
 'SPACE CHIMPS' (G, 1:21) A pretty good G-rated story about chimps in outer space, with a lot of droll grown-up jokes slipped in. The animated leads are cute, and the voice actors, among them Andy Samberg, Cheryl Hines and Patrick Warburton, are in top form. (Neil Genzlinger) 
 'STAR WARS: THE CLONE WARS' (PG, 1:35) As a mechanical thrill ride, this digitally animated ''Star Wars'' saga is more or less as satisfying its blockbuster predecessors. As a movie, it completes the franchise's slow divorce from photography-based cinema as well as any relationship to credible human feeling. (Lee)
 'STEP BROTHERS' (R, 1:33) Yet another Judd Apatow factory production pegged to the spectacle and pathos of the sexually stunted, immature male. Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly star, and Adam McKay directs. (Dargis) 
 'TELL NO ONE' (No rating, 2:05, in French) In the shortcut language of a movie pitch, Guillaume Canet's delicious contemporary thriller is ''Vertigo'' meets ''The Fugitive'' by way of ''The Big Sleep.'' This French adaptation of Harlan Coben's 2001 best seller is the kind of conspiracy-minded mystery almost no one seems capable of creating anymore, except David Lynch in his surreal way. Beautifully written and acted, it is a labyrinth in which to get deliriously lost. (Holden) 
 'TROPIC THUNDER' (R, 1:47) A flashy, nasty, on-and-off funny and assaultive sendup of the film industry, directed by Ben Stiller, who stars alongside Robert Downey Jr. (in blackface) and Jack Black (in itty- bitty bikini underwear). (Dargis)
 'TROUBLE THE WATER' (No rating, 1:33) While making this superb documentary about that natural and unnatural disaster, Hurricane Katrina, the filmmakers Carl Deal and Tia Lessin hit the jackpot when they meet two New Orleans survivors, Kimberly and Scott Roberts, who rode out the storm with a video camera. (Dargis) 
 'VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA' (PG-13, 1:36) A rueful comedy from Woody Allen about two young American women (Scarlett Johansson and Rebecca Hall) who, during a summertime European idyll, savor numerous Continental delicacies, some provided by the equally alluring Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz. (Dargis)
 'WALL-E' (G, 1:37) The latest Pixar movie is many things: a silent comedy, a robot love story, a cautionary science fiction parable. Also a masterpiece. (Scott)
 'THE X-FILES: I WANT TO BELIEVE' (PG-13, 1:44) David Duchovny, Gillian Anderson and Chris Carter re-enter the twilight zone in this baggy, draggy, oddly timed and strangely off-the-mark follow-up to the show's superior first big-screen incarnation. (Dargis)
 Film Series
 CINEMATIC ATLAS: THE TRIUMPHS OF CHARLTON HESTON (Friday through Thursday) The Film Society of Lincoln Center pays tribute to Heston, who died this year, with a selection from his wide-ranging filmography, including Oscar-scale epics (''Ben-Hur,'' ''The Greatest Show on Earth''), modest genre exercises (''Earthquake,'' ''The Omega Man,'' ''Soylent Green'') and a pair of well-regarded films that owe their existence to Heston's influence, Sam Peckinpah's ''Major Dundee'' (screening Saturday and Wednesday) and Orson Welles's ''Touch of Evil'' (Friday and Thursday). Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 975-5600, filmlinc.org; $11. (Dave Kehr)
 A FOUR-PACK OF CARPENTER (Monday through Thursday) A man happy in his work, John Carpenter continues to assemble the same sort of small-scale, superbly constructed genre films with which he first made his reputation in the 1970s (most famously with ''Halloween'' in 1978). This brief retrospective at the Brooklyn Academy of Music includes four rarely screened features: the 1986 adventure spoof ''Big Trouble in Little China'' (Monday). Carpenter's radically reconfigured 1982 remake of ''The Thing'' (Tuesday). the paranoid 1988 political thriller ''They Live'' (Wednesday) and 1981's influential postapocalyptic thriller ''Escape From New York'' (Thursday). BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $11. (Kehr)
 'MONDO HOLLYWOOD' (Friday through Sunday) This week's installment in ''Riot on Sunset Strip: Rock, Rebellion and Hollywood Hippies,'' a midnight series devoted to West Coast visions of the late 1960s, continues with a rare screening of this 1967 documentary by Robert Carl Cohen. It's less an exploitation film, as the title might suggest, than an anthropological survey, offering an overview of the exotic fads then gripping Los Angeles -- crazy stuff like yoga and vegetarianism. Among the talking heads are Frank Zappa, Richard Alpert, Rudi Gernreich and, through an awful coincidence, both the Manson gang member Bobby Beausoleil and the Manson gang victim Jay Sebring. Mr. Cohen will be present for the screening. IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771, ifccenter.com; $10.75. (Kehr)
 CHRIS SMITH: AMERICAN ORIGINAL (Friday through Monday) Shuttling between fiction (''American Job,'' 1996) and documentary (''American Movie,'' 1999; ''Home Movie,'' 2001), the filmmaker Chris Smith has developed a detached, lightly ironic style devoid of the voyeuristic cruelty that characterizes so many contemporary visions of American life. Lately he has expanded his scope beyond this continent, to include a look at an international protest group in ''The Yes Men'' (2003). This retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art will feature all five of Mr. Smith's features, including a preview of his latest, ''The Pool,'' a drama set in Goa, India, about a local boy who finds work in a tourist hotel. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); FILM GENRES (79%); CELEBRITIES (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); POETRY (61%)

PERSON: HEATH LEDGER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



710 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Regional Security Group Takes a Neutral Stance on Russia's Actions in Georgia

BYLINE: By DAVID L. STERN; Stephen Castle contributed reporting from Brussels.

DATELINE: DUSHANBE, Tajikistan 

 BODY:
Russia suffered a significant setback here on Thursday, as members of a regional security group in which the Kremlin plays an important role offered little support for Moscow's military action in Georgia.
 Dmitri A. Medvedev, the Russian president, came to this Central Asian capital for the annual summit meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, or S.C.O., with the hopes that the six-member group would provide the strong international backing the Kremlin has so far lacked after its incursion into Georgia. Russia has urged other nations to follow its lead and recognize Georgia's breakaway regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent states.
 Instead, the Shanghai organization, which also includes China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, took a neutral stance, urging Russia and Georgia to resolve their differences peacefully.
 ''The S.C.O. states express grave concern in connection with the recent tensions around the South Ossetia issue and urge the sides to solve existing problems peacefully, through dialogue, and to make efforts facilitating reconciliation and talks,'' the summit meeting's final joint declaration said. 
 Mr. Medvedev, attending his first major diplomatic event since the conflict in Georgia, put a positive spin on the proceedings, saying that the Shanghai organization had in fact supported Russia in its actions and sent a ''strong signal.''
 ''I am sure that the united position of the S.C.O. member states will have international resonance,'' the Russian leader said, adding: ''It is well known who helped Georgian authorities and even encouraged them in pursuit of their own mercenary aims.''
 He was apparently referring to the United States, which has backed President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia.
 The Shanghai organization's leaders did endorse an aspect of Russia's involvement in the Caucasus, saying it approved of ''the active role of Russia in assisting in peace and cooperation in the region.'' However, it also underscored the importance of territorial integrity -- a statement that could be applied to Georgia's struggle with its breakaway regions.
 The presidents of the member countries reaffirmed their commitment to ''efforts aimed at preserving the unity of a state and its territorial integrity,'' the statement said.
 The lack of consensus over Russia's role in Georgia exposes a crucial divergence between China and Russia. The two powers, which have both enjoyed strong economic growth under authoritarian leadership, have cooperated closely on international issues in recent years and have on occasion joined forces to limit the influence of the United States in world affairs.
 But China split with the Soviet Union during the cold war over control of international Communism, and the two fought a border war in 1969. China, which has often stressed that its own emergence as a great power should not be viewed as posing a threat, shows few signs of encouraging Russia to project military power abroad. 
 Beijing's foreign policy continues to emphasize the inviolable sovereignty of nation states, and the country often condemns American overseas military actions. On Wednesday, China expressed ''concern'' over Russia's actions in Georgia, which Russia had argued were essential to preventing Georgian aggression against South Ossetia.
 The Shanghai organization was created seven years ago to foster cooperation and combat terrorism. It has mostly focused on delineating borders and increasing dialogue between China and the former Soviet republics, which China sees as helpful in its attempts to quell unrest among Uighur Muslims in its western region of Xinjiang.
 The Shanghai organization members conduct joint military exercises, and analysts say that the group has aspirations to become more substantive, possibly even becoming a counterweight to NATO. But so far it has not demonstrated the tight military or political coordination of NATO.
 The majority of its joint decisions remain on paper, partly because of continuing divisions among its members. In addition to the Russia-China divide, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, as well as Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, have had difficulty reaching a consensus on many issues.
 In 2005, the Shanghai organization took an unexpectedly sharp position against the United States, calling for a timetable for American forces to vacate Central Asian bases that the Pentagon had used for operations in nearby Afghanistan. 
 Before the Georgian conflict, Russia's star was steadily rising in the region. The Kremlin has used a combination of hardball politics and multimillion-dollar gas agreements with local governments to cement its position.
 Last year, Vladimir V. Putin, Russia's president at the time and now its prime minister, lashed out at what he described as Washington's unilateral foreign policy, while Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, whose country holds observer status in the group, criticized American plans for a missile defense shield in Eastern Europe.
 But this year, the group's internal divisions were clearly on display.
 Not one head of state mentioned the conflict in Georgia in his prepared remarks, indicating a general discomfort with the issue. Moreover, though South Ossetia was mentioned in the joint declaration, it was absent from the final communique.
 Although the Central Asian states of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan fall within what Moscow considers its sphere of influence, and all seem to accept Russian hegemony to a certain degree, they nevertheless strive to limit Moscow's reach and preserve their own independence of action.
 ''It would have been very important to have gotten direct support from these states, which very closely work and depend on Russia, but Moscow didn't get any support aside from general statements,'' said Nikolay Petrov, an expert in Russian politics with the Carnegie Moscow Center. He added that the Central Asian states' refusal to overtly back Moscow was an indication of the ''limits of Russia's influence.''
 In the tug of war between Russia's desire to secure international backing and China's fear of encouraging any separatist movements, the Chinese position apparently won out. Beijing is concerned not only about Xinjiang but also about an independence movement in Taiwan, which it claims as a renegade province, and the claims for greater autonomy in Tibet.
 ''Even if it is eager to support Russia in its conflict with the West -- and this is not clear -- China is not eager to somehow put at risk its own problems with succession and regions,'' Mr. Petrov said.
 In Brussels on Thursday, the European Union's top diplomats agreed to increase help to Georgia but shied away from threats to impose tough sanctions against Moscow. Four hours of discussions ended with an agreement to review relations with Russia, condemn its actions in Georgia and insist that business cannot continue as usual.
 However, there was no consensus on whether to postpone discussions on a new partnership agreement with Russia, scheduled for Sept. 16. When they meet on Monday, European leaders will consider whether to proceed -- but several nations insisted on Thursday that Moscow should not be isolated.
 Reliant on Russia for much of its energy needs, the European Union knows it has limited leverage over Moscow, and experts have warned that most potential sanctions would prove ineffectual, or even counterproductive. Nevertheless, several of the former Communist countries of Eastern Europe are pushing for a tougher line against Moscow.
 The United Nations Security Council on Thursday refused to approve a request from representatives of the two Georgian breakaway regions, which Russia has recognized as independent states, to address the council, Reuters reported.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The presidents of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization's member states with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, at right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKHAIL KLIMENTYEV/RIA NOVOSTI, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); COLD WAR (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SHANGHAI COOPERATION ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (59%); HAMAD KARZAI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) EAST CHINA (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (95%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (92%); TAJIKISTAN (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



711 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: California Moves on Bill to Curb Sprawl and Emissions

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
California, known for its far-ranging suburbs and jam-packed traffic, is close to adopting a law intended to slow the increase in emissions of heat-trapping gases by encouraging housing close to job sites, rail lines and bus stops to shorten the time people spend in their cars. 
 The measure, which the State Assembly passed on Monday and awaits final approval by the Senate, would be the nation's most comprehensive effort to reduce sprawl. It would loosely tie tens of billions of dollars in state and federal transportation subsidies to cities' and counties' compliance with efforts to slow the inexorable increase in driving. The goal is to encourage housing near current development and to reduce commutes to work. 
 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, has not said whether he will sign the bill.
 The number of miles driven in California has increased at a rate 50 percent faster than the rate of population growth for the past two decades. Passenger vehicles, which produce about 30 percent of the state's heat-trapping gases, are the single greatest source of such emissions.
 The fragile coalition behind the measure includes some longtime antagonists, in particular homebuilders and leading environmental groups in California. Both called the measure historic.
 ''What California is doing for the first time,'' said Ed Manning, a lobbyist who represents the state's 25 largest homebuilding companies, ''is planning for housing needs, transportation needs and climate-change needs all at the same time.''
 Thomas Adams, the board president of California's League of Conservation Voters, said the changes were ''all going to support a development pattern that will help the state meet its climate goals.'' 
 The bill yokes three regulatory and permit processes. One focuses on regional planning: how land use should be split among industry, agriculture, homes, open space and commercial centers. Another governs where roads and bridges are built. A third sets out housing needs and responsibilities -- for instance, how much affordable housing a community must allow.
 Under the pending measure, the three regulatory and permit processes must be synchronized to meet new goals, set by the state's Air Resources Board, to reduce heat-trapping gases. 
 Seventeen regional planning groups from across the state will submit their land-use, transportation and housing plans to the board. If the board rules that a plan will fall short of its emissions targets, then an alternative blueprint for meeting the goals must be developed.
 Once state approval is granted, or an alternative plan submitted, billions of dollars in state and federal transportation subsidies can be awarded. The law would allow the money to be distributed even if an alternative plan fails to pass muster. 
 State Senator Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat who is sponsoring the bill, said in an interview that he expected the Senate to approve the bill soon. 
 Mr. Steinberg, who will be the Senate majority leader in the legislative session beginning next year, said Wednesday that he met with Governor Schwarzenegger this week and received ''positive signals, no guarantees.'' 
 Environmentalists have long blamed profit-driven land-use planning around the country for creating the expansive, sometimes redundant network of roads that have carved up farmland near urban areas. 
 They have also praised regional planners in Portland, Ore., for that city's clustered growth and pedestrian- and bicycle-friendly communities.
 The tools Portland planners have used are called urban growth boundaries, efforts to control sprawl by encouraging higher density development within an area and largely prohibiting it outside. 
 These boundaries have gained little traction in California, where developers have seen them as too restrictive and local governments have been jealous of their own planning powers.
 Sacramento and San Diego have recently tried to build coalitions to support clustered development. 
 Most environmental groups strongly support the pending bill. Among them is the Natural Resources Defense Council, a major force in the development two years ago of the landmark state law to limit heat-trapping emissions from all sectors of the economy. 
 But some groups have expressed reservations, objecting to the relaxation of some existing environmental constraints on developers.
 Jan Chatten-Brown, an environmental lawyer in Santa Monica, wrote in an e-mail message that the bill ''gives up an important tool'' by relaxing some requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act and making it harder for citizen groups to sue developers.
 Communities that take part in the process will be able to revise their housing plans every eight years instead of five; developers working with a state-approved plan will have to do less extensive environmental reviews of their projects. 
 Ms. Chatten-Brown also said the legislation overlapped with some of the provisions of the 2006 law committing the state, by 2020, to a 30 percent reduction in the projected level of emissions of heat-trapping gases. 
 The Natural Resources Defense Council and the League of Conservation Voters estimate that $15 billion to $20 billion in annual federal, state and local transportation grants support highways, bridges, bike paths and light-rail systems. 
 Because there is no assurance that regions would lose transportation dollars if their plans fail to win state approval, a few environmental groups stayed in a neutral corner.
 But Mr. Adams, with the League of Conservation Voters, said that ''a land-use bill of this magnitude had not been successful since the 1976 passage of the California Coastal Act.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Development in Orange County, Calif., near Los Angeles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES)
 Rush-hour traffic on Interstate 405 in Los Angeles. A bill in the California Legislature would promote housing patterns intended to slow the increase in emissions of heat-trapping gases.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); LOBBYING (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); INTERVIEWS (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



712 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: Coming Home to Roost

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
Fannie Mae's workers had $116 million in the employee stock ownership plan at the end of 2006. Today, it's more like $17.5 million. Ouch.
 The employees of Fannie Mae, and those of its counterpart Freddie Mac, are reeling from financial blows themselves as the mortgage finance companies lurch toward what could be a government bailout. Both firms ladled out hefty servings of stocks and options to reward and compensate employees -- making them popular employers for years.
 The top executive of Freddie Mac, Richard F. Syron, for instance, made about $18.3 million last year, two-thirds of that in stock and options that are worth a lot less today. His counterpart at Fannie Mae, Daniel H. Mudd, made $11.6 million, also much of it in stock.
 But midlevel employees were paid in stock, too. Stock and options could account for a fifth of their total compensation, according to former employees and financial planners. Their ability to sell and diversify was often limited by restrictions on the grants, the terms of the specific plans and tighter rules on selling by employees while they addressed years-earlier accounting scandals. 
 For decades, both companies offered lush benefits, with traditional pension plans, 401(k)s, stock plans and other niceties, like child care plans. That means many employees still have a safety net, though their savings have declined, drastically in some cases.
 ''If it can happen to Fannie or Freddie, it can happen anywhere,'' said Marjorie L. Fox, a certified financial planner in Reston, Va. ''This is a cautionary tale you better pay attention to.''
 For those people participating in the employee stock ownership plans, known as ESOPs, at Fannie Mae -- Freddie Mac did not have one -- they could do little but watch this year as the stock lost more than three-quarters of its value. In a lament echoing the fallen share prices at other firms like Bear Stearns, employees discovered their stock was essentially locked up. The Fannie Mae plan, to which the company stopped making contributions last year, invests in company stock, allowing diversification to begin only at age 55. 
 Still, former employees and financial planners say workers have probably been hurt more severely by their holdings of stock and options outside of retirement plans. 
 Richard K. Green, who was a principal economist and a director of financial strategy and policy analysis at Freddie Mac from late 2002 to early 2004, said that about 20 percent of his total compensation was in stock options. 
 ''It's my understanding that for a fair number of people, it was an important part of their retirement planning,'' he said. ''If you joined in the '80s, you did fairly well. But if you joined in the last 10 years or so, those options wouldn't be worth a whole lot to you.''
 Furthermore, both companies tightened restrictions on trading of company stock by employees while working to correct a series of accounting misstatements. Fannie Mae barred employees from selling shares -- or buying them -- from April 2005 to November of last year. 
 Freddie Mac limited employee trading of its stock beginning in June 2003, periodically allowing workers to sell shares during brief windows. Those restrictions were relaxed in March for most workers, but trading by many executives is monitored and more limited, a company spokeswoman said.
 There are other financial disappointments for employees as well. Fannie Mae's traditional retirement plan has been frozen, like its stock ownership plan, meaning no additional benefits will accrue. That leaves employees at Freddie Mac to wonder if such a cutback is in store for them. Freddie Mac says it has no plan to freeze the pension. 
 Though it did not have an ESOP, Freddie Mac did have a stock purchase plan that allowed employees to buy company shares at a discount. Alas, some employees were buying all the way down. 
 The shares of both companies have rallied this week after they raised money in the credit markets at somewhat improved levels and after some analysts suggested they might be able to avoid a capital injection from the federal government. Shares of Freddie Mac have almost doubled so far this week, to $5.28, and shares of Fannie Mae have jumped nearly $3 so far this week, to $7.95.
 Still, the shares remain more than 80 percent below their closing price at the end of last year.
 Many investors and policy makers remain concerned that the companies, which own or guarantee nearly half of the mortgages in this country, do not have enough capital to withstand rising losses from defaults by homeowners. Last month, Congress authorized the Treasury Department to pump billions of dollars into the companies, if needed.
 Created by the government and operated as hybrid public-private entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were long viewed by prospective hires as both incredibly stable and tremendously profitable. Fannie Mae, for instance, has appeared on Fortune magazine's list of best places to work. Each company has just under 6,000 employees.
 When Fannie Mae froze its pension plan to new employees and certain younger workers late last year, it increased its contributions to the 401(k), which has no company stock.
 Along with its pension, Freddie Mac has a 401(k), which eliminated company stock as an investment option in late 2006. Workers were forced to sell any company stock in the plan by the end of last year, according to a company spokesman.
 For a long time, Freddie Mac's stock purchase plan was quite attractive, allowing employees to buy company shares at a 15 percent discount. At the end of 2007, that plan had $24 million in stock that if held today would be worth about $3.7 million.
 Ms. Fox, the financial planner in Virginia whose office is near the headquarters of Fannie Mae in Washington and Freddie Mac in McLean, Va., said she recently fielded a call from a client who is a Freddie Mac employee. The client wanted to know if it was prudent to keep buying shares through the stock purchase program.
 ''They had been doing this religiously over the years, adding between $500 to $1,000 a month, and they've seen the value of what they purchased slip to next to nothing,'' Ms. Fox said. ''It's almost unfathomable.''
 Luckily, the client had diversified much of the family's Freddie Mac stock holdings, selling about 3,000 shares in 2006 for about $200,000 when the stock was trading in the mid-s$60. But the client held on to about 1,000 shares. Those have fallen from about $65,000 in 2006 to just $5,300 today. 
 The same client has unexercised stock options that are worthless because the strike price is well above the market price. There is also restricted stock and other equity worth much less than when granted. Still, the client's family has a net worth of $2 million, putting it in better financial health than most Americans.
 Compensation experts say employees and employers have learned from the painful stock losses by employees at technology firms and companies like Enron and WorldCom. But the problems at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac show that many employees, and employers, have not fully appreciated the risks of having so much of their savings tied to a single employer.
 ''If you are going to invest in a single security, employer stock is a particularly stupid one to invest in because your human capital is tied up with your financial capital,'' said Norman Stein, a professor at the University of Alabama Law School and a specialist in pension and employee benefits law. 
 Employee stock ownership plans, which many companies have embraced for their tax benefits, can be particularly dangerous if workers do not have diversified investments elsewhere. 
 At Fannie Mae, the stock ownership plan, which has 7,900 participants, is merely a supplement to other retirement plans. According to a securities filing by Fannie Mae, employees can diversify once they are 55 years old and have participated in the plan for at least 10 years. Companies can let employees diversify earlier, but federal law doesn't require it, according to Loren Rodgers, project director at the National Center for Employee Ownership. 
 Participants have previously challenged the company over this plan. In 2004, Fannie Mae was sued by former employees who claimed the company had violated its fiduciary duty to members of that plan under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, citing corporate accounting misstatements. Fannie Mae rejects those allegations. That case is pending in United States District Court in Washington.

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (90%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); US 401K PLANS (78%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (78%); BAILOUTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ACCOUNTING (52%); SCANDALS (52%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: DANIEL H MUDD (59%); RICHARD F SYRON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



713 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 437 words

 BODY:
DWINDLING VALUE Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac gave hefty servings of stocks and options to employees for decades, but those workers are reeling from falling stock prices. 
 WALL STREET JOB CUTS Lehman Brothers is said to be preparing to lay off up to 1,500 people before the firm reports third-quarter results in mid-September. [C1.] 
 ECONOMIC JUMP A surge in export sales helped the economy expand at a 3.3 percent rate in the second quarter, its best quarterly performance since the middle of last year. [C1.]
 DIFFERING ON ENERGY The high oil prices of today mirror a similar situation in 1975, except then, the country had a president willing to confront the issue. High & Low Finance: Floyd Norris. [C1.]
 OVERHAUL PLAN Blaming tight credit markets, Robert A. Lutz, a top executive at General Motors, said automakers need government-backed loans to retool their plants to make smaller cars. [C3.]
 HEADACHE FOR AT&TAs iPhone buyers complain about dropped calls and poor network connections, Apple and AT&T are trying to deflect the blame, but the wireless carrier faces stiffer competition and therefore has more to lose. [C1.]
 TOYOTA CUTS GOAL Toyota lowered its forecast for auto sales growth in 2009 to 2.1 percent and said it would cut production in Europe as record fuel prices damp demand. [C3.]
 WIDER LOSS Novell said its third-quarter loss widened to $15.1 million, but its results were better than expected. [C2.]
 AIRLINE CLOSES Zoom Airlines, the economy airline based in Canada, shut down operations and said it would file for bankruptcy protection. [C3.]
 AWAITING GUSTAV Oil producers in the Gulf of Mexico are preparing for Tropical Storm Gustav, suspending operations and evacuating workers in anticipation that the storm's wind speeds could increase to hurricane strength over warm waters. [C3.]
 DELL STUMBLES The computer maker Dell said its fiscal second-quarter profit fell 17 percent, hurt in part by lower prices and reorganization charges. [C4.]
 BIOMASS POWER The Austin City Council approved a $2.3 billion, 20-year power purchase agreement that will pave the way for a wood-burning plant. [C4.]
 TAX CASE A federal appeals court in Manhattan ruled that a criminal case against more than a dozen former KPMG employees was properly dismissed. [C6.]
 PROFIT FALLS The Sears Holdings Corporation reported that its second-quarter profit fell 62 percent as shoppers, squeezed by the rising costs of gas and food, cut back on nonessentials. [C7.]
 POLITICS ON DEMAND A group of cable companies has introduced a channel that lets viewers watch political videos whenever they want. Advertising. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: AT&T Per share 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); AIRLINES (87%); WEATHER (87%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); HURRICANES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); BIOMASS (75%); POLITICS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); CLOSINGS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); COMPUTER MAKERS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); LITIGATION (65%); APPROVALS (64%); TROPICAL STORMS (63%); TAX LAW (60%); EXPORT TRADE (56%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (92%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (62%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); NOVELL INC (54%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (62%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (62%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (62%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (62%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



714 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Fund Running Dry, But Benefits Will Continue

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
With unemployment on the rise, New York State's jobless benefits fund is likely to run out of money again in early 2009, if not sooner, according to state officials and labor market analysts.
 It would not be the first time. The state's unemployment trust fund has repeatedly run dry in the last several years, most recently in the early months of this year. To fill the gap, the state had to borrow from the federal government until it collected enough payroll taxes to cover the weekly checks it sends to the state's unemployed.
 ''We know that the trust fund is not where we'd like it to be,'' said Nancy E. Dunphy, the State Labor Department's deputy commissioner for employment security. ''We need to build in better long-term solvency provisions.'' 
 Ms. Dunphy said the state fund, which is the source of all the standard unemployment benefits paid out to New York residents, now totals about $760 million. That is about $90 million less than at this time last year, because of the rising number of people receiving unemployment checks, she said.
 With new claims for benefits running about 18 percent higher than a year ago, the state is paying out $200 million to $300 million a month, Ms. Dunphy said. At that rate, the department expects to end the year with just $100 million to $400 million left in the fund. Because the bulk of the payroll taxes starts rolling in during the spring, the state expects to have to borrow again in the early months of 2009, she said.
 The trust fund can borrow temporarily without incurring interest, but if it cannot repay the loan within two years, interest accrues, and the state may have to levy a surcharge on employers to cover it. That happened in 2005 and 2006, when the state failed to repay a loan from the federal fund, and it could happen again if the current rise in unemployment continues for several months, said James A. Parrott, chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research group.
 ''My sense is they're going to run out of money probably before the end of the year,'' said Mr. Parrott, whose group is pushing for an increase in payroll taxes to avert future deficits and raise benefits. ''We have a real unemployment problem at a time when our unemployment insurance system is ill-adapted to these new pressures.''
 According to a report released on Thursday by the Fiscal Policy Institute, the number of unemployed New Yorkers rose by 56,000, about 13.1 percent, to about 500,000 in the first half of this year. The rise was much more pronounced in other parts of the state, including Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk Counties, than in New York City. The city's roster of unemployed residents grew by just 3.3 percent in the first half of 2008, according to the report.
 The report notes that the maximum unemployment benefit in New York is $405 a week, which is considerably less than in some neighboring states and amounts to just 35 percent of the state's average weekly wage. The institute has called for the maximum benefit to be increased, but Ms. Dunphy said that that would not be feasible unless the trust fund had a much larger cushion. Increasing the amount of payroll taxes flowing into the fund would require legislative change, she added.
 Ms. Dunphy said that despite the trust fund's shallow reserve, unemployed New Yorkers did not have to fear that their benefits were in jeopardy. ''The benefits will flow,'' she said, even if the money has to be borrowed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LIBERALISM (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



715 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Growth Rate Of Economy Revised Up

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The economy expanded at a 3.3 percent rate from April through June, far faster than first thought, the government said on Thursday. But the outlook for the remainder of the year remained grim.
 Even as investors celebrated with a rally in the stock market, pushing the Dow up more than 200 points, economists cautioned that consumer spending and foreign demand would probably dry up in the months ahead. 
 With layoffs on the rise, corporate profits falling, and the housing slump still in full swing, the report was seen by many analysts as something of a last gasp. 
 ''Don't lull yourself into complacency looking in the rear view mirror,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at the research firm MFR. ''The view out of the windshield is a lot scarier.''
 A surge in export sales, which jumped 13.9 percent in the second quarter, led the economy to its best quarterly performance since the middle of last year. Inventories also stayed higher than originally thought, which implied more production activity at the nation's businesses. The developments prompted the government to significantly raise its estimate of gross domestic product in the second quarter to 3.3 percent from 1.9 percent.
 The jump was more than economists had anticipated. But the report from the Commerce Department also suggested that the health of American businesses has become heavily dependent on customers abroad. 
 Consumer spending by Americans, which can amount to more than two-thirds of the nation's economic activity, grew at a 1.7 percent rate in the second quarter, up from the original 1.5 percent increase. That figure is low by historical standards, and it came despite the $100 billion in tax rebates mailed out by the government during the quarter. 
 Americans are spending more on smaller items and discounted products, putting a pall on sales of durable goods, which are items intended to last three years or more. Purchases of these goods, like dishwashers and automobiles, dropped 2.5 percent from April to June, even as spending on other types of goods grew. 
 Meanwhile, American corporations suffered through their worst quarter since the 2001 recession, with profits falling 7 percent from a year prior. 
 ''Never has growth looked so good but felt so bad,'' Richard Moody, chief economist of the real estate firm Mission Residential, wrote in a note.
 And, in an ominous sign for American businesses, export sales are expected to slow over the rest of the year. The dollar has strengthened recently against the euro -- good news for the American currency, but bad news for domestic companies that have profited from the increased demand for relatively cheaper American exports.
 Several major export buyers in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan, have also started to show signs of a slowdown. The European Central Bank recently warned about slower growth in its member nations. 
 ''The evidence, in terms of the industrialized world, is pretty clear cut right now that growth is slowing quite substantially,'' said Mr. Shapiro of MFR. ''The whole world is in a slowdown phase.''
 Import sales also fell more in the second quarter than the government first estimated. Imports decreased 7.6 percent, compared with an original estimate of a 6.6 percent decline. 
 While the drop in imports helped push G.D.P. higher for the quarter, slower demand for imports is an indication that Americans are spending less, which could ultimately cause problems for the broader economy.
 Indeed, the weak job market and higher energy prices are putting a strain on household budgets. The Labor Department said on Thursday that the number of Americans who have stayed on rolls for unemployment benefits last week was at a five-year high.
 The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, said last week at a conference in Jackson Hole, Wyo., that he expected the economy would remain weak for the rest of the year, and probably not recover to its full growth potential until 2009.
 From October to December of 2007, the economy actually contracted. It grew at an anemic 0.9 percent rate from January to March of this year. 
 ''Since consumer spending is slowing down and the credit crunch is tightening its grip, it is hard to foresee another quarter with such a robust G.D.P. headline for some time,'' Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight, wrote in a note. 
 But investors, who have dealt with an increasingly volatile market of late, appeared to shrug off the caveats placed on the G.D.P. report. On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average picked up 212 points to end the day at 11,715.18, its best session in three weeks. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 1.5 percent, and the Nasdaq composite index ended the day up 1.2 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With exports rising 13.9 percent in the second quarter, the economy showed increased reliance on demand from abroad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C2)
CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department)(C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CURRENCIES (83%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EURO (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



716 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 3925 words

HEADLINE: What I Did This Summer. And You Can, Too.

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
FORGIVE us for asking, but what happened to August? (Wasn't it just May?) Politics happened, of course, and the Olympics, and a steady drumbeat of bad economic news played out from the deck of Time's winged chariot as it blistered past. Summer was fast this year, and now it's nearly over. It's Labor Day weekend, official last call for a family trip, a perfect outdoor meal, an exhibition seen in the mote-filled light of an afternoon taken off work, a nap in a shady park, the rhythms of a big, noisy party. You'll have ideas of your own. Staff members of The New York Times offer some suggestions herewith: a wave goodbye to a favorite season, receding into the rear-view mirror -- no gas required.
 'Moby-Dick'? Check.
 I plan to spend Labor Day with a sociopath. His name is Parker, and he lumbers through the pages of Richard Stark's noir novels scattering dead bodies like peanut shells. 
 Parker is a criminal. Cold-blooded and resolute, he experiences two or three emotions in the course of a novel and employs a vocabulary of about a hundred words. In a normal hard-boiled detective novel he would be the one left dead at the end. Instead he's always the last man standing. 
 He grows on you. In a complex world Parker makes things simple. People, for instance. They come in three versions for Parker: ''They were in and he worked with them or they were out and he ignored them or they were trouble and he took care of them.'' 
 This is refreshing, and I deserve refreshment after stepping up to ''Moby-Dick'' and, in one stupendous Olympic-class clean-and-jerk, finishing it in a few days after many decades of tentative encounters. It's a great book, but I'm exhausted.
 Opportunely, the University of Chicago Press has begun reissuing the out-of-print Parker novels, starting with the first three: ''The Hunter,'' ''The Man With the Getaway Face'' and ''The Outfit.'' Written pseudonymously by the prolific Donald E. Westlake, the Parker series now runs to 24 novels, with no end in sight. This year ''Dirty Money'' appeared, which means I have at least 22 Parkers to go, including ''The Outfit,'' my weekend project.
 When I knock off that one, a squat travel book beckons, ''Seeking Provence: Old Myths, New Paths,'' part of a British series from Haus Publishing called Armchair Traveler, distributed in the United States by Consortium. Like Tuscany, Provence has been trampled over by too many writers in recent years. But Nicholas Woodsworth, a former Africa correspondent for the Financial Times and a Provencal by marriage, looks as though he could break the curse of Mayle. I'm giving him a chance.
 Labor Day in Provence in New York. That is an unbeatable combination. WILLIAM GRIMES 
 That Dumpster: Is It Art?
 Back in college the last few days of summer held the promise of a fresh start very much like New Year's: This time I'm going to write papers early, keep up with the assigned reading, review my notes regularly. But by the second week of the quarter, who was I kidding? Staying alert enough in class to take notes was the most I could hope for. 
 That's probably why the Pratt Institute Sculpture Park in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, was so attractive to me. Whenever I would pass by the park -- essentially the entire 25-acre campus -- I could see lawns with huge contemporary artworks that seemed to outnumber the students and friendly brick buildings. It looked like a fine place to spread out a blanket and read and feel scholarly without any of the anxiety of actually studying. 
 Of course this was all theoretical, as I'd never actually stepped foot in the park until this week. And it turns out that it is both more relaxing and more thought-provoking than I expected. 
 Inside the gates the sounds of everyday Brooklyn melted away -- no cars, no car radios -- and quiet prevailed. The park, open year-round, was conceived in 2002 by its curator, David Weinrib, who works on what is a revolving exhibition with the institute's president, Thomas F. Schutte. At any given time there are about 50 works on display. 
 From the street the most arresting sculpture is probably Philip Grausman's enormous white fiberglass head, ''Leucantha,'' outside the library. It's a 20th-century answer to the giant hands and feet in Roman antiquities museums. Near the rose garden is an amusing Walter Channing piece that looks like an uprooted tree, but wait, it's morphing into a giant yellow pencil. 
 ''Welcome II,'' by Raphael Zollinger, demanded scrutiny: several naked figures, cast in concrete, kneel on the grass, their hands bound behind their backs. As I was contemplating the many scenarios the figures evoked -- an immigration raid? roadside arrests in Iraq? -- something hanging on Jones Hall caught my eye. It was Donald Lipski's circle of shovels. Suddenly it seemed as if there were installations everywhere I looked. I even covertly checked out a Dumpster. You never know. And that's part of the point of a park like this, raising questions about the meaning and definition of art. 
 Across the way, new students were lining up for orientation, and I was feeling a little smug -- no syllabuses for me -- when I spotted a campus map of the sculptures. The soft summer twilight was fading to a deep-blue darkness, and there was a whole other part of campus I hadn't visited. I was already behind. STEPHANIE GOODMAN 
 Pratt Institute Sculpture Park, DeKalb Avenue at Classon Street, Clinton Hill, Brooklyn; open year-round.
 Experimental in Queens
 It's a big outdoor performance space on the bohemian shore of the East River, with concrete walls and a view of the towers of Midtown. All summer long it has been the site of loud weekend dance parties attended by beer-guzzling young people who look as if they had just stepped out of an American Apparel ad. 
 No, it's not McCarren Park Pool.
 The Warm Up series at the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City, Queens, where D.J.'s, rock bands and all sorts of unclassifiable musical acts play each Saturday under the museum's big, blank walls, predates the pool concerts by eight years. But perhaps because its existence isn't as novel or precarious -- this Sunday will be the final concert at McCarren, which is set to be renovated as an actual public swimming pool -- Warm Up doesn't quite get the ink or respect it deserves. Still come Saturday afternoon it's usually packed. 
 This summer Warm Up has had a typically excellent schedule of up-to-the-minute dance and experimental music, beginning with the Nublu Orchestra and continuing with, among others, a DFA Records show and a Black Rock Coalition day with Dragons of Zynth. Two weeks ago the retro-dance acts Kelley Polar and Metro Area shared a bill with Tony Conrad, the avant-garde filmmaker and composer. 
 There are still two weekends remaining, but for my money the best show of the season is on Saturday, and it's heavy on the weird old school of New York avant-garde rock. Jonathan Kane, a composer who was the drummer of the brutally loud and slow band Swans, plays with his February project, along with James Chance and the Contortions, the No Wave heroes who perfected the art of being both funky and anxious. Representing the new school are two pairs of D.J.'s: the Americans Matthew Dear and Ryan Elliott, and the Australian duo Hey Convict. 
 There's no Slip 'n Slide here, but the fashion show is just as good, and besides, who needs distractions? BEN SISARIO 
 Saturday from 2 to 9 p.m., P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens; (718) 784-2084, ps1.org/warmup.
 In Empty Park, the Brass Ring
 Sure, Central Park has its indelible locales -- Bethesda Fountain, Strawberry Fields, the Sheep Meadow -- but Prospect Park in Brooklyn feels more like a sprawling backyard. 
 At the end of summer the city goes quiet as its denizens head for their last weekends at the beach. It is the most enticing time for a picnic in the park, where the nearly empty meadows mean no competition for a prime spot of lawn.
 So last weekend my husband, my 4-year-old daughter, nearly 2-year-old son and three other families planted a rainbow-colored umbrella and several blankets on a patch of grass just north of the ball fields and west of the dog beach. 
 I had stopped by Blue Apron Fine Foods (814 Union Street) beforehand to pick up some cheese, sopressata, olives and a loaf of bread. Our friends brought homemade hummus, tempeh salad and freshly baked bagels from the Bagel Hole (400 Seventh Avenue), along with lox, tomatoes and some prosecco and orange juice for mimosas. One family rounded out the spread with a fruit salad (extra seasoning courtesy of their 4-year-old son, who dunked his bare foot in it.)
 As the afternoon drifted by, my husband helped the kids fly a kite. Another dad pitched multicolored balls while the kids swung a foam core bat. One friend was stung on his foot by a bee, but remained remarkably calm. 
 The sun rose in the sky, so we sought shade uphill under a large oak. Kadima paddles and a bocce ball set materialized. The kids -- five in all -- threw balls at a tree. Attempts to make bubbles with a large hoop finally succeeded when an enormous orb floated off into the trees.
 Around 3 p.m. five adults and five children set off for the Prospect Park carousel. We passed by a waterfall and a duckweed covered lake in front of the Boat House. 
 At the 96-year-old carousel the children scampered onto the wooden horses. Lucio Schiavone, the white-haired operator, collected our tickets before starting the carousel on its five-minute rotation, accompanied by the organ playing slightly out-of-tune Strauss waltzes.
 The Naples-born Mr. Schiavone, who has been running the carousel since 1990, said he had no plans to leave. ''I can't find any other job where everybody is happy,'' he said.
 After our first ride the adults were easily persuaded to spring for ice cream. We took one more spin, and then collected the sticky, sleepy kids for the walk home. MOTOKO RICH 
 The Prospect Park Carousel is just inside the Willink entrance to the park, at Ocean and Flatbush Avenues and Empire Boulevard, Brooklyn; open Thursday through Sunday; hours through Labor Day, noon to 6; $1.50 per ride.
 All the Pretty Horses
 Last week, at the end of a summer in which I was beginning to behave more like my mother's parent than her child, she came to visit, and she wanted to see ''The Horse,'' the economically titled exhibition at the American Museum of Natural History. It was the first museum in New York she had ever visited, and she entered sandwiched between me and my husband, holding our hands. Though I am an animal lover whose fondest childhood memories include riding horses along rural paths, I had fairly low expectations. How much can you say about a horse? People had to ride them before there were cars. Some people race them. End of story. 
 The moment we set foot in the russet-hued exhibition room, I was proven wrong. I studied the diorama of various species. I overheard my mother remark, ''Did you know that some horses were the size of dogs?'' I watched a video -- twice -- describing how scientists discerned whether horses ate grasses or soft leaves and pored over a panel explaining how domestication affected the process of natural selection. I stopped at a display explaining how a horse is measured and learned that I'm a hand taller than some equines. 
 The scientific portion was brief enough to make a person feel smarter but didn't require an inordinate amount of concentration. We wandered into an area with a 19th-century firetruck, accompanied by panels explaining horses' contributions during the industrial era and during World War I (exemplified by a gas mask made for a horse). We learned about the varieties of uses horses were put to; in Iran, for example, cheetahs were improbably trained to ride on horses' rumps and act as hunting assistants. 
 By the end I was dazzled. The museum had left me, as it had on my own first visit, amazed at the world and human existence, and cognizant of my limited place in it. 
 ''How do we get out of here?'' I wondered. 
 This time, my mother led the way. MONICA DRAKE
 ''The Horse'' continues through Jan. 4 at the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West and 79th Street; (212) 769-5100, amnh.org.
 And One for Madame...
 Salon de Ning, the newly redecorated rooftop bar 23 floors up at the Peninsula Hotel in Midtown, is 1930s Shanghai Deco. But step onto the terrace, and it's apparent that the style is actually more Manhattan Movie, with a clientele that is cross-continental and cross-generational. Picture David Niven meeting Sarah Jessica Parker on one of the Chinese-style daybeds. Or, as on a recent night, a businessman from Dallas drinking a 12-year-old Chivas (''tastes just like Chivas'') talking across tables to a woman from the Upper East Side wearing a handmade, silken-linen sheath in what she called ''a shade of blue that you just can't find in this country.''
 The Ning salons -- there will be two more in Peninsula hotels, in Hong Kong and Shanghai -- are ''inspired by Madame Ning,'' a celebrated Shanghai salonniere, who is billed as a world traveler and art collector with stylish homes from Marrakech to Mount Fuji, including an eclectically decorated New York penthouse. A fascinating tale, although quite fictitious. 
 The 1905 building, originally the Gotham Hotel, still has a Belle Epoque air, with its chandelier, grand staircase and marmoreal bathrooms. The Ning's east and west terraces embrace a covered bar, and the view is cinematic when the lights come on along Fifth Avenue.
 The drink prices are high-rise too. (Cocktails are $22 to $24 with gratuity included.) If you've just sold your apartment, order a bottle of Deutz rose Champagne ($225). Or try a Dark 'n' Stormy, a Bellini or a Ninglet, although I recommend the three-olive, Grey Goose martini. Descriptions of the fruity-flowery Ning signature drinks make for lovely reading. PAT RYAN 
 Open 4 p.m. to midnight; at the Peninsula Hotel, 700 Fifth Avenue, at 55th Street, Manhattan; (212) 956-2888, salondening.com.
 What's Happening to Me?
 I confess. I enjoyed ''Mamma Mia!'' Twice. 
 I can't quite explain it. I'm a man in his late 40s whose aesthetic taste runs to the detailed, the dank, the depressing. I tend to mull the glass half-empty, and I'm fine with that, thank you very much. So how could I be taken in by cotton-candy girl-power set to an Abba soundtrack? It defies natural law. But to those of us a little too weighed down with adult worries, ''Mamma Mia!'' on screen and stage may be a pinch in the potbelly, a reminder to lighten up already, for goodness' sake. 
 I'm a big Stellan Skarsgard fan, and the thought of a singing and dancing Meryl, Her Streepness, was enough to send me to the movie. What I found was like a charming Shakespearean comedy that hardly paused to take itself seriously. ''Mamma Mia!'' -- with its hoot of a real Greek chorus -- has the potential, at least in my book, for ''Rocky Horror Picture Show'' cult status.
 Ms. Streep, apparently determined to show off her loosey-goosey side in this feminist-tinged romance, seems to be having a blast in the lead role of Donna. What a pleasure to see her in the credit sequence, belting out ''Waterloo'' with her mature (kind of) co-stars, all happy not to have to play the hunks and babes. 
 The movie sent me to the Cadillac Winter Garden Theater on Broadway, where ''Mamma Mia!'' is still playing after almost seven years. I admit, I had my worries. Must have fun, I programmed myself. 
 My concern seemed justified at first. The stage show has a simple but plain set, as useful as a wrench and only a bit more attractive, and some performances were hardly less mechanical. Others were rusty. The plot, primarily about a young woman's desire to discover her father's identity (there are three possibilities) before she gets married, clunked along. Where a camera cut found humor, this three-dimensional live show somehow lost a dimension. 
 And yet. Gina Ferrall, as Donna's sturdy friend Rosie, quickly became the audience's best pal. Carrie Manolakos, as the dad-seeking Sophie, glowed with a convincing belief in her fairy tale. As Donna's lost love, Sam, Christopher Shyer -- well, he could sing! And though it happened rarely, there was the joy of watching a big ensemble of gyrating everyfolk, a bunch of dancing queens, kings, princes and princesses. 
 By the time ''Waterloo'' came around at the curtain call, I was grinning and clapping with the packed house. We who love ''Mamma Mia!'' may be a select tribe, but we are a happy one. DAVID DeWITT 
 ''Mamma Mia!'' continues on screen, and on Broadway at the Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street; (212) 239-6200.
 On My Tasty Street
 I live just two blocks from the far eastern end of Roosevelt Avenue in Queens, which Good Magazine has ranked as one of ''America's tastiest streets.'' I've sampled plenty of Roosevelt's bounty over the years. But just how much could a person try on one leisurely summer weekend evening? 
 A foodie friend and I settled on our parameters: only Latin food that could be eaten while standing. Starting at 9 p.m. on a Saturday in Woodside and heading west into the heart of Queens, our first stop was La Flor, a lovely cafe nestled just under the 61st Street stop of the No. 7 train (which, it should be noted, may be the noisiest train in the city). La Flor was out of their excellent giant chocolate-chip cookies, so I went for a bag of smaller, crunchier cookies ($2), heavily flavored with molasses, and pocketed them for later.
 Only a few blocks on, under the 61st Street-Woodside 7 stop, we hit the first of 10 taco trucks we would spot over 40 blocks. (We ate at four.) A taco de bistek ($2) was gone after four bites. 
 About seven nondescript blocks further, we arrived at El Sitio, between 68th and 69th Streets. A Cuban lunch counter open into the wee hours, El Sitio doesn't appear to have changed much since it opened in the 1960s. We broke our rule and sat at the counter, listening in on a heated conversation about preseason football over a good, basic Cuban sandwich and an eye-opening cafe con leche ($5.50 for the sandwich and coffee). 
 Over the next 10 blocks or so we sampled two more taco trucks, taste-testing the carnitas (roasted pork) at 75th and 78th Streets (both $2 per taco). The result: a blissful draw.
 A block later we hit the highlight of the trip: the wildly acclaimed Arepa Lady who, like a rare bird, appears only during warm weather months, late on Friday and Saturday nights. Her two signature items are corn cakes grilled and then topped (''choclo'') or filled (''con queso'') with a salty farmer's cheese ($3 each). 
 At Gleane Street, now past Jackson Heights and into Elmhurst, we managed to suck down our final taco ($2) at El Carrito, another excellent offering. We walked to the 90th Street 7 station and rode it back toward Woodside, knowing that scores of delights awaited us deeper into Queens. Next time. We each took nibbles of the La Flor cookies and called it a night. DAN SALTZSTEIN
 A Sunfish Story
 I come from a family of avid anglers, who pass down a passion for long casts and tall tales. I've been searching for a place to introduce my 5-year-old daughter to our traditions, and found that Central Park is the perfect spot for her first taste of fishing.
 While fishing is permitted in several of the ponds in the park, Harlem Meer offers the best opportunity to introduce newcomers to the sport. From spring through early fall the setting is serene, the quarry plentiful and the tackle free to use.
 On our most recent trip we stopped in the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center, the building on the north side of the 11-acre lake. With a photo ID visitors can borrow bamboo poles and receive a small container of corn for bait, everything a beginner needs to pursue the scrappy sunfish, bass and carp that inhabit the meer. You'll have to bring your patience, however. The previous evening's rain had clouded the water, making it difficult to track our prey by sight. Still, the lines came equipped with bobbers, which were tugged under the surface quite a few times. For more than an hour my ordinarily antsy daughter sat on the shore rapt, magically quiet as she waited for a nibble (and unforgiving of her father, who had caught a sunfish while her bait remained untouched). 
 The hooks are barbless, allowing for easy removal, and Central Park's waters operate under catch-and-release guidelines, which require anglers immediately to return anything they capture to the water. That's good for the fish, and good for me and my new fishing partner -- when we come back next summer, we'll want them to have grown even bigger. KEN JAWOROWSKI 
 Fishing poles and bait are available without charge Tuesday through Sunday at the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center on Harlem Meer, 110th Street between Fifth and Lenox Avenues; (212) 860-1370, photo ID required.
 Home Alone 
 The stars aligned. My older daughter was packed off to college. The younger one was with friends on Cape Cod. My wife was drafted into emergency weekend duty at the office. I found myself home alone and tried to remember: What did I used to do, back before the house, before the kids? 
 I watched movies. 
 I watched movies by the dozen, sometimes five or six a day. So I set my TiVo, grabbed some DVDs and settled in for an indolent weekend. Outside, lawn mowers growled, children screeched. Inside, Randolph Scott turned his concrete chin toward Lee Marvin in Budd Boetticher's ''Seven Men From Now'' (1956), the first of the seven classic Westerns Scott made with Boetticher. From there, it was a natural slide to Anthony Mann and ''The Naked Spur,'' made three years earlier with James Stewart reinventing himself before your eyes as an amateur bounty hunter who hates himself for trying to capture a good-for-nothing played by Robert Ryan with perfect grinning menace. 
 After dinner Turner Classic Movies was showing ''Green for Danger,'' a British whodunit from 1946 starring the pompously conniving Alastair Sim on the trail of a murderer at a small-town hospital during the Blitz. This was made after the war, of course, but the Blitz was still fresh on everyone's mind, and the atmosphere of dread surrounding the German V-1 flying bombs mixes perfectly with the simmering tension about a serial killer. 
 The next day I needed some James Bond. I started with ''The World Is Not Enough'' (1999), one of the Pierce Brosnan efforts. Mostly I wanted to revisit some of the later scenes in Istanbul, which I'd recently visited. As I remembered, Robert Carlyle was a rather wan villain and Denise Richards a ghastly love interest, but Judi Dench does her best turn as M and the Istanbul scenes were beautiful. This led, inevitably, to ''From Russia With Love,'' because it too was set largely in Istanbul. Besides reacquainting me with Sean Connery's silken sadism, it gave me a chance to see how much, and how little, Istanbul had changed since 1963. 
 I ended the weekend with John Ford. I had rewatched ''E.T.'' with my daughter before she headed off to college, and was struck again by the snippet from John Ford's ''Quiet Man'' that E.T. watches on television. So I decided to watch the whole thing. It's Ford at his blarniest, a comic and romantic ode to Ireland in all its stereotypes. I only wished my daughter had been there to watch it with me. Phone home. RICK LYMAN 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about end-of-summer pleasures misstated some aspects of Queens geography in the section ''On My Tasty Street.'' The writer lives two blocks from the far western end of Roosevelt Avenue, not two blocks from the far eastern end. Setting out to sample food on Roosevelt Avenue he headed east into the heart of Queens, not west. His first stop, the cafe La Flor, is under the 52nd Street stop of the No. 7 train, not the 61st Street stop.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Flashing some attitude on the carousel in Prospect Park. ''I can't find any other job where everybody is happy,'' said the carousel's operator.
''Welcome II,'' by Raphael Zollinger, in the Pratt Institute Sculpture Park, which basically comprises the entire 25-acre campus.
Doing some summer reading in a shady spot in Prospect Park.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
At P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center's Warm Up series of experimental and up-to-the minute music.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 From left, Christine Baranski, Meryl Streep and Julie Walters in the ''Mamma Mia!'' movie. The show is still on Broadway too.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER MOUNTAIN/UNIVERSAL PICTURES)(pg. E13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US LABOR DAY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (72%)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



717 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; RITUALS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Deep Roots and the Lure of Food on a Stick

BYLINE: By FINN-OLAF JONES

 BODY:
IN Minnesota this weekend, excitement will be at a fever pitch, with the Twin Cities about to host a large and historic gathering of campaigning politicians, who will engage in some colorful grandstanding, review the economy, agriculture and family values, and possibly debate a vital question: Should spaghetti and meatballs be served on a stick?
 It's Minnesota State Fair time, and from last Thursday, the 21st, through Monday, which also happens to be the first day of the Republican National Convention, the imposing fairgrounds by the banks of the Mississippi will be the focal point for Minnesotans the world over (we get around). Any politico venturing over from the convention, or settling in this weekend for a preconvention look around, will find a truly patriotic sight. Some hundred thousand visitors a day will be making their annual pilgrimage to the fair's vast barns, its grandstands and the midway with its rides and hokey freak shows -- though, in one of the few major changes to the fair from when I was a child, the latter are now collected under a single sideshow tent called the World of Wonders Palace of Illusions. 
 Our visiting national politicos might also learn a thing about the fine fruits of compromise. The gorgeous State Fairgrounds were a result of a prolonged slugfest between Minneapolis and St. Paul -- the greatest sibling rivals since Cain and Abel -- who in 1885 finally resigned themselves to siting the annual Great Minnesota Get-Together on a county poor farm equidistant from the two downtowns.
 And what a site. Minnesota's fair is not a ''ragtop jungle,'' said Brienna Schuette, the Minnesota State Fair's marketing and communications manager. ''Our fairgrounds are urban, so we have hundreds of shade trees and permanent buildings of some historical significance. And while some fairs hire show herds to fill their barns'' -- citing diplomatic concerns, she declined to name any of these dissemblers -- ''we've kept it real. All our animals are brought in by farmers for the competitions.''
 Architecturally, the place is stunning. Much of it consists of Art Deco and neo-Classical barns with sculptural reliefs and grandstands built during the 1930s under the Works Progress Administration to create work during the Depression.
 You'd imagine that Minnesota fairgoers would be grateful to the government for all this largess, but no, they keep their politicians confined to plywood stands where they are forced to dole out cheese curds and buttermilk for attention. 
 The fair's pedestals are generally reserved for local farm beauties willing to have their likenesses sculptured in 90-pound blocks of butter and for outstanding local artisans like the baking maestro Marjorie Johnson, poised once again to take on all comers, backed by the more than 2,550 ribbons she's won to date.
 The enduring grand scale of state fairs in general celebrates a phenomenon as American as cow-tipping: the development of a thriving agriculture across the whole continent without a landed gentry. Whereas European farm fairs are relatively intimate affairs featuring well-mannered folk arrayed in oiled Barbour coats, funny tartan hats and other aristocratic froofery, our state fairs are a chaotic collision of thousands of agribusinesses as different and individualistic as the entrepreneurs who run them. 
 In Minnesota, we celebrate all their displayed contraptions and beasts, along with the many who toil in the fields of the republic by serving the fruits of their labors on a stick.
 Ah yes, food on a stick. No one I asked could tell me where that idea came from, but I'm guessing it's an offshoot of a pervasive Midwestern belief that all party food tastes better on a toothpick. The Minnesota State Fair boasts some 60 different items -- from corn on the cob to smoked walleye -- balanced on the tip of a stick. One of the best recent additions to this proud culinary legacy must be spaghetti wrapped around a meatball, which, miracle of miracles, stays on the stick and, to use what in Minnesota passes for an effusive compliment, could taste worse.
 Every year I find myself drawn back to the fair by some very deep roots. My great-grandfather came to Minnesota from the East over a century ago to write crop reports for the newspapers. His children, along with most of the rest of the country, became city folk. But four generations, including mine, have always felt compelled to attend the fair to see where our food comes from and to get in trouble in Ye Old Mill, which my father and his cousin once closed down for half an hour when they managed to build a dam of boats in the gently rushing waters.
 My father, who lived all over the world, always had a soft spot for the fair, begging me and my family to come a day early for our annual Labor Day weekend on Lake Superior so that he could tug his grandchildren through the old barns while being counter-tugged toward the rides on the midway. Dad spent the last three years of his life in an Alzheimer's unit, but even when he no longer knew who the current president was, he could pinpoint the place on the State Fairgrounds where his father, an amateur magician, had pickpocketed the mayor of St. Paul's watch during an impromptu performance. My grandfather, not incidentally, was from Minneapolis.
 For Dad, and now for many of us city folk who still feel the fair's annual pull, there is an unspoken question: ''Am I still engaged with the land that feeds me?'' And perhaps because once a year we get a prolonged whiff of manure, or watch a pig being born in the Miracle of Birth Center or come face-to-face with the folks who raise and grow our food -- even if more of them commute to second jobs and wear their John Deere hats backward -- then maybe we are worthy of the bounty of our good earth and good country for yet another year.
 Especially if that bounty is served on a stick.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY T. C. WORLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JIM GEHRZ/MINNEAPOLIS STAR-TRIBUNE (BOTTOM RIGHT)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FAMILY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); HISTORY (73%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); CHEESE (62%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (73%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (73%) MINNESOTA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



718 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: An Embattled Enclave Yearns to Be Free (and Liechtenstein)

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

DATELINE: TSKHINVALI, Georgia 

 BODY:
For the skeptics who raise doubts about their future as an independent state, South Ossetians have one word: Andorra. 
 The comparison sounded a little strange, looking around this city, the capital of the enclave of South Ossetia, which was burned and battered by Georgian attacks earlier this month. Bullets had torn big chunks out of the pine trees, and the turret of a tank lay upside down in a doorway. Someone had spray-painted the words ''Shame, Georgian bootlicker!'' on a wall on the main boulevard. 
 Still, after Russia formally recognized South Ossetia as an independent state, Zalina Tskhovrebova, editor of the city's largest newspaper, allowed herself to think about the distant, wealth-drenched European principalities of Liechtenstein and Andorra, which are about the size of South Ossetia. 
 ''Of course, I have not been there,'' Ms. Tskhovrebova said. ''We only know what we have read on the Internet.'' 
 Russia's recognition of South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent nations has filled people here with hope that other countries will follow. To outsiders, that hope may seem far-fetched; Western leaders have made it clear that they consider the regions part of Georgia. 
 Critics are particularly skeptical of South Ossetia, whose population of around 70,000 is about the same as that of Passaic, N.J. Most of its working-age men have been fighting against the Georgians for years, and the drawn-out conflict has left its economy a shambles. 
 Nevertheless, a building has been designated for the city's first embassy, which will belong, naturally, to Russia. And Sergey V. Lavrov, Russia's foreign minister, directly addressed South Ossetia's smallness in a news conference. 
 ''There are at least half a dozen U.N. members whose population is less than the population of South Ossetia,'' Mr. Lavrov said. ''I believe the smallest U.N. member state's population has some 9,000 members.'' 
 This city has been the site of sporadic fighting for 18 years, culminating in five days of fierce shelling the second week of August. People here are still deeply shaken by the attacks. Attending a boisterous rally on Wednesday, Gulo Pukhayeva, 46, said that for two days, her neighbor's body lay on the street in the late-summer heat, but Georgian soldiers were posted in tanks at the intersection and they were too afraid to pick up the body. Recalling it, she began to cry.
 But Elionora Bedoyeva, South Ossetia's minister for youth affairs and tourism, was preparing to once again pitch the region as an eco-tourism destination. Her efforts to date have been unsuccessful, she acknowledged with wry good humor. Last year, she organized a booth at a tourism fair in Moscow and persuaded one group of young people to come to South Ossetia on vacation.
 ''We were so poor that we found each other quickly,'' she said. They were the first group of tourists to visit since 1990, when the conflict against Georgia began. They arrived in late July and, unfortunately, got caught in a cross-fire and fled the country. 
 The mountains here are untouched by heavy industry, she pointed out. Besides, young Ossetian men have been carrying out military operations in the mountains for years, she said, and would make wonderful guides. She talked about starting a ski resort, and it was clear that her competitive juices were flowing.
 Sochi, the wildly popular resort on the Black Sea, ''has snow for four months a year,'' she said.
 ''We have it for seven.''
 With Russian aid pouring into Tskhinvali, it was beginning to take on a new aspect. 
 Two weeks ago, the air was thick with dust and debris, and bodies lay uncollected in the streets. On Thursday, teams of young Russian men were swarming around a few damaged buildings, wearing neat uniforms with labels that said ''Special Construction.'' They were cutting glass to replace windows, putting coral-colored paint on a primary school and spackling hundreds of bullet holes. A caravan of trucks passed through town, distributing ''Genuine Russian Bread'' and a popular Moscow daily, ''Russian Newspaper.'' 
 The Soviet-era House of Printing has been remade into an International Press Center, and journalists now receive press accreditation by the ''State Commission for Information and Press of the Republic of South Ossetia.'' An exhibit titled ''Genocide'' appeared this week, with photos of injured children and burned and mangled bodies. 
 There was no glass in most of the windows, though, and the bathrooms remained a reminder that a war had occurred. 
 ''I would like it to maximally resemble civilization,'' said Alexei Martynov, who runs the press center. Despite the dust and heat, Mr. Martynov appears every day in a fresh business suit and tie, providing a contrast with the thick-necked Ossetian militiamen who lounge in front of the building, Kalashnikovs propped beside them. 
 Mr. Martynov -- the director of a nonprofit group in Moscow called the International Institute for Newly Established States -- said it was time for South Ossetia to shrug off of its warrior mentality and usher in a period of ''managers and engineers.'' He said it could prove to be a model for a number of ''states with unclear political status,'' like Transnistria, a breakaway region of Moldova that has also moved to reunite with Russia. One possibility would be to make it a tax haven, a strategy that has worked for Monaco, Andorra and Liechtenstein, he said. 
 ''Why can't Liechtenstein be here?'' he said. ''The only difference is that they are in the center of Europe. They have the Alps. We have the Caucasus.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Russian military convoy passed through the Caucasus Mountains in South Ossetia early this month after the outbreak of the conflict with Georgia.
 Tskhinvali, capital of the separatist region of South Ossetia in Georgia, was battered by Georgian attacks this month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DMITRY KOSTYUKOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); TOURISM (65%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%); ECOTOURISM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) CAUCASUS MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) GEORGIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LIECHTENSTEIN (93%); ANDORRA (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



719 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Coverage of a Child's Murder Grips Shaken Israelis

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
Israel is in the grip of a nightmarish tale of cross-generational infidelity, child abuse and murder. The story is blanketing the news media while police detectives speak of never having been so shaken by a case, and an anguished nation is asking how it could happen here, in a society that considers itself especially caring and intimate.
 The story centers on the killing of a blue-eyed 4-year-old French girl named Rose, her guileless smile haunting the front page of every newspaper. The police say she was killed by her grandfather, a 45-year-old Israeli who had lured her mother away from his own son, the dead girl's father, to be his lover. They say the man has confessed to having stuffed the child's body into a red suitcase and dumping it into a river. Divers are searching. 
 Those are the bare outlines, but the details of familial dysfunction over many years, recounted by the police and lawyers in news conferences, only add to the horror that has so gripped Israelis. 
 ''Israelis like to tell each other that in America you can fall in the street and nobody will care,'' said Oded Ben Ami, host of a daily news broadcast on Channel 2, whose ratings spiked on Tuesday as he focused on the case. ''Now we fear this is happening to us here. Rose is bringing us back together in horror and grief.''
 The grandfather, an unemployed taxi driver named Ronny Ron, was living with the girl's mother, 23-year-old Marie Pisam. Together they have two daughters of their own. 
 Their relationship began four years ago when Ms. Pisam and her husband, Benjamin, Mr. Ron's biological son, came with the infant Rose from France to meet him. They had learned that Mr. Ron was Benjamin's father when Benjamin's mother, who raised him alone in France, told them that she had become pregnant while on a tour of Israel.
 Mr. Ron welcomed the teenage couple and their infant daughter, but soon he and Ms. Pisam announced their love for each other, and Benjamin returned to France with Rose. Mr. Ron and Ms. Pisam set up house and had two daughters. The police say that Benjamin became a negligent father in France and that Rose was often in the care of welfare workers.
 About a year ago Ms. Pisam heard of Rose's condition and sought custody of her, which she got in December, and brought her here. But it turned out that Rose had severe emotional and behavioral problems, speaking little and unable to form attachments. Ms. Pisam and Mr. Ron did not know how to care for her and took to leaving her with Mr. Ron's mother, Vivian Yaakov. 
 It was not easy for Ms. Yaakov, either, and she kept asking her son to find a better solution. After a dispute between them in May, Mr. Ron apparently took Rose away. Ms. Yaakov said that was the last time she saw the child. It was she who several weeks ago approached child welfare authorities in Israel with her concern. That led the police to Mr. Ron's house and ultimately to his confession, the police say.
 But Mr. Ron reportedly gave the police a number of different explanations about what had happened. The one he has told more than once, the police say, is that while in the car he hit Rose because she was being difficult and that when he realized she had stopped moving, her head hanging unnaturally, he stuffed her in a suitcase and threw her in the Yarkon River. Other stories he told involved selling Rose to Palestinians in the West Bank or giving her to a Jewish seminary or a French convent. 
 Police officials spent recent weeks checking out all those possibilities but seem most focused on searching the river, where television news stations have positioned live cameras. Until Tuesday, the court had curbed discussion of the case. The restrictions were fully lifted on Wednesday.
 It is unclear what role the girl's mother played. No one has yet been charged, but under the Israeli legal system, the names of serious suspects are publicized and their movements are restricted while the police build a case.
 Whatever the outcome of the investigation, it is hard to come up with an example of a story that has so dominated news coverage as this one has in the past few days. Yediot Aharonot, Israel's largest-selling daily newspaper, devoted its first 17 pages to it on Wednesday under the headline ''Rose, the girl that no one wanted.'' Equally amazing, Haaretz, a liberal intellectual daily that has often given limited coverage to such stories, ran an eight-column headline (''Grandfather tells police: I killed Rose'') across the top of its front and a total of 10 articles on the case.
 It is clear that apart from the sheer voyeuristic lure of the grisly details, the story has taken hold of Israelis who are asking themselves how a 4-year-old, even a foreign one not registered in a school here, could fall between the cracks of a society in such a way that no one noticed her mistreatment or, indeed, her disappearance for months.
 Yigal Palmor, a Foreign Ministry official who spent years posted in Spain and France, said that Israelis tended to think of themselves as more caring and tightly knit than people in other societies and that this had shaken them.
 ''It is very neighborly and informal in Israel, sometimes to the annoyance of people from other cultures,'' he said. ''If you fall in the street, not only will a crowd gather but you will get very specific advice because in the crowd someone's brother-in-law is a doctor who once had a case like this. We think of this as a place where everyone is in everyone else's business. Yet this happened here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Israel's newspapers have been filled with coverage of the murder case of 4-year-old Rose Ron. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIHAL FATTAL/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (59%) ISRAEL (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



720 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Even Toyota Trims Goal in Shift From Big Vehicles

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
Even Toyota is not immune to the slowdown in the global economy. 
 The Japanese company, which is battling General Motors for the title of the world's largest automaker, cut its sales forecasts on Thursday, warning that higher fuel costs and a slowdown in the United States and Europe would probably hold back the auto business at least through 2009. 
 ''We have been going at top speed up to now,'' the Toyota president, Katsuaki Watanabe, was quoted by The Associated Press in Tokyo. ''It is time to set more cautious targets.'' 
 The Japanese group, which includes Daihatsu Motor and Hino cars, now expects to sell 9.7 million cars and trucks in 2009, 700,000 fewer than its previous forecast. That is still 2.1 percent higher than the 9.5 million Toyota expects to sell this year. 
 A big reason for the more bearish outlook is the 10 percent reduction, to 2.7 million vehicles, in Toyota's 2009 sales target for the United States, where Toyota has invested heavily in trucks and sport utility vehicles. Those have fallen out of favor as consumers shift to smaller vehicles that get better gas mileage.
 Toyota said it would also be cutting production in Britain and Poland to bring output in line with slipping demand in Europe. 
 Toyota is only the latest of the global automakers to acknowledge suffering as inflation and economic weakness in their major markets undermine consumers' buying power, and high gasoline prices cause a shift toward more fuel-efficient, and in many cases, less profitable, vehicles. 
 Auto sales are slumping in the world's two most important markets, North America and Western Europe. American auto sales fell 10.6 percent from a year earlier in the January-July period, according to Ward's Automotive Group, as the rate of decline accelerated in the second quarter. Western European sales fell 2 percent in the first six months, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association. 
 The auto industry's pain has been particularly intense in the United States, where Ford posted an $8.7 billion second-quarter loss, and General Motors had a $15.5 billion loss for the quarter. 
 The Detroit automakers have idled truck plants across North America and laid off tens of thousands of workers. American automakers are trying to drum up political support for a government aid package. 
 European companies are also under pressure. The French automaker Renault warned in July that ''the deterioration in the macroeconomic environment has far exceeded the worst-case scenarios,'' while the German carmaker Daimler said it was assuming that the world economy ''would continue to lose momentum as the year progresses.'' 
 High prices for raw materials, rising inflation and the credit crisis, Daimler added, would almost certainly prevent a significant near-term revival. 
 Toyota's outlook has been hampered by the 20 percent of its lineup in the United States that is made up of S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks. The company said last month that it had misjudged the speed of the swing in consumer taste toward smaller cars. The announcement Thursday was an acknowledgment of what many analysts had expected. 
 ''It's not surprising, given the market conditions, but I think their forecast might be a little conservative,'' Tatsuo Yoshida, an auto sector analyst at UBS in Tokyo, said. He predicted 2009 sales would come in closer to 10 million vehicles. 
 ''Sales are still growing,'' he said, ''but the pace is a lot slower.'' 
 And the company disappointed analysts Thursday by declining to provide a forecast for 2010, he said, suggesting that the business outlook remains extraordinarily cloudy. 
 Toyota and Nissan Motor are more exposed to the current problem than the third Japanese carmaker, Honda Motor, whose trucks and S.U.V.'s are generally smaller and lighter. With its nimbler fleet, Honda has benefited directly from the shift to more fuel-efficient vehicles. 
 Toyota is working quickly to get back its momentum. It is reconfiguring its United States operations, concentrating truck production in Texas and retooling a Mississippi factory that had been meant for its Highlander crossover vehicle to make its Prius hybrid cars. On Monday, Toyota said it would raise prices on some vehicles in Japan to protect profits, the first time in decades that it has increased prices there on existing models. 
 The problem of the wrong product mix is weighing even more heavily on American automakers. In July, General Motors dealers reported an average 174-day supply on-hand of the Yukon XL-Suburban, up from a 92-day supply a year earlier. 
 Inventory of Chevrolet's C/K Suburban nearly doubled over the period, to 116 days from 63 days. American automakers are offering discounts of $10,000 or more on some S.U.V.'s so that dealers have space to stock more of the fuel-efficient cars consumers are clamoring for. 
 Mr. Watanabe, the Toyota president, also said that Toyota would introduce its plug-in hybrid car in 2009, a year ahead of schedule, though it would be available initially only to corporate fleets. 
 Toyota may be feeling added urgency to get the car on the road, because General Motors said this month that it had ''essentially finished'' designing its first plug-in hybrid car, the Chevrolet Volt, and that a production-ready prototype would arrive soon. Nissan Motor is planning a purely electric vehicle, which it plans to begin selling by 2010. 
 And Toyota, which sold 4.8 million vehicles worldwide in the first half, compared with G.M.'s 4.5 million, is investing aggressively, Mr. Yoshida of UBS said, and will be better positioned once the current problems ease. ''When the business environment is tough, the stronger players become even stronger,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Citing slowdowns in the United States and Europe, Katsuaki Watanabe, right, Toyota's president, was cautious about sales. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Demand for cars like the Prius is strong, but pickups and S.U.V.'s make up a fifth of Toyota's lineup in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YOSHIKAZU TSUNO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); INFLATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SALES PLAN (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%)

COMPANY: DAIHATSU MOTOR CO LTD (90%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: 7262 (TSE) (90%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); RNO (PAR) (84%); RNO (BIT) (84%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



721 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2331 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, August 29, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 FOR TINY SOUTH OSSETIA, 
 Dreams of Nationhood
 Russia's recognition of South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent nations has people in South Ossetia hoping that other countries will follow. But Western leaders have made it clear that they consider the regions part of Georgia, and there is the issue of size: South Ossetia's population is about the same as that of Passaic, N.J. No matter, Ossetians say. There are smaller countries. PAGE A6
 CHINA CALLS TIMEOUT ON CRITICISM
 Soccer is the most popular sport in China, but the men's team does not enjoy great success. It is, in fact, the most vilified sports team in China (treatment also extended to the dismal Olympics team). But, apparently having decided enough is enough, the Central Propaganda Department has ordered major news organizations to cease their criticism, two Chinese journalists said. PAGE A6 
 DRIVING DESPITE THE COST
 Gasoline prices of almost $10 a gallon in Europe have reduced driving some. But many Europeans have proved unexpectedly willing to bear the extra cost, raising questions about how effective high prices by themselves can be in achieving Europe's ambitious targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Some experts say that prices may need to go to twice what they are now to promote sustainable reductions. PAGE A7
 ANGUISH OVER A CHILD'S DEATH
 The short version of the nightmarish tale gripping Israel is that police say a 45-year-old man has admitted killing his 4-year-old granddaughter, stuffing her body into a suitcase and dumping it into a river. This was after having lured the child's mother away from his son, the dead girl's father, to be his lover. The longer version only adds to the horror. PAGE A8
 RUSSIA PACT MAY BE A CASUALTY
 President Bush is preparing to scrap his agreement with Russia that was intended to open a new era of civilian nuclear cooperation, administration officials say, the most tangible casualty so far of the deteriorating relations with Russia since its brief war with neighboring Georgia. And with Vice President Dick Cheney heading to Georgia next week, Mr. Bush is also poised to announce about $1 billion in economic aid for Georgia, the officials said. PAGE A6
 VIOLENCE LEAVES MANY HOMELESS
 Recent Christian-Hindu violence in eastern India has left at least 3,000 people, most of them Christians, living in government-run relief camps, government officials said. Many others are said to be living in the jungle without any shelter and security because of the tensions, which erupted in violence after a Hindu leader was killed Saturday. At least 10 people, most of them Christians, have been killed since. PAGE A11
 national
 CALIFORNIA MOVES ON BILL
 To Curtail Urban Sprawl
 California, known for its far-ranging suburbs and slow-moving traffic, is close to adopting a law that is intended to slow the increase in emissions of heat-trapping gases by encouraging housing close to job sites, rail lines and bus stops to reduce the time people spend in their cars. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has not said whether he would sign the bill. PAGE A12
 UPROAR OVER SCHOOL ACCREDITATION
 A county school system in metropolitan Atlanta lost its accreditation, and the governor removed four of its school board members for ethics violations. The accreditation loss and the removal of the board members generated anger and concern about the fate of 52,000 students in the largely black district's 59 schools. ''My daughter has been getting college invitations in the mail every day, even from Harvard. Now who knows?'' said a distraught parent. PAGE A12
 SOME JADED BY HURRICANES
 The mix of nonchalance and unease with which people in New Orleans greet the threat of a hurricane is difficult for outsiders to understand. While some installed plywood over their windows, others simply went to lunch. ''You got to take it on the chin,'' said a contractor. ''You can't run, and you can't hide.'' This unlikely mix was even more evident as Tropical Storm Gustav appeared, certain to hit the Gulf Coast early next week. PAGE A12
 PICK FOR FLORIDA SUPREME COURT
 In a move that drew praise from conservatives, Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida named to the State Supreme Court a former congressman who played a major role in the impeachment of former President Bill Clinton. The appointee, Charles T. Canady, 54, spent eight years in Congress, where he was one of the House managers who handled the impeachment case against Mr. Clinton. PAGE A13
 NEW OBSTACLES FOR DETROIT MAYOR
 Three lawyers are refusing to testify at next week's proceedings by Michigan's governor, Jennifer Granholm, that could lead to the ouster of Detroit's mayor, Kwame M. Kilpatrick. His lawyer said the refusals could harm the mayor's ability to defend himself. Mr. Kilpatrick's political future is threatened not only by the proceedings, but by felony charges that he lied under oath about his affair with his chief of staff and assaulted investigators. PAGE A13
 obituaries
 ABIE NATHAN, 81
 A maverick Israeli peace pioneer, an entrepreneur and a one-man humanitarian-aid organization, who went from playboy to intrepid ''peace pilot.'' page c10
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 A DEATH ANNOUNCED
 On a Windshield
 The 1975 Alfa Romeo was a familiar sight on Plaza Street West in Brooklyn, driven -- when it moved at all -- by Vincent Banescu, an elderly immigrant from Romania who mostly moved it from one side of the street to the other on alternate-side parking days. Sometime in early May, the car stopped moving. Which, in retrospect, could have been a clue. PAGE A21 
 CAUGHT IN A CONTROVERSY
 The political honeymoon after Ronald W. Jones Jr. was sworn in as mayor of Beachwood, N.J., was short. Within weeks, residents began accusing him of abusing his office by using the borough car for personal matters and restricting critics' opportunity to speak at public meetings. Now he is facing calls to resign, fueled in part by the fact that his 24-year-old son, a registered sex offender, has stayed over at the mayor's home. PAGE A21 
 A VACATION WITHOUT VACATING
 There is a word for it now, inspired by people unwilling to face high gas prices and the various miseries of air travel: the ''staycation.'' Of course it's nothing new in many parts of New York City, where people have been staycationing for years without even the benefit of a guidebook. PAGE A20 
 SPORTS
 A WORLD-CLASS TRIATHLETE
 Pauses to Snag Tennis Balls
 Kelly Bruno lost a leg at 6 months, a fact that, if anything, seems to have speeded her up. By 18, she was a track star among disabled athletes, with her own sponsorship deals. Now 24, she is a world-class triathlete and Ironman competitor -- except for the three weeks she is now devoting to shuttle back and forth across courts to scoop up balls at the United States Open. PAGE C15
 ON THE TRAIL OF CHINESE GYMNASTS
 Mike Walker does not care much about gymnastics, and he did not pay much attention to the Olympics. But stories about electronic records reportedly bearing the disputed ages of Chinese gymnasts vanishing off the Internet piqued his professional interest as a computer security specialist, and what he found has helped fuel a controversy still going on. PAGE C14 
 GOLF FORTUNES OTHER THAN MONEY
 The Deutsche Bank Championship begins Friday, and fortunes -- as measured on the FedEx Cup points system -- will rise and fall over 72 holes ending on Labor Day. The adjustments made to the FedEx Cup points system, which already have shaken the standings, could leave some golfers all shook up. PAGE C14 
 BUSINESS
 REVISED FIGURES SHOW
 Economy Expanding Faster
 The economy expanded faster from April to June than originally thought, the government said, news that cheered investors on Wall Street. Gross domestic product rose at a 3.3 percent clip in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said, a significant jump over the original estimate of 1.9 percent growth. The revised figure suggests resilience, but spending by American consumers stayed relatively soft and corporate profits remained weak. PAGE C1
 MORE LEHMAN LAYOFFS
 Lehman Brothers, Wall Street's most troubled firm, is preparing to lay off 1,500 people in its fourth round of cutbacks this year. The looming layoffs, which would amount to about 6 percent of Lehman's work force, are likely to come before the firm reports third-quarter results in mid-September, a person briefed on the plan said. Lehman has already laid off more than 6,000 workers since June 2007. PAGE C1
 JUSTICE EASES PROSECUTOR PRESSURE
 The Justice Department said it was backing away from the practice of pressing companies to share secrets with prosecutors and not pay the legal fees of employees accused of crimes, a shift that came on the same day that a federal appeals court upheld a decision throwing out criminal charges in a case where the tactics were used. PAGE C6
 TOYOTA LOWERS SALES FORECASTS
 Toyota, which is battling General Motors for the title of the world's largest automaker, cut its sales forecasts, warning that higher fuel costs and a slowdown in the United States and Europe would probably hold back the auto business at least through 2009. The Japanese group now expects to sell 9.7 million cars and trucks in 2009, 700,000 fewer than its previous forecast. That is still 2.1 percent higher than the 9.5 million Toyota expects to sell this year. PAGE C3
 IPHONE DISCONNECTIONS
 Apple has sold more than three million iPhone 3G cellphones, but some buyers have been complaining about dropped calls and poor network connections. Some fault Apple, but many others say the problem lies with the carrier AT&T's cellular network -- especially AT&T's gleeful rivals, which hope to take advantage of the situation. PAGE C1
 AUSTIN LOOKS TO WOOD POWER
 Austin, Tex., approved plans for a plant that will burn waste wood to make electricity, the latest sign of rising interest in a long-dormant form of renewable energy. When completed in 2012, the plant will be able to generate 100 megawatts of electricity, enough to power 75,000 homes -- small by coal-fired standards, but large for burning what is known as biomass. PAGE C4
 Oil Producers Prepare for Storm C3
 Weekend
 HOT TIMES, SALSA IN THE CITY
 A Path of Quick Feet and Flavor
 If you had the energy, all you'd need is the knowledge, to dance your feet sore every night of the week. You could chart a course worthy of Magellan, from the Bronx to the East Village in search of classes in the distinctive Latin dance, parties and nonstop action. Professionals and novices alike are welcome, men and women, couples and singles. Find your rhythm. Page E1 
 A FISTFUL OF SAMURAI SWORDS
 A glint of sunlight bounces off the barrel of a peacemaker, or is it a samurai sword? The film ''Sukiyaki Western Django'' is high noon as only Takashi Miike could envision, and Quentin Tarantino acts as master of ceremonies. Lurid and bloody, with an odd color scheme and often purposely stilted dialogue that add to the demented reality Mr. Miike created, A.O. Scott writes. Page E7 
 RAGS AND OLD IRON: A MASTERPIECE
 Scraps of paper, a bit of newsprint; a cardboard tube and the Mona Lisa with a mustache. Appropriation art is finding new uses for existing materials. It is also the theme of ''Pipe, Glass, Bottle of Rum: The Art of Appropriation,'' a new show at the Museum of Modern Art assembled out of its permanent collection. Page E22 
 SONGS OF BRAZIL AND A FAMOUS GIRL
 To say that Leny Andrade is both the Ella Fitzgerald and Sarah Vaughan of bossa nova falls a bit short. More accurate is that within her voice is the same vibration that passes for the heartbeat of Brazil itself. If you think you know ''The Girl From Ipanema,'' you might, but you don't know the woman that Ms. Andrade has turned her into with her rendition of the classic by Astrud Gilberto. Page E3 
 ESCAPES
 WISCONSIN ROADS PROVE
 A Welcome Mat for Bikers
 The countryside might be similar in other parts of rural America, but the needs of the dairy industry for better transportation and a desire to give rural populations easier access to cities led Wisconsin to paving programs decades ago. The resulting absence of gravel roads helps make Wisconsin a natural for bike rides. PAGE F1 
 WEEKENDS AFLOAT
 Dan Brodsky never was much for boats, even though he grew up on Long Island. But when the chance came along to spend his summer weekends aboard a 35-foot houseboat, he signed on. Now he basically has a 400-square-foot floating get-away, with room for friends. PAGE F1 
 Havens: West Wildwood, N.J. F3 
 Rules for Guests F2 
 Editorial
 MR. OBAMA'S PARTY
 One test of a presidential candidate's strength is how much he can mold his party in his image and focus it around a powerful argument for his election. In Denver, Barack Obama made progress on both fronts. page A20
 NOT READY FOR GUSTAV
 Three years after Hurricane Katrina, Gulf Coast residents are nervously watching the progress of Tropical Storm Gustav. No less nerve-racking is the knowledge that FEMA has failed to come up with a new strategy for providing housing to disaster victims. page A20
 FISH TO THE SLAUGHTER
 New York's Indian Point nuclear power plant has a lot of problems, including killing an excessive number of fish in the Hudson River. Regulators need to ensure that the plant is both safe and environmentally sound. page A20
 op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Democrats believe that working Americans are getting a raw deal; Republicans, despite occasional attempts to sound sympathetic, basically believe that people have nothing to complain about. page A21
 DAVID BROOKS
 In case you missed one of the most important speeches given to the delegates at the Democratic National Convention, here is a transcript. page A21
 MY CONVENTION MEMORY
 Recollections of past Democratic conventions, from George McGovern, Gary Hart, John Kerry, Frank Mankiewicz, Geraldine Ferraro, Ted Sorensen and Jesse L. Jackson Sr. page A21

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); SOCCER (70%); EMISSIONS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); CHILDREN (65%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (64%); RELIGION (64%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (61%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); DICK CHENEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); EAST INDIA (79%) GEORGIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



722 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: DEALBOOK EXTRA London's Hot Property

BYLINE: By CYRUS SANATI

 BODY:
London's Hot Property
 There is a battle brewing in the ashes of the British property market.
 Liberty International, a real estate investment trust in London that specializes in shopping malls, appears to be the focus of a takeover battle between the Simon Property Group, based in the United States, and the Westfield Group of Australia. 
 The rumble in London comes as property prices in Britain have plummeted and could be a sign that a bottom has been reached in certain market segments.
 The value of British property stocks have been cut in half since real estate investment trusts were introduced in the country in January 2007. Liberty, which owns London's famous Covent Garden, has fared better than most of its counterparts, falling just 22 percent during the period. The stock may have held its ground as others crumbled because of its primary investment in shopping centers and active buying from opportunistic suitors.
 Westfield reportedly began quietly buying up the stock this June. JPMorgan Chase speculates that Liberty caught wind of Westfield's buying and induced Simon Property to act as a white knight. Simon announced a 3.45 percent stake in the company last Friday. Westfield then revealed it had a 3 percent stake by which Simon responded by increasing its stake to 4.22 percent.
 It is not clear what is going on, as none of the companies have spoken publicly about the rumblings. But the move to acquire a major British shopping REIT as the economy falters and the credit squeeze continues may be good news for the troubled British property market.
 Take a look at the London skyline, above. Property prices in the city of London, Britain's financial heart, have fallen 25 percent in the last year. That is the biggest yearly drop since the city was in a full-blown recession in 1992. Rents in the city, meanwhile, are falling for the first time in four years. 
 CYRUS SANATI 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEON NEAL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (74%); WESTFIELD GROUP (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); SPG (NYSE) (74%); WDC (ASX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (74%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (74%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (58%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



723 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1764 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Presses Drug War, Bolivian Is Antagonist and Uneasy Ally

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CHIMORE, Bolivia 

 BODY:
The refrain here in the Chapare jungle about Americans is short but powerful: ''Long Live Coca, Death to the Yanquis!'' 
 So when President Evo Morales recently came to the area, raising his fist and shouting those words before his supporters, the irony was not lost on an elite wing of the Bolivian military that survives on American support. 
 ''We depend on the Americans for everything: our bonuses, our training, our vehicles, even our boots,'' Lt. Col. Jose German Cuevas, the commander of a Bolivian special forces unit that hunts down cocaine traffickers, said at a military base here in central Bolivia. 
 With Vietnam-era Huey helicopters donated by the United States swirling above the base and dozens of Bolivian officers who have been trained alongside the Green Berets at the School of the Americas in Fort Benning, Ga., Bolivia ranks among the most muddled fronts of the Andean drug war. 
 Mr. Morales, a former grower of coca, the raw ingredient of cocaine, is both an antagonist and an active partner in American antidrug policy for the region. He often describes the United States as his leading adversary and has made the right to grow the coca leaf a top symbol of sovereignty and anti-imperialism. 
 Yet he has also gone to unexpected lengths to restrain coca cultivation, and he accepts about $30 million a year from the United States -- almost his entire antinarcotics budget -- to fight cocaine.
 For now, Mr. Morales and the United States remain uneasy bedfellows. Mr. Morales has been hesitant to sever ties with the United States, especially since it provides Bolivia with about $100 million in development aid each year. It also grants duty-free access for Bolivian textiles, an economic lifeline for his country.
 On the American side, officials argue that a sharp increase in coca cultivation could drive more cocaine to the United States, even though it is currently a negligible market for Bolivian cocaine. A deeper reason may be that the antidrug money gives them a rare window into Mr. Morales's government.
 But this cooperation is coming under increasing strain. Radical parts of Mr. Morales's political base, instrumental in bringing him to power, are chafing at American anti-coca policies, especially here in the Chapare, where coca growers expelled American aid workers last month amid claims that they were conspiring to topple Mr. Morales's government.
 Tensions are raw in the capital, La Paz, as well. Two months ago a mob of 20,000 protesters marched to the gates of the American Embassy, clashing with the police and threatening to burn the building down, prompting the State Department to temporarily recall Ambassador Philip S. Goldberg in protest. After the episode, Mr. Morales praised the demonstrators. 
 ''Evo Morales simply cannot accede to U.S. demands after being democratically elected by a large mass of angry and hungry Indian peasants who see no real alternatives for themselves and their children,'' said Bruce Bagley, an expert on Andean drug policies at the University of Miami. 
 But in a drug war in which contradictions abound, Mr. Morales is doing better than antinarcotics experts feared when he rose to power. 
 At the time, some warned that his presidency would usher in a return to the early 1980s, when military rulers allowed coca output to surge in the Chapare, destabilizing the country. But Mr. Morales has been eager to show that he does not run a narco-state, and working with the Americans helps bolster his international legitimacy. 
 Cultivating Coca
 Coca cultivation has increased during his two years in office, but instead of booming, it has simply climbed, up 8 percent in 2006 and 5 percent in 2007, according to the United Nations. 
 That still places Bolivia far behind the world's largest coca producer, Colombia. Despite being the Bush administration's most ardent ally in the region, Colombia had a 27 percent increase in coca cultivation last year, and remains the top source of cocaine smuggled to the United States. 
 While American officials publicly congratulate Mr. Morales for keeping cultivation from exploding, they are privately pointed in their criticism. ''Let's put it this way: It's going in the wrong direction,'' said an American official at the United States Embassy in La Paz about Mr. Morales's drug policies, speaking anonymously because of tense relations with Bolivia. 
 Still, it is a wonder that Bolivia and the United States remain antinarcotics allies at all, with Mr. Morales chipping away at American influence in Bolivia. 
 Indeed, Mr. Morales has said that the decades of American aid to Bolivia had as much to do with asserting control over puppet governments as with fighting drugs or helping people. Earlier this year, he dissolved an intelligence unit that received American money, and he announced that Bolivia would stop sending officers to receive combat training in the United States.
 Meanwhile, here in the Chapare, the American-backed Anti-Narcotics Special Forces, known as the Leopards, go about their job. Each day at dawn, eight-man teams in camouflage snake out of a military base here in new Nissan Patrol sport utility vehicles, driving down dirt roads into the jungle. Then they get out and walk, chopping through brush with machetes, grasping M-16 rifles, in search of small mobile coca-mashing factories that have pushed Bolivian cocaine production to a 10-year high. When they find one, they set it ablaze. 
 After finding a lab in a clearing in the thick jungle, Lt. Freddy Saenz, 27, said he tried not to think about the pro-coca ideology that had become a defining element of Mr. Morales's presidency. ''We just do our job, trying to destroy the labs,'' said Lieutenant Saenz, sweat falling from his brow. ''Coca will always be a part of life in Bolivia.'' 
 Archaeologists say coca has been grown in the Andes since before Jesus was born. While much of the West associates coca with cocaine, many Bolivians chew it to alleviate altitude sickness, combat hunger pangs or stay alert, a daily ritual much like drinking a latte in rich countries. In some of the fashionable cafes of La Paz, it is not uncommon to be served a plate of coca leaves upon sitting down. 
 'Caldron of Violence'
 Mr. Morales, 48, spent his teenage years in the coca fields of the Chapare after his impoverished family migrated here from the high plains. He then rose through the ranks of the region's coca growers unions in the 1980s and 1990s, a time when American-backed troops were aggressively trying to eradicate every illegal coca plant in Bolivia. 
 In defiance, coca growers, or cocaleros, blockaded crucial roads and clashed with security forces. In a new biography of the president, the Argentine writer Martin Sivak describes one episode in which a group of Leopards beat Mr. Morales after he spoke at a rally, leaving him for dead. A photograph in the book shows the president as a wisp of a young man, lying beaten on a stretcher. 
 ''The Chapare was the caldron of violence out of which Evo was born,'' said Jim Shultz, a political analyst in Cochabamba. ''If there had not been a U.S. war on drugs, there would not have been a President Evo.''
 Now Mr. Morales governs from the presidential palace, where the walls are graced with portraits of him and Che Guevara by Gaston Ugalde, the enfant terrible of Bolivia's art scene who makes collage paintings from coca leaves. But in a twist to his pro-coca thinking, Mr. Morales has also sought to clamp down on cocaine. 
 First, in a nod to coca farmers, he nearly doubled the amount of land that growers can legally devote to growing coca, to about 49,400 acres. But then he tried to make them stick to another rule that prevents them from devoting more than a cato, or less than half an acre, to growing coca.
 Taking a page from cartels like OPEC, organizers in the Chapare coca growers unions, where doctrinaire support of the president is prized, fanned out to convince growers that the limit would dampen supply and keep coca prices stable. 
 The pressure worked on the growers, who were faced with stiff penalties for disobeying. It also helped create rare social peace in the Chapare. Growers earn about $100 a month from coca -- a tidy sum in a country where the minimum wage is about $70 a month -- while complementing that income with crops like rice, bananas and manioc. 
 Signs of relative prosperity have even emerged. A government-financed university to train schoolteachers is set to open soon, with a curriculum in both Quechua, an indigenous language, and Spanish. On weekends, traffic slows to a crawl in towns like Chimore as farmers take their newly acquired used minivans, known here as Surubis, out for a spin. 
 And while Venezuelan-financed projects to turn coca into products like shampoo and toothpaste have yet to materialize, coca farmers do not seem bothered that a large part of their crop becomes cocaine smuggled to Brazil and Argentina, its main markets. 
 ''Now that we have a little money, we are treated like human beings,'' said Maria Eugenia Ledezma, 30, an official with the main coca growers union in the Chapare. ''We'll die fighting before becoming slaves to the Americans or their lackeys in Bolivia.'' 
 Tenuous Cooperation
 While Mr. Morales has directly challenged the United States, among other things requiring visas for American visitors, American officials have generally refrained from sparring publicly with Mr. Morales over coca policies, in part because the cooperation between them is so tenuous.antidrug
 ''Paradoxically, the United States has been far more tolerant of this regime than with governments in the past that were its friends,'' said Roberto Laserna, a political scientist in Cochabamba who studies the cocaine trade.
 This uneasy status quo may be set to change. The Bolivian government was emboldened by a referendum this month, in which Mr. Morales's presidency was ratified by more than 67 percent of voters. Now the government plans to take over antinarcotics projects financed by the United States, according to Felipe Caceres, a coca grower who is Mr. Morales's drug czar, suggesting that Bolivia could become an even more assertive partner.
 The tug of war leaves Colonel Cuevas, the commander of the Leopards' base, in an awkward position, thanking the United States for his livelihood while lauding Mr. Morales's defense of the coca leaf. He smiled, and with a soldier's reserve, pointed to an inscription on one of the walls at the base, ''Atipasunchaj,'' which idealistically proclaims in Quechua, ''We will prevail.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bolivian farmers dry coca leaves, the raw ingredient for cocaine, before selling them at a market.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH FRIEDMAN-RUDOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A Bolivian antidrug unit financed by the United States recently burned down a mobile drug lab in the Chapare region of Bolivia.
 Coca leaves on sale in the Chapare region of Bolivia. ''Coca will always be a part of life in Bolivia,'' one antidrug officer said.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH FRIEDMAN-RUDOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A11) MAP: Limits for coca growers have helped towns like Chimore. Map details area of Chimore. (pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (91%); DRUG POLICY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); MILITARY BASES (76%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); BUDGETS (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); FARM LABOR (69%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); HELICOPTERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); BOLIVIA (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



724 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Carmakers Deserve Federal Loan Guarantees Up to $50 Billion, G.M. Official Says

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: JOLIET, Ill. 

 BODY:
A top General Motors executive said Thursday that automakers were ''deserving'' of as much as $50 billion in government-backed loans so that they can build more fuel-efficient cars.
 G.M.'s vice chairman, Robert A. Lutz, said the car companies need money to retool their plants but probably cannot raise enough capital on their own because of the tight credit markets. He said the automakers have already made considerable progress in transforming themselves and that the government should help them proceed faster.
 ''The American auto industry is deserving of government loan guarantees,'' Mr. Lutz told reporters at an event near Chicago where G.M. showed off its 2009 lineup. ''We have done a whole bunch of things that people said, 'Why aren't you doing this?' '' 
 The automakers, along with the United Automobile Workers union and Michigan lawmakers, are urging Congress to appropriate $3.75 billion to back the $25 billion in loans authorized last year. 
 They also want more money -- up to double the original amount, given the sudden jump in consumer demand for fuel efficiency -- and they are urging Congress to act by the end of September so that the money can be available next year.
 Critics have denounced the loans as a bailout.
 Detroit carmakers have announced plans to revamp numerous truck plants so that they can build the smaller cars and crossover vehicles that have become scarce at many dealers. The cost of each conversion is significant, ranging from $75 million at a Ford plant near Detroit that already had a recent major overhaul to several billion dollars at other facilities.
 Sales of pickups and S.U.V.'s plummeted this year as gasoline prices climbed above $4 a gallon in much of the United States. In July, large S.U.V. sales were down 43 percent, and sales of full-size pickup trucks declined 28 percent. Automakers have been offering substantial discounts on some models and shutting down the plants that make them to keep inventories from growing larger.
 But Mr. Lutz said that interest in trucks had begun to rebound and that big vehicles ''still represent a great opportunity to register sales.'' Since mid-July, the average price of regular gas nationwide has fallen 45 cents, or 11 percent, according to the AAA motor club.
 ''We've been hearing from some of our dealers that pickup sales have bottomed -- same with S.U.V.'s,'' Mr. Lutz said. ''There has been some resurgence of demand for full-size pickups and sport utilities. Many people still simply need to buy a truck.''
 Still, August is expected to be dismal for G.M. and most other automakers. Edmunds.com on Thursday projected that total sales for the month would be 14.4 percent lower than a year ago and that G.M.'s sales would be down 27.5 percent. Sales would also be down at Chrysler, Ford and Toyota, Edmunds said.
 G.M. said it was seeing a good response to its current promotion, which offers ''employee pricing'' to all buyers, but Edmunds said big discounts had been overshadowed by the high gas prices and sluggish economy.
 ''Over all, the program has not been nearly as effective as its first implementation back in 2005,'' the director of industry analysis at Edmunds, Jesse Toprak, said.
 The falloff in truck sales has been devastating to the Detroit automakers because those vehicles historically have generated the most profit. 
 Mr. Lutz said small cars would become considerably more expensive, filling some of the void created by the evaporation of big profits from trucks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Lutz, of General Motors, cited tight credit markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (94%); AUTOMAKERS (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (53%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



725 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths YOUNG, ROBERT WINTHROP JR

 BODY:
 YOUNG--Robert Winthrop Jr . Developed Ajax, Baggies, and Palmolive. Robert Winthrop Young, Jr., 85, the marketing expert who developed the House of Ajax ad its widely successful advertising campaign (the White Knight and the White Tornado), died August 26 after a long battle with cancer. Mr. Young was raised in Greenwich, CT and graduated from the St. Paul's School, Harvard College and Harvard Business School. A veteran of WWII, he joined the army his first year at Harvard. 
He attended Officer Candidate School in New Orleans, and was stationed in Alaska, where he served as a first lieutenant. Mr. Young was considered one of the leading experts in the development and marketing of new products. An executive with the Colgate-Palmolive company from 1959-1969 (General Manager, Household Product Division; Vice-President and Corporate Director of Marketing-Worldwide), he created a domestic new products development program, and similar programs worldwide. Under his innovative direction, Colgate developed a number of enduring successful product lines, including Ajax, Baggies, Palmolive and Fab. Mr. Young began his career with the Procter & Gamble Company, and then entered the field of advertising. In 1953, as an entrepreneur, and with his brother Andrew Plimpton Young (deceased), he started Golden Gift, Inc., the first company to market orange juice in cartons. The company was sold profitably in 1956 as the product form grew into a significant industry. Mr. Young then served as Vice-President of Kenyon & Eckhardt Advertising, where he supervised such diverse accounts as Lever Bros., Chase Bank, McKesson & Robbins, and Beecham Ltd. His corporate endeavors also reflected an altruistic and expansive approach to product development and marketing. While at Colgate he used the concept of ''inventing backward'' to invent a hand - operated washing machine for women living without electricity in underdeveloped areas of the world. His long-time collaborator Richard Walton created the machine itself, the ''Walton Washer,'' which was manufactured by Colgate in Mexico and sold for less than $10 throughout Central and South America. He resigned from Colgate in 1969 to pursue a solo career as a marketing and consultant and President of his own company, The Young Group, Inc. He continued to collaborate with Richard Walton on a diverse array of inventions, including a process to substantially decrease the tar inhaled when smoking cigarettes and a plush toy that plays the sound of a beating heart to soothe newborns. His creativity was not confined to the business world and new product development. He enjoyed a lifelong love of singing and performing, beginning as a boy soprano soloist in Greenwich, CT. He went on to sing with the Westminster Choir, in his own radio show as a First Lieutenant in the Army during World War II, as a member of the Hasty Pudding Club at Harvard (performing on stage with Jack Lemmon), then in Gilbert & Sullivan shows produced by the New York based Blue Hill Troupe, of which he became President. One of his favorite shows was the HMS Pinafore, in which he played the leading role. Later in life, after moving to Virginia, he sang baritone with the choir at Trinity Episcopal Church in Upperville, and performed in the two-character play Love Letters. Mr. Young also wrote short stories, poetry, and song lyrics. In his late 70s and early 80s he wrote the book and lyrics, and composer David Oliver wrote the music, for the show ''About Face.'' The show was performed by the Middleburg Players in Middleburg, Virginia, under the guidance of their founder Jean Gold. He was a graduate of the St. Paul's School and of Harvard (1945), where he served as an Editor of the National Lampoon. He was also a member of many clubs throughout his life, including the A.D. Club and Hasty Pudding Club at Harvard, the Racquet and Tennis Club (NYC), the Leash (NYC), the Chatham Yacht Club (Cape Cod, MA), the Piping Rock Country Club (Locust Valley, NY), the Shinnecock Golf Club (South Hampton, NY) and the Army-Navy Club (Washington, DC). He is survived by his wife of 37 years, Margot Airey Young, daughters Marie Bates of Greenwich, CT, Ellen Enns of Seattle, WA and Tracy Wells of Madison, NJ, step-daughter Honore Ryan and stepson Colvin Gregg Ryan, nephew Andrew Young, six grandchildren, two greatgrandchildren, and two grandnieces. In lieu of flowers, please make donations in his name to: Blue Ridge Hospice 333 West Cork Street, Winchester, VA 22601. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); CHILDREN (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); SMOKING (72%); POWER FAILURES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (62%)

COMPANY: COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (85%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (68%)

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (85%); PGP (PAR) (68%); PG (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (68%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%); SOUTH AMERICA (74%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



726 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: Framing Goals, Obama Takes the Fight to McCain

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JEFF ZELENY; Reporting was contributed by Kitty Bennett, Janet Elder, Carl Hulse, Michael Luo and Jim Rutenberg.

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Barack Obama accepted the Democratic Party presidential nomination on Thursday, declaring that the ''American promise has been threatened'' by eight years under President Bush and that John McCain represented a continuation of policies that undermined the nation's economy and imperiled its standing around the world.
 The speech by Senator Obama, in front of an audience of nearly 80,000 people on a warm night in a football stadium refashioned into a vast political stage for television viewers, left little doubt how he intended to press his campaign against Mr. McCain this fall.
 In cutting language, and to cheers that echoed across the stadium, he linked Mr. McCain to what he described as the ''failed presidency of George W. Bush'' and -- reflecting what has been a central theme of his campaign since he entered the race -- ''the broken politics in Washington.'' 
 ''America, we are better than these last eight years,'' he said. ''We are a better country than this.''
 But Mr. Obama went beyond attacking Mr. McCain by linking him to Mr. Bush and his policies. In the course of a 42-minute speech that ended with a booming display of fireworks and a shower of confetti, he offered searing and far-reaching attacks on his presumptive Republican opponent, repeatedly portraying him as the face of the old way of politics and failed Republican policies.
 He said Mr. McCain was out of touch with the problems of everyday Americans. ''It's not because John McCain doesn't care,'' he said. ''It's because John McCain doesn't get it.''
 And he went so far as to attack the presumed strength of Mr. McCain's campaign, national security. ''You know, John McCain likes to say that he'll follow bin Laden to the gates of hell, but he won't even follow him to the cave where he lives,'' he said.
 The speech loomed as arguably Mr. Obama's most important of the campaign to date. It was an opportunity to present himself to Americans just now beginning to tune in on this campaign, to make the case against Mr. McCain and to offer what many Democrats say he has failed to offer to date: an idea of what he stands for, beyond a promise of change.
 To that end, he emphasized what he described as concrete steps he would take to address the anxieties of working-class Americans, promising tax cuts for the middle class and pledging to wean the country from dependence on Middle East oil within 10 years to address high fuel prices.
 With the speech, Mr. Obama closed out his party's convention here and prepared for a quick shift of public attention to the Republicans as Mr. McCain moved to name his running mate and his party got ready for its convention in St. Paul on Monday.
 He delivered it in a most unconventional setting, becoming the third nominee of a major party in the nation's history to leave the site of his convention to give his acceptance speech at a stadium. In this case, it was Invesco Field, set against the Rockies and about a mile from the arena where he had been nominated the night before. His aides chose the stadium to signal a break from typical politics and to permit thousands of his supporters from across the country to hear him speak.
 And it came on a night that offered -- by the coincidence of scheduling -- a reminder of the historic nature of the Obama candidacy: 45 years to the day after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his ''I Have a Dream'' speech on the Mall in Washington. Mr. Obama is the first African-American to be nominated for the White House by a major party, a fact that, for all its significance, has been barely mentioned over the course of this four-day gathering.
 Even in invoking the anniversary of the King speech, Mr. Obama only alluded to race. But he quoted a famous phrase from Dr. King's address to reinforce a central theme of his own speech. ''America, we cannot turn back,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Not with so much work to be done.''
 Mr. McCain marked the occasion of the speech by releasing a television advertisement in which, looking into the camera, he paid tribute to Mr. Obama and his accomplishment. ''How perfect that your nomination would come on this historic day,'' Mr. McCain said. ''Tomorrow, we'll be back at it. But tonight, Senator, job well done.
 The advertisement stood in stark contrast to a summer of slashing attacks on Mr. Obama by Mr. McCain that apparently contributed to the tightening of this race. And the softer tone did not last; Mr. Obama was still on the stage, watching the fireworks, when Mr. McCain's campaign issued a statement attacking him. 
 ''Tonight, Americans witnessed a misleading speech that was so fundamentally at odds with the meager record of Barack Obama,'' said Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for Mr. McCain.
 In his speech, Mr. Obama scored Mr. McCain for raising questions about his patriotism, and trying, he said, to turn a big election into a fight on small squabbles.
 ''I love this country, and so do you, and so does John McCain,'' Mr. Obama said, an American flag lapel affixed to his left lapel. ''The men and women who serve in our battlefields may be Democrats and Republicans and Independents, but they have fought together and bled together and some died together under the same proud flag.''
 ''So I've got news for you, John McCain: We all put our country first,'' he said, prompting the crowd to break into a chant of ''U.S.A., U.S.A.''
 Mr. Obama looked completely at ease and unintimidated by his task or the huge crowd that surrounded him. And he chastised Mr. McCain for trying to portray him as a celebrity, an attack aides say has been particularly damaging, offering a list of people who he said had inspired him, from his grandmother to an unemployed factory worker he met on the campaign trail.
 ''I don't know what kind of lives John McCain thinks that celebrities lead, but this has been mine,'' he said. ''These are my heroes. Theirs are the stories that shaped me. And it is on behalf of them that I intend to win this election and keep our promise alive as president of the United States.''
 Mr. Obama delivered his speech on a day of considerable political churn. Even as Mr. McCain was paying tribute to Mr. Obama on television, his aides disclosed that he made a choice for vice president and would announce it on Friday, timing intended to draw attention away from Mr. Obama on a day in which he and his running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., would be starting a joint campaign swing.
 Mr. Obama's audience began lining up to go through security and enter the stadium eight hours before he was to speak. As seats filled, they watched a series of musical performances, including by Stevie Wonder, who sang, ''Signed, Sealed, Delivered I'm Yours.'' 
 But the table for Mr. Obama was also set by speeches from some of the best-known Democratic leaders. They were led by Al Gore, the former vice president who confronted a question that has, fairly or not, hovered over Mr. Obama as he struggles in his contest with Mr. McCain.
 ''Why is this election so close?'' Mr. Gore asked. ''Well I know something about close elections, so let me offer you my opinion. I believe this election is close today mainly because the forces of the status quo are desperately afraid of the change Barack Obama represents.''
 Mr. Obama used much of his speech to link Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush -- a line of attack that his aides view as their strongest going into the fall -- and signaled thathe saw next week's Republican convention, when Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush are to appear together, albeit briefly, as a way to press that line of attack.
 ''Next week, in Minnesota, the same party that brought you two terms of George Bush and Dick Cheney will ask this country for a third,'' he said. ''And we are here because we love this country too much to let the next four years look just like the last eight. On Nov. 4, we must stand up and say: 'Eight is enough.' '' 
 Speaking in generally broad terms, Mr. Obama offered a contrast between Republican and Democratic views of the role of government. 
 ''We measure the strength of our economy not by the number of billionaires we have or the profits of the Fortune 500,'' he said, ''but by whether someone with a good idea can take a risk and start a business, or whether the waitress who lives on tips can take a day off to look after a sick kid without losing her job -- an economy that honors the dignity of work.''
 The outdoor acceptance speech was by any measure a risky gambit by a campaign that has shown a taste for taking chances and breaking with convention, as his aides acknowledged. Bad weather could have soaked the moment. Mr. Obama's first question to aides when they proposed this was, ''Will it rain?'' It did not; the day was dry, if hot.
 When John F. Kennedy held his outdoor rally at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in June 1960, half the seats were empty, as a dispatch in The New York Times noted in dismissively describing the event as a ''fresh air vaudeville.'' The stadium here was packed by 5:15 mountain time, three hours before Mr. Obama was to take the stage, after a week in which Democrats and Obama supporters had been hustling for tickets.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about Senator Barack Obama's acceptance of the Democratic presidential nomination misstated a word in a quotation from his speech. Although Mr. Obama's prepared remarks referred to ''the failed presidency of George W. Bush,'' he changed the reference to the failed ''policies'' of Mr. Bush when he delivered the speech.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama accepted the presidential nomination on Thursday night in Denver. An interactive video and transcript of his speech: nytimes.com/politics.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his wife, Jill, with Senator Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, faced a crowd of nearly 80,000 people on Thursday night at Invesco Field in Denver.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Biden, the vice-presidential nominee, was scheduled to leave Denver and campaign with Mr. Obama on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



727 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Lofty Words Down to Earth

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Good, great or something else, Senator Barack Obama's acceptance speech Thursday night unquestionably confronted two of his greatest challenges.
 One was to help voters, in emotion-laden language, to connect his promise of ''change'' to more earthly policy proposals, the other to show he could take the fight to Senator John McCain over Mr. Obama's own image and the best way forward for the nation.
 Mr. Obama showed real fire, and directed memorable fire at his opponent, even on Mr. McCain's signature issue, national security. ''If John McCain wants to have a debate about who has the temperament and judgment to serve as the next commander in chief, that's a debate I'm ready to have,'' he said. 
 Mr. Obama is a natural speechmaker, as Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton reminded voters (in a negative way) throughout their primary battle. He has always excelled at making the best case for himself, never more so than in his breakthrough speech -- probably his best one yet -- at the 2004 Democratic National Convention. 
 And if this convention was dominated by the legacy of the Kennedy family on Monday night, and by the contributions and complications of the Clintons on Tuesday and Wednesday night, the spotlight shifted forward to the next generation of leadership when Mr. Obama took center stage.
 It is almost a cliche of this election that many Americans, despite a 20-month-old campaign, still lack a strong notion of who Mr. Obama is. In the most personal sense, his speech was not particularly illuminating on this score. He spent far more time talking about struggling Americans whose hopes he related to than wearing his emotions on his sleeve or reaching across history's divide to talk about race. 
 But Mr. Obama's purpose, obviously, was to open a direct channel between his candidacy and the personal lives of Americans, rather than open up about himself.
 This was no more true, in fact, than on the matter of race. Rather than call out biases, as John F. Kennedy did in the part of his 1960 acceptance speech that dealt with anti-Catholicism, Mr. Obama sought to transcend race and find a plane of unity. Invoking the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s ''I Have a Dream'' speech, he recalled ''Americans from every corner of this land'' crowding together before the Lincoln Memorial, and the common embrace they experienced.
 He repeated Dr. King's words: ''We cannot walk alone.''
 Reaching his hand out this way, it seems likely, will not be enough to solve his political problems in the counties of western Pennsylvania and southern Ohio, where he performed so poorly in the primaries this spring. But just as likely, it seems like a start.
 Mr. McCain has portrayed Mr. Obama as a politician who, no matter his promise, is not prepared for the presidency. And he has arguably been effective in doing so, given the tightness of the race despite so much American anger over the economy and widespread American disappointment about the state of the world.
 Mr. Obama, in directly challenging the ''celebrity'' image that Mr. McCain has tagged him with, turned to his own portrayal of the ''heroes'' to whom he related: the unemployed factory worker who reminded him of his young adulthood in Chicago, the woman trying to start her own business who reminded him of his grandmother, who rose to a management job after years of losing promotions because she was a woman.
 In doing so, Mr. Obama tackled what has become a problem for him: winning over working women -- especially working-class and minimum-wage women -- and blue-collar men who are skeptical that he understands the struggles of people like themselves. His paean to measuring economic progress based on whether ''the waitress who lives on tips can take a day off to look after a sick kid'' was a direct plea to these voters: I am one of you, and John McCain is not.
 Time and again, Mr. Obama took the fight to Mr. McCain. Even on national security, which is not Mr. Obama's area of expertise, the former law professor sought to school the former Navy hero in how to win a war.
 ''You don't defeat a terrorist network that operates in 80 countries by occupying Iraq,'' he said. ''You don't protect Israel and deter Iran just by talking tough in Washington. You can't truly stand up for Georgia when you've strained our oldest alliances. If John McCain wants to follow George Bush with more tough talk and bad strategy, that is his choice, but that is not the change that America needs.''
 Mrs. Clinton once said that Mr. McCain had real experience while Mr. Obama's candidacy had been the sum of so many speeches. Mr. Obama's journey over the last 20 months has introduced him to many of the American archetypes -- real people -- that he described in this speech. On Thursday night, the speechmaker showed, in words, that he was also a man of experience, and a man who wanted to give something back to the people who gave it to him.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama accepted the presidential nomination on Thursday night in Denver. An interactive video and transcript of his speech: nytimes.com/politics.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (66%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (52%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



728 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Obama's Party

 BODY:
One test of a presidential candidate's strength, and often his best shot at winning, is how much he can mold his party in his image and rally it around a powerful argument for his election. Barack Obama left Denver having made significant progress on both fronts. 
 The Democratic Party today is different from the one that lost the last two presidential elections. It is bigger, younger and less visibly linked to traditional Democratic interest groups. 
 Mr. Obama long ago proved his skills as an orator. He went further on Thursday night, using his acceptance speech to add detail to his promises of hope and showcase a new theme that could find resonance with Democrats, new and old, and a broader range of Americans.
 Government, Mr. Obama argued, cannot solve all of the country's problems. But he said it has basic responsibilities to do what individual Americans cannot do themselves -- ''protect us from harm and provide every child a decent education; keep our water clean and our toys safe; invest in new schools and new roads and new science and technology.''
 He said that government had failed in those duties under President Bush.
 He tied his opponent, John McCain, tightly to Mr. Bush and to an ''old, discredited Republican philosophy -- give more and more to those with the most and hope that prosperity trickles down to everyone else.'' He said what ''that really means is you're on your own.''
 Mr. Obama promised to rewrite Mr. Bush's tax code to restore fairness to working people and take away economy-busting breaks for the wealthiest Americans. He promised universal health insurance. He offered a grand, perhaps grandiose, vision of ending America's dependence on Middle Eastern oil in a decade.
 And he challenged Mr. McCain's absurd charge that because Mr. Obama opposed the war in Iraq, he will leave America defenseless. ''We are the party of Roosevelt,'' he said. ''We are the party of Kennedy. So don't tell me that Democrats won't defend this country.''
 The party rallying around Mr. Obama in Denver looked noticeably different. Part of that is real: his campaign's unprecedented registration drives have brought many new voters into the party and, we hope, permanently into the democratic process as a whole. 
 Part, we suspect, was stage management. There was little display in the convention hall, and even less in prime-time broadcasts, of the placards of the teachers' and service workers' unions, of the National Abortion Rights Action League and the Sierra Club.
 That reflected the Obama campaign's sound analysis that American voters mistrust interest groups -- except their own -- and its brash conviction that Mr. Obama's drawing power is so strong that they can win without giving these groups prominence. 
 Whether this is all visuals -- or the start of a new brand of politics -- is hard to tell. We have noted too much tactical triangulation in Mr. Obama's campaign. He has dropped some of the vital themes of his early candidacy, including his withering criticism of Mr. Bush's abuses of power, and he wavered on illegal wiretapping. 
 Mr. Obama's strategists believe their route to victory lies in the careful selection of battleground states, and in the vast expansion of their base of voters. That won the primaries, but he has to repeat that performance on a far larger stage. The bulk of the voters his team is registering are younger, first-time voters and minority voters whose turnout is always dubious.
 We are skeptical of slogans, but there is a refreshing audacity -- another of Mr. Obama's favorite words -- in the strategy that he and his team have chosen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); ABORTION (50%); TAX LAW (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



729 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Russia Deal May Fall, A Casualty Of Conflict

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Just three months ago, President Bush reached a long-sought agreement with Russia intended to open a new era of civilian nuclear cooperation and sent it to Congress for review. Now, according to administration officials, Mr. Bush is preparing to scrap his own deal.
 The imminent collapse of the nuclear deal, once a top Bush priority, represents the most tangible casualty so far of the deteriorating relations with Russia following its brief war with neighboring Georgia. With Vice President Dick Cheney heading to Georgia next week, Mr. Bush is also poised to announce about $1 billion in economic aid to the country, the officials said. 
 Unlike more symbolic actions being discussed in Washington, like throwing Russia out of the Group of 8 industrialized nations, canceling the nuclear pact would involve concrete consequences potentially worth billions of dollars to Russia. Yet it also would mean unraveling an initiative that was critical to Mr. Bush's vision of safely spreading civilian nuclear energy around the world, a program that relied in part on Russian involvement.
 The agreement would have reversed decades of bipartisan policy and allowed extensive commercial nuclear trade, technology transfers and joint research between Russia and the United States. It also would have cleared the way for Russia to import, store and possibly reprocess spent nuclear fuel from American-supplied reactors around the world -- a lucrative business for Russia and a way for the United States to build nuclear plants while keeping radioactive waste out of less reliable hands.
 The pact already faced deep skepticism in Congress because of Russia's resistance to tougher action against Iran over its nuclear program. But it might have cleared the legislative review process if not for the clash between Russia and Georgia. Now Bush administration officials have concluded it will not survive a Congressional vote, and say that withdrawing it would send a signal to Moscow yet preserve the possibility of resubmitting it to Congress next year if tensions ease.
 ''The administration is just about at the point of making a decision to pull it,'' said a senior administration official, who requested anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. ''We're getting pretty close to that.'' The official added that an announcement by the president ''could happen any time soon.''
 Other officials cautioned that Mr. Bush had made no final decision and might wait to see what came out of a meeting of European Union heads of state on Monday. The White House press secretary, Dana M. Perino, said there would be consequences for Russia but declined to discuss them. ''We just aren't there yet,'' she said. ''It's premature to say.''
 But some experts on Russia and on nuclear proliferation said Mr. Bush had few options. ''This agreement is probably going to be the first casualty of Georgia,'' said Robert Nurick, a nonproliferation specialist at the Monterey Institute of International Studies. ''Whatever you may think of the merits, there's no point in bashing your head against the wall.''
 While Mr. Bush ponders his options, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, the Democratic presidential nominee, and his running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, met separately on Thursday with a Georgian delegation visiting the party convention in Denver. 
 ''He wanted to show solidarity and show that he's engaged on this very important foreign policy issue,'' said Michael McFaul, an Obama adviser. 
 Meanwhile, Cindy McCain, the wife of Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, visited Georgia this week as part of a humanitarian mission.
 At the White House, the nuclear pact and the economic package are at the top of a menu of options being debated by senior officials. Officials said they were still finalizing the aid package, which they estimated would be in the $1 billion range. Other ideas include rebuilding the shattered Georgian military and aggressively investigating Russian business transactions in the West in search of corrupt practices, officials said.
 John P. Hannah, the vice president's national security adviser, would not discuss administration plans, but told reporters on Thursday that in Georgia Mr. Cheney would deliver ''a clear and simple message that the United States has a deep and abiding interest in the well-being and security of this part of the world.''
 The nuclear deal was broached by Mr. Bush during a July 2006 visit to Russia, and the two governments spent two years shaping a formal agreement before signing it in Moscow in May on the day before Vladimir V. Putin, who is now prime minister, stepped down as president. The United States already has similar agreements with Europe, China, Japan and other countries.
 The pact does not require Congressional approval but must be reviewed on Capitol Hill for 90 legislative days before it can go into effect. Congress could block the deal with majority votes in both houses or it could proactively approve it without waiting for the clock to expire.
 Senator Biden, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, had introduced a bipartisan measure to approve the deal, and his House counterpart, Representative Howard L. Berman of California, had pushed through committee a measure approving it with conditions. But now neither predicts it will pass. ''Even before Georgia, there were real issues,'' Mr. Berman said. ''This came along, and there's just no appetite for it now.''
 The issue prompted an intense debate within the administration, with some advocates of the agreement arguing for just leaving it alone because the 90-day period would probably not be completed this year, anyway, requiring the clock to restart next year. 
 ''At the moment, people are worried that the current crisis in Georgia will make it harder to insulate the nonproliferation cooperation from the wider difficulties in the relationship,'' said Robert J. Einhorn, a former assistant secretary of state for nonproliferation. 
 Critics of the agreement, though, said the president should not only withdraw it but also vow not to resubmit it next year. ''Without taking these actions, the administration's tough talk should be viewed as white noise,'' said Henry D. Sokolski, executive director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center, based in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); NUCLEAR WASTE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



730 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Feeling No Pain

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
My first reaction to Bill Clinton's convention speech was sheer professional jealousy: nobody, but nobody, has his ability to translate economic wonkery into plain, forceful English. In effect, Mr. Clinton provided an executive summary of the new Census report on income, poverty and health insurance -- but he did it so eloquently, so seamlessly, that there was no sense that he was giving his audience a lecture.
 My second reaction was that in Mr. Clinton's speech -- as in the speeches by Hillary Clinton and Joe Biden (this column was filed before Barack Obama spoke on Thursday night) -- one heard the fundamental difference between the two parties. Democrats say and, as far as I can tell, really believe that working Americans are getting a raw deal; Republicans, despite occasional attempts to sound sympathetic, basically believe that people have nothing to complain about. 
 As it happens, the numbers support the Democrats. 
 That Census report gives a snapshot of the economic status of American families in 2007 -- that is, before the financial crisis started dragging the economy down and the unemployment rate up. It's a given that 2008 will look much worse, so last year was as good as it will get in the Bush years. Yet working-age Americans had significantly lower median income in 2007 than they did in 2000. (The elderly, whose income is supported by Social Security -- the program the Bush administration tried to kill -- saw modest gains.) Meanwhile, poverty was up, and health insurance -- especially the employment-based insurance on which most middle-class Americans depend -- was down.
 But Republicans, very much including John McCain and his advisers, don't believe there's a problem. 
 Former Senator Phil Gramm made headlines, and stepped down as co-chairman of the McCain campaign, after he described America as a ''nation of whiners.'' But how different was that remark, really, from Mr. McCain's own declaration that ''there's been great progress economically'' -- progress that's mysteriously invisible in the actual data -- during the Bush years? And Mr. Gramm, by all accounts, remains a key economic adviser to Mr. McCain.
 Last week John Goodman, an influential figure in Republican health care circles, explained that we shouldn't worry about the growing number of Americans without health insurance, because there's no such thing as being uninsured. After all, you can always get treatment at an emergency room. And Mr. Goodman -- he's the president of the National Center for Policy Analysis, an important conservative think tank, and is often described as the ''father of health savings accounts,'' a central feature of the Bush administration's health policy -- wants the next president to issue an executive order prohibiting the Census Bureau from classifying anyone as uninsured. ''Voila!'' he says. ''Problem solved.''
 The truth, of course, is that visiting the emergency room in a medical crisis is no substitute for regular care. Furthermore, while a hospital will treat you whether or not you can pay, it will also bill you -- and the bill won't be waived unless you're destitute. As a result, uninsured working Americans avoid visiting emergency rooms if at all possible, because they're terrified by the potential cost: medical expenses are one of the prime causes of personal bankruptcy. 
 Mr. Goodman has in the past, including in an op-ed for The Wall Street Journal, described himself as an adviser to the McCain campaign on health policy. The campaign now claims that he is not, in fact, an adviser. But it's a good bet that Mr. McCain's inner circle shares Mr. Goodman's views.
 You see, Mr. Goodman's assertion that lack of health insurance is no problem precisely echoed what President Bush said a year ago: ''I mean, people have access to health care in America. After all, you just go to an emergency room.'' That's because both men -- like Mr. Gramm -- were just saying in public what modern Republicans say when they talk to each other. Despite attempts to feign sympathy, the leaders of today's G.O.P. fundamentally feel that Americans complaining about their economic and health care difficulties are, well, just a bunch of whiners. 
 And that, ultimately, even more than their policy proposals, is what defines the difference between the parties.
 It's true that elected Democrats are often too cautious -- and too beholden to major donors -- to be as progressive as the party's activists would like. But even in the face of a Republican Congress, Mr. Clinton succeeded in pushing forward policies, like the State Children's Health Insurance Program, that did a lot to help working families. 
 And what one sees on the other side is a total lack of empathy for and understanding of the problems working Americans face. Mr. Clinton, famously, felt our pain. Republicans, manifestly, don't. And it's hard to fix a problem if you don't even think it exists. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CENSUS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CONSERVATISM (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); PHIL GRAMM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



731 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Try to Minimize Stadium's Political Risks

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
When Senator Barack Obama announced in early July that he would give his nomination address in an outdoor stadium in front of 75,000 people, he wowed members of both parties who saw it as an inspired stroke of campaign image making.
 But as he landed here on Wednesday and prepared to become the first presidential candidate in nearly 50 years to accept his party's nomination on such a big stage, the plan seemed as much risky as bold.
 With daunting challenges of logistics, style and substance, the plan was hatched before the Republicans began a concerted drive to paint Mr. Obama as a media sensation lacking the resume to be president. Now Obama aides are feeling all the more pressure to bring a lofty candidacy to ground level, showing that Mr. Obama grasps the concerns of everyday Americans.
 On Thursday afternoon, workers were still making changes to Invesco Field, home to the Denver Broncos, so it would feel more intimate, less like the boisterous rallies that served Mr. Obama so well early in the primaries, but also created the celebrity image that dogs him. (Wary of the field's corporate-sounding name, Obama campaign spokespeople and surrogates were referring to it with the name of the stadium it replaced, Mile High.) 
 They were still testing camera angles to the very end, so Mr. Obama would appear among the giant crowd, not above it. They took steps to reduce the echo effect, familiar to football fans, of speaking in such a cavernous space. Planners scrapped their idea to turn the audience of 75,000 into a giant phone bank, in response to fears that the cellphone system would crash (people will instead be asked to text-message friends and neighbors to support the campaign, program aides said would be effective nonetheless.) 
 And workers put the finishing touches on the backdrop: faux columns intended to suggest a federal building in Washington and create an air of stateliness. (The McCain campaign named it the Temple of Obama, a label repeated by some commentators.)
 Mr. Obama had shared his rationale for the move when he took the stage at the Pepsi Center on Wednesday night. ''We're going to be moving to Mile High Stadium tomorrow, and I want to let you know why,'' he said. ''We want to open up this convention to make sure that everybody that wants to come can join in the party and join in the effort to take America back.''
 Yet for Mr. Obama, the dramatic setting of the speech, which will take place between 10 and 11 p.m. Eastern time, stands in contrast to the ''workmanlike'' message he intends to offer.
 ''I'm not aiming for a lot of high rhetoric,'' he said Wednesday. ''I am much more concerned with communicating how I intend to help middle-class families live their lives.''
 On Thursday, Mr. Obama was putting the finishing touches on what is being billed as the most important speech of his career so far, in a year that has been filled with them. 
 Mr. Obama had holed up in a Chicago hotel over the weekend, and worked on the address well into the night this week with a small group of aides. He has studied several acceptance speeches, including Bill Clinton's in 1992, Ronald Reagan's in 1980 and John F. Kennedy's in 1960. 
 Some aides worried about the setting overwhelming the message. But those closest to the planning said they had no regrets and were sticking to the sort of big-event politics that no other candidate has been able to match this year.
 ''We are leaning into this, how can you not?'' said Jenny Backus, a campaign strategist working on the convention plan. ''This is the enthusiasm gap,'' referring to what polls show as excitement for Mr. Obama that Senator John McCain's campaign has not matched. 
 There was a giddy, country fair atmosphere at the stadium on Thursday afternoon. For all of their complaints about the move from the Pepsi Center to the stadium -- which they found out about only two months ago -- network producers, anchors and techies seemed glad to be out on the field as Stevie Wonder did a sound check on the dais, preparing for an appearance tonight. 
 And aides to Mr. Obama expressed new confidence after what some perceived as an upbeat turn in their convention, which had been dominated by news of lingering resentment from supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton -- which seemed to have come to a close, at the convention, at least, with former President Bill Clinton's forceful endorsement of Mr. Obama as ''ready'' on Wednesday night. 
 The night -- capped by an address by Senator Joe Biden, and a late appearance by Mr. Obama -- sent delegates to their new convention home with an extra bounce in their steps that was evident in the stadium this morning.
 Dee Dee Myers, a former press secretary to President Clinton, said that delegates in the hall have been excited about the stadium event but that it was the party's senior strategists who were more wary of the setting.
 ''There's a concern in the campaign about how do you pull this off in a way that makes it about the economic themes they want to hit,'' Ms. Myers said. ''He needs to get from the stadium to the diner, and it's a hard thing to pull off.''
 Mr. Obama's aides had hoped to upend the traditional convention style. But the prolonged primary fight with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton left the convention in the hands of the party's career planners. Their flashy stage design, which has been likened to an arcade, had none of the look or feel of the more spare style of the Obama brand. 
 When a close circle of his top advisers presented Mr. Obama with $6 million plans to move his acceptance speech to the football stadium in early July, the candidate asked one question, said Anita Dunn, a senior strategist: ''Will it rain?'' The campaign produced a raft of meteorological data showing it had rained on Aug. 28 only once in 20 years. (Aides were alarmed, however, to arrive in Denver on Sunday to news of a nearby tornado. The weather reporters were predicting clear skies for Thursday night's address.)
 Peter Gage, one of the Obama planners, said he had studied photographs of Kennedy's speech at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, the only other such address to be held in an outdoor stadium in the modern television era.
 Mr. Gage said the circular stage in Denver was inspired by Kennedy's. A Sky Cam above the field will provide bird's-eye views. Mr. Obama's family will sit on seats on the floor before him, along with voters from swing states. The goal is to highlight ordinary people, and then mobilize them to work for the campaign.
 The Obama campaign dismissed Republican attempts to turn the night against them.
 ''I know that Senator McCain and his people are shooting barbs on the opulence of our convention from the mountaintop in Sedona from the McCain estate,'' said David Axelrod, the campaign's chief strategist. ''I don't think it warrants a response.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (73%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS FANS (73%); TEXT MESSAGING (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%)

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DENVER BRONCOS (56%)

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (91%) COLORADO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



732 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BARACK OBAMA; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: In His Own Words

 BODY:
Thursday night at the Democratic National Convention in Denver, as transcribed by CQ Transcriptions. A full transcript: nytimes.com/politics. 
 '' We meet at one of those defining moments, a moment when our nation is at war, our economy is in turmoil, and the American promise has been threatened once more.
 Tonight, more Americans are out of work and more are working harder for less. More of you have lost your homes and even more are watching your home values plummet. More of you have cars you can't afford to drive, credit cards, bills you can't afford to pay, and tuition that's beyond your reach.
 These challenges are not all of government's making. But the failure to respond is a direct result of a broken politics in Washington and the failed policies of George W. Bush.
 America, we are better than these last eight years. We are a better country than this. ...
 This moment, this election is our chance to keep, in the 21st century, the American promise alive.
 Because next week, in Minnesota, the same party that brought you two terms of George Bush and Dick Cheney will ask this country for a third.
 And we are here because we love this country too much to let the next four years look just like the last eight. On Nov. 4, we must stand up and say: Eight is enough.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



733 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Sense And Reality On Energy

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris

 BODY:
High oil prices have helped to bring down the American economy and to devastate Detroit. Politicians are talking about energy policy, although they seem to be talking past each other.
 So it is now, and so it was in 1974, after the price shock that arrived after the Arab oil exporters started an embargo in retaliation for America's support of Israel in the Yom Kippur War, and learned that they could sell oil for a lot more than they had thought.
 From the perspective of 2008, what is most remarkable is that in 1975, the country had a president who actually wanted to confront the issue. The answers he proposed seem highly relevant now, even if the steps needed are much larger than would have been necessary if action had been taken back then. 
 The president, Gerald R. Ford, proposed to deal with the damage from rising oil prices by ... raising oil prices. That sounded radical then, and it sounds radical now. It also makes economic sense.
 Can you imagine hearing the following statements from either Senator John McCain or Senator Barack Obama?
 ''To provide the critical stability for our domestic energy production in the face of world price uncertainty, I will request legislation to authorize and require tariffs, import quotas or price floors to protect our energy prices at levels which will achieve energy independence.''
 ''Increasing energy supplies is not enough. We must take additional steps to cut long-term consumption.'' 
 ''Obviously, voluntary conservation continues to be essential, but tougher programs are needed, and needed now.''
 Those are excerpts from President Ford's State of the Union address in 1975.
 He wanted more oil drilling, and more use of nuclear power and coal, but he also wanted to hold down consumption. The man who had been a Michigan representative for a quarter of a century wanted to force Detroit to raise the fuel efficiency of cars. He wanted Congress to impose taxes to assure that the price of gasoline did not fall, and to pass a windfall profits tax to assure that the oil companies did not become too rich.
 Instead of that, the campaign so far this year has featured partisan wrangling: Drill more. Conserve more. Tax the oil companies. Subsidize their exploration.
 The candidates seem to agree on only one point, that the price of gasoline ought to go down. Senator McCain favored a temporary repeal of the federal gasoline tax. Senator Obama opposed that, but would like to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
 There is a good chance that oil prices will fall for a while, although they are likely to remain well above the levels that seemed high a couple of years ago. A worldwide slowdown will bring down prices, as one did a generation ago. And the politicians will move on to other issues, leaving the United States without an effective energy policy, perhaps for another generation.
 Frank G. Zarb has a better idea. You may remember that he was President Ford's energy czar, and a man who had a role in formulating the proposals in 1975. 
 ''If I were a candidate, I would take the high ground on this issue,'' Mr. Zarb said this week. He would announce a goal of cutting oil imports in half. ''I would say, 'I have a series of ideas on policies, but I am not stuck on them. If someone else has other ideas, we can consider them, so long as they are designed to meet the same goal.' '' 
 The set of possible policies is not that different from what it was in 1975. There must be a combination of increasing the supply of energy and reducing the demand for oil. That can include more drilling, and it can involve alternative energy sources. 
 One of the lessons that Mr. Ford understood was that it also needed to involve high prices. In recent decades there was far too little investment in energy, either in the search for more oil or in alternative sources, and too little effort devoted to conservation. Neither suppliers nor consumers acted as if they believed prices would stay high.
 Mr. Ford understood that weak economic times were hardly ideal for raising taxes, and proposed offsetting the energy taxes with rebates and income tax cuts. That would leave the money in the economy, but still propel the needed conservation and investment.
 His proposals were buried on Capitol Hill, and in due course the lessons of that era were forgotten.
 ''Scoop Jackson told me, 'We're not going to have an energy policy unless you can arrange another embargo,' '' said Mr. Zarb, referring to Senator Henry M. Jackson, then the chairman of the Senate committee that handled energy legislation. ''And he was right.''
 Had we taken the steps Mr. Ford pushed 33 years ago, we would have paid more for gasoline, for a time. The 1980s boom, as gasoline prices collapsed, might have been more muted.
 But with consumption down, we would have been in a far better position in this decade, when the growth of India and China pushed up demand for energy. Detroit would be producing vehicles more in tune with current customer needs, rather than asking for loan guarantees. Oil prices would almost certainly be lower, providing less money for the countries that export oil, among them Russia and Iran.
 One sign of the progress, or lack of it, since 1975 is that Mr. Ford wanted to cut imports in half with a reduction of two million barrels of oil a day. Now it would take a cut of five million barrels a day.
 Mr. Zarb says his proposal would be good politics for the first candidate to embrace it. ''That candidate would take the high ground and make it a bipartisan effort,'' he said. ''The other side would be really short-breathed and wouldn't be able to respond.''
 My suspicion is that the other candidate would gleefully respond, particularly if the candidate discussed the need to raise energy taxes. The response ads would say something like: ''My opponent thinks you are not paying enough for gasoline. If you agree, then vote for him. But if you think gasoline costs too much, and it is time for Washington to bring down the price, vote for me.''
 I assume that both Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain know that such an ad would be unfair, but think they dare not advocate long-term solutions that would involve short-term pain. 
 Perhaps they remember that a generation before Mr. Ford's brief term as president, Adlai E. Stevenson sought the office, promising to ''talk sense to the American people.''
 He lost. Twice.

GRAPHIC: CHART: UNITED STATES OIL IMPORTS: 10 million barrels a day (Source: Census Bureau, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (86%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (86%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (66%); TAX INCREASES (61%); FUEL TAX (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



734 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Sears's Quarterly Profit Falls 62% as Its Struggle Continues

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Sears Holdings Corporation reported a 62 percent drop in second-quarter profit as the company continued to struggle to attract customers to its stores despite an overhaul.
 The company also delivered a downbeat outlook predicting that its sales and gross profit margins would continue to be pressured amid a challenging economic environment. 
 The retailer, which operates Kmart and Sears, Roebuck stores, said Thursday that it earned $65 million, or 50 cents a share, in the quarter that ended Aug. 2. That compares with $173 million, or $1.15 a share, in the period a year ago.
 The second-quarter 2008 results included the reversal of a $62 million reserve because of the overturning of an adverse jury verdict in 2007 related to the redemption of certain Sears bonds in 2004. Excluding the item, earnings were 21 cents a share for the second quarter.
 Revenue declined to $11.76 billion from $12.26 billion in the period a year ago. Sales at stores opened at least a year, or same-store sales, dropped 6.2 percent in the United States. Same-store sales are sales at stores open at least a year and are considered a crucial indicator of a retailer's health.
 Analysts surveyed by ThomsonReuters expected 33 cents a share on revenue of $11.7 billion.
 Led by the financier Edward S. Lampert, who acquired Kmart in 2003 and Sears in 2005, Sears is in the midst of an overhaul aimed at reconnecting with shoppers and reinvigorating same-store sales, which have now fallen for the last 10 quarters.
 Many executives have left the retailer, which is continuing to search for a permanent chief executive to replace the interim leader, W. Bruce Johnson.
 ''Our second-quarter results reflect the continued effects of a slowing economy, which contributed to the earnings declines we have experienced since the third quarter of 2007,'' Mr. Johnson said in a statement. 
 He added that while it was a difficult quarter, the company was successful in reducing domestic inventory by $500 million, which he believed should lead to lower markdowns and help improve gross margin rates in the second half of the year.
 The company said Thursday that it intended to further reduce domestic merchandise inventories to better align them with expected sales. The moves to reduce inventory mirror what other retailers are doing.
 But slashing inventory may not be enough to turn around the company's fortunes. With a large exposure to big-ticket, home-related merchandise, Sears faces huge challenges as shoppers, squeezed by the rising costs of staples like gas and food, have cut back on nonessentials. 
 Same-store sales declined 6.7 percent at Sears, while at Kmart, same-store sales dropped 5.6 percent in the quarter. Especially hard hit were categories like home appliances and tools that have been hurt by the housing slump.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); RETAIL SALES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (69%); JURY TRIALS (54%); VERDICTS (54%)

COMPANY: SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (96%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (58%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (96%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (96%)

PERSON: EDDIE LAMPERT (78%); W BRUCE JOHNSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008



735 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Officials Hire Law Firm In Elevator-Death Inquiry

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA; Manny Fernandez contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The New York City Housing Authority has hired ReedSmith L.L.P., one of the nation's largest law firms, to represent it in the Brooklyn district attorney's inquiry into the death of a 5-year-old boy who fell down an elevator shaft in a public housing complex last week. 
 The accident has put renewed scrutiny on the Housing Authority over the safety and maintenance of its 3,337 elevators, which have drawn frequent complaints from public housing residents. 
 The Housing Authority said it had turned to outside counsel to help it respond to subpoenas and other matters involved in the criminal investigation. A spokesman for the authority said that on counsel's advice, it would also stop responding to requests from the news media for information and data related to the safety and inspections of its elevators. 
 ''As a result of this action, absolute priority is being given to the D.A.'s inquiry,'' the spokesman, Howard Marder, said in an e-mail message. ''Accordingly, based on counsel's advice, it is premature and not appropriate to supply to news sources piecemeal information relating to this incident, including any systemwide information that may prejudice the inquiry.'' 
 The boy, Jacob Neuman, died on Aug. 19 while trying to escape from a jammed elevator in the Taylor-Wythe housing complex in South Williamsburg. 
 Residents of the 12-story building say the elevators have been a source of frustration for years, often stalling between floors. The elevators were to be overhauled in 2004, but the work was deferred twice because of budget cuts. 
 The elevators appear to have been overdue for an inspection. City law requires elevators to be inspected about every six months, but the last inspection on record was Oct. 3, 2007. 
 An official who had been briefed on the district attorney's inquiry said that it had not expanded beyond an interest in evaluating what had happened in the child's death. 
 The district attorney's office has subpoenaed safety and inspection records for the elevator. The Housing Authority has not yet turned over the records, said the official, who was not authorized to publicly discuss the case and therefore spoke on condition of anonymity. 
 The Housing Authority, which employs about 100 lawyers and 100 support-staff members to handle litigation, would not say how much it was paying ReedSmith. 
 It is not unusual for government agencies to hire private counsel in criminal inquiries. But the move comes as the authority, the largest public housing authority in the country, is dealing with a financial crisis. Its budget deficit this year is $170 million and expected to climb to $207 million in 2012. 
 Authority officials blame dwindling financial support from Washington for the shortfall. The agency has threatened to shut hundreds of community centers and resident programs to close its budget gap. 
 A spokeswoman for ReedSmith declined to comment on Friday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); LITIGATION (78%); CHILDREN (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



736 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Internet Traffic Begins to Bypass the U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The era of the American Internet is ending.
 Invented by American computer scientists during the 1970s, the Internet has been embraced around the globe. During the network's first three decades, most Internet traffic flowed through the United States. In many cases, data sent between two locations within a given country also passed through the United States.
 Engineers who help run the Internet said that it would have been impossible for the United States to maintain its hegemony over the long run because of the very nature of the Internet; it has no central point of control. 
 And now, the balance of power is shifting. Data is increasingly flowing around the United States, which may have intelligence -- and conceivably military -- consequences. 
 American intelligence officials have warned about this shift. ''Because of the nature of global telecommunications, we are playing with a tremendous home-field advantage, and we need to exploit that edge,'' Michael V. Hayden, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee in 2006. ''We also need to protect that edge, and we need to protect those who provide it to us.''
 Indeed, Internet industry executives and government officials have acknowledged that Internet traffic passing through the switching equipment of companies based in the United States has proved a distinct advantage for American intelligence agencies. In December 2005, The New York Times reported that the National Security Agency had established a program with the cooperation of American telecommunications firms that included the interception of foreign Internet communications.
 Some Internet technologists and privacy advocates say those actions and other government policies may be hastening the shift in Canadian and European traffic away from the United States. 
 ''Since passage of the Patriot Act, many companies based outside of the United States have been reluctant to store client information in the U.S.,'' said Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center in Washington. ''There is an ongoing concern that U.S. intelligence agencies will gather this information without legal process. There is particular sensitivity about access to financial information as well as communications and Internet traffic that goes through U.S. switches.''
 But economics also plays a role. Almost all nations see data networks as essential to economic development. ''It's no different than any other infrastructure that a country needs,'' said K C Claffy, a research scientist at the Cooperative Association for Internet Data Analysis in San Diego. ''You wouldn't want someone owning your roads either.''
 Indeed, more countries are becoming aware of how their dependence on other countries for their Internet traffic makes them vulnerable. Because of tariffs, pricing anomalies and even corporate cultures, Internet providers will often not exchange data with their local competitors. They prefer instead to send and receive traffic with larger international Internet service providers. 
 This leads to odd routing arrangements, referred to as tromboning, in which traffic between two cites in one country will flow through other nations. In January, when a cable was cut in the Mediterranean, Egyptian Internet traffic was nearly paralyzed because it was not being shared by local I.S.P.'s but instead was routed through European operators. 
 The issue was driven home this month when hackers attacked and immobilized several Georgian government Web sites during the country's fighting with Russia. Most of Georgia's access to the global network flowed through Russia and Turkey. A third route through an undersea cable linking Georgia to Bulgaria is scheduled for completion in September.
 Ms. Claffy said that the shift away from the United States was not limited to developing countries. The Japanese ''are on a rampage to build out across India and China so they have alternative routes and so they don't have to route through the U.S.''
 Andrew M. Odlyzko, a professor at the University of Minnesota who tracks the growth of the global Internet, added, ''We discovered the Internet, but we couldn't keep it a secret.'' While the United States carried 70 percent of the world's Internet traffic a decade ago, he estimates that portion has fallen to about 25 percent.
 Internet technologists say that the global data network that was once a competitive advantage for the United States is now increasingly outside the control of American companies. They decided not to invest in lower-cost optical fiber lines, which have rapidly become a commodity business. 
 That lack of investment mirrors a pattern that has taken place elsewhere in the high-technology industry, from semiconductors to personal computers.
 The risk, Internet technologists say, is that upstarts like China and India are making larger investments in next-generation Internet technology that is likely to be crucial in determining the future of the network, with investment, innovation and profits going first to overseas companies. 
 ''Whether it's a good or a bad thing depends on where you stand,'' said Vint Cerf, a computer scientist who is Google's Internet evangelist and who, with Robert Kahn, devised the original Internet routing protocols in the early 1970s. ''Suppose the Internet was entirely confined to the U.S., which it once was? That wasn't helpful.''
 International networks that carry data into and out of the United States are still being expanded at a sharp rate, but the Internet infrastructure in many other regions of the world is growing even more quickly. 
 While there has been some concern over a looming Internet traffic jam because of the rise in Internet use worldwide, the congestion is generally not on the Internet's main trunk lines, but on neighborhood switches, routers and the wires into a house.
 As Internet traffic moves offshore, it may complicate the task of American intelligence gathering agencies, but would not make Internet surveillance impossible.
 ''We're probably in one of those situations where things get a little bit harder,'' said John Arquilla, a professor at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, Calif., who said the United States had invested far too little in collecting intelligence via the Internet. ''We've given terrorists a free ride in cyberspace,'' he said.
 Others say the eclipse of the United States as the central point in cyberspace is one of many indicators that the world is becoming a more level playing field both economically and politically.
 ''This is one of many dimensions on which we'll have to adjust to a reduction in American ability to dictate terms of core interests of ours,'' said Yochai Benkler, co-director of the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard. ''We are, by comparison, militarily weaker, economically poorer and technologically less unique than we were then. We are still a very big player, but not in control.''
 China, for instance, surpassed the United States in the number of Internet users in June. Over all, Asia now has 578.5 million, or 39.5 percent, of the world's Internet users, although only 15.3 percent of the Asian population is connected to the Internet, according to Internet World Stats, a market research organization.
 By contrast, there were about 237 million Internet users in North America and the growth has nearly peaked; penetration of the Internet in the region has reached about 71 percent.
 The increasing role of new competitors has shown up in data collected annually by Renesys, a firm in Manchester, N.H., that monitors the connections between Internet providers. The Renesys rankings of Internet connections, an indirect measure of growth, show that the big winners in the last three years have been the Italian Internet provider Tiscali, China Telecom and the Japanese telecommunications operator KDDI. 
 Firms that have slipped in the rankings have all been American: Verizon, Savvis, AT&T, Qwest, Cogent and AboveNet.
 ''The U.S. telecommunications firms haven't invested,'' said Earl Zmijewski, vice president and general manager for Internet data services at Renesys. ''The rest of the world has caught up. I don't see the AT&T's and Sprints making the investments because they see Internet service as a commodity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY iSTOCK)
 ''Suppose the Internet was entirely confined to the U.S., which it once was? That wasn't helpful,'' said Vint Cerf of Google.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TENGKU BAHAR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C4) CHART: Rerouting the Web: Since the dot-com bust, more and more international Internet pipelines are being created that do not pass through the United States and Canada.(Source: Telegeography) Chart details line graphs for SHARE OF INTERNET BANDWIDTH CONNECTED TO U.S. AND CANADA.(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (93%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (92%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); INTERNET PRIVACY (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); CORPORATE CULTURE (66%); US PATRIOT ACT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HAYDEN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



737 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Get Pad and Pen: The School Supply List Is Long

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
Among parents with school-age children, it is known simply as the List. 
 The one for Myung Kim's sixth grader in Ardsley, N.Y., ran to 30 items, including three packages of clay and a protractor. In Manhattan, Ellen Schorr's 9-year-old had hers broken into three categories: ''student supplies,'' ''community supplies'' and ''materials to have at home.'' Increasingly, amid the requisite three-hole punch and colored pencils are items with double-digit price tags -- flash drives, scientific calculators and disposable cameras.
 And the lists are heavy on hygiene: Lysol, Band-Aids, hand sanitizer, tissues and paper towels, things the custodian or school nurse used to have on hand.
 ''I'm assuming that 10 boxes of baby wipes is a typo,'' said Ms. Schorr, a writer and class parent at Public School 163 on the Upper West Side, where her 5-year-old, Isadora, is starting kindergarten. ''I'm not buying 10 boxes.'' 
 As school districts both poor and prosperous struggle to finance such basics as teacher salaries, utilities, building maintenance and textbooks, many are asking parents to purchase more -- and more particular -- school supplies. Gone are the days when back-to-school shopping meant making sure each child had new shoes and a three-ring binder. Now, according to the New York State School Boards Association, supplies run an average of $100 for high school students and $60 for middle schoolers. 
 The trend has even touched the toddler cohort. At Eladia's Kids Child Care Center in Brooklyn, the parents of an 18-month-old were asked to provide, among other things, a backpack, a two-pocket folder (for daily communications and periodic assignments) and special-occasion stickers (''special because they're from you!'').
 Many New York teachers extended their lists this year after the City Council cut the Teacher's Choice fund, created two decades ago to reimburse teachers for personal spending on classroom supplies, to $13 million from $20 million. Teachers who used to receive an allotment of $240 each now can count on $150.
 But opposition to the ever-growing lists has led some school districts to put on the brakes.
 In the suburbs of Rochester, the Gates Chili Central School District last year capped the amount that parents were expected to spend on supplies at $10 a child, adding $100,000 to the budget to make up the difference. The sprawling Fayette County Public Schools in Lexington, Ky., set a limit this fall of $120 a child for the year, including field trips. At Springhurst Elementary School in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., teachers have agreed on a standard list so the parent organization can buy in bulk, handing each family a shrink-wrapped package costing $37 to $44 this week.
 ''I think we have an obligation to provide a free public education,'' said Superintendent Rick Stein of Gates Chili, which has 5,000 students, a third of them poor enough to qualify for free or reduced-price lunch. ''I think a youngster needs to come to school on a level playing field, and it's much harder for some families to accomplish that than others. Our long-term goal is to get it to zero.''
 Amy Ellen Schwartz, director of the Institute for Education and Social Policy at the Steinhardt School of Culture, Education and Human Development at New York University, said that the shifting of responsibility for supplies from schools to families reflected two competing ideals in public education: equity and parental involvement.
 While many teachers tuck things like paper towels and tissues at the bottom of their lists, under a ''donations'' heading, Dr. Schwartz cautioned that such optional requests could create an atmosphere of favoritism. ''The parents who are most able to provide the resources might garner attention for their children,'' she said. ''Do we have evidence that this happens? No. Is it far-fetched that it could? No.''
 David Albert, a spokesman for the New York State School Boards Association, said the cost of school supplies was ''a burgeoning issue right now'' because of the weak economy and high fuel and food costs, particularly among poorer families or those with many children. ''You hear grumblings from different districts where parents look at these lists of supplies and ask whether they're all necessary,'' he said.
 Indeed, many parents interviewed this week expressed frustration not only at the length, specificity and oddball nature of some lists, but also at the inefficiency of asking each parent in a class to buy a single ream of paper when school districts could undoubtedly get discounts for large quantities. Others cringe at seeing the things they searched for on store shelves sit unused. 
 ''I spent $198 last year on supplies, and there are so many markers and highlighters and pencils they don't use,'' said Ms. Kim, the Ardsley mother of two who was shopping in a CVS. 
 ''We barely touched the clay,'' added her 12-year-old daughter, Grace, who is going into the seventh grade.
 Lisa Deffendall, a spokeswoman for the Kentucky school district that set the $120 limit, said the school board there also banned requiring students to provide communal items like cleaning supplies and copy paper, and asked principals to review all lists. ''We wanted to make a commitment to our families that the items you send in with your child are really going to be used by your child,'' she said.
 At a Staples in Scarsdale, N.Y., the other day, Dee Thompson, a subway conductor and single mother who lives in the Bronx, was fretting over folders for her daughter Nazaria, who won admission to the Salk School of Science, a selective middle school in Gramercy Park. ''They'll say folders, but they have plastic folders, vinyl folders, folders with three holes, and you don't know what kind they mean,'' she said. 
 Nazaria's list of 24 items included 8 optional ones marked as ''donations.'' Among the must-haves were a flash drive, a dictionary, a thesaurus, a scientific calculator and graph-paper composition notebooks -- which presented a problem, since Staples had graph-paper pads, but not notebooks. At the top of the list was an additional sticker shock: notice of a $50 lab fee. ''I can't afford a private education for her,'' Ms. Thompson said, ''so this is my payback.''
 Maria Baez, the manager of a laundry service in Brooklyn, spent $125 the other day on supplies for her daughter, Mireya, who is about to start the seventh grade, and still needed to find a calculator -- and it had to be by Texas Instruments. 
 ''We need help because it's a lot of stuff, especially if you have three kids,'' said Ms. Baez, who also has a kindergartner and a college student, and was shopping for back-to-school clothes at Cookies in the Fulton Mall in Downtown Brooklyn. 
 But Ajith Nair, the father of a first grader and a fifth grader in Dobbs Ferry, opted against the elementary school's prepackaged supplies and headed to a nearby Staples, even though he knew it would most likely cost more. ''I love to do this,'' he said. ''This is something I can do for my kids -- to give it a personal touch.''
 And Tory Perry, who lives on the Upper West Side with three school-age children, said she did not think the lists were excessive. ''It would be wonderful if they were included in the budget, but the reality is that there's no funding for supplies,'' Ms. Perry said as she shopped at Staples on Broadway at 80th Street. ''We're fighting for reduction in class size and really basic things. This is a way of supporting the teacher.''
 Teachers themselves say they feel caught in a bind, especially given dwindling resources for supplies from the main office. ''I try to limit it,'' said Cara Cashman, who teaches first graders at P.S. 280 in Norwood, in the Bronx, referring to her list. ''I've seen lists that are ridiculous.''
 Ms. Cashman, like so many other teachers, spends her own money for supplies, and keeps eyes peeled for specials and giveaways, like the free pocket folders available at most Staples locations through Saturday. (OfficeMax is offering protractors and compasses for a penny from Sunday through Sept. 6.)
 Ms. Cashman clutched 28 white pocket folders, one for each of her students, at the Staples store on Central Avenue in Scarsdale. ''They had free glue sticks a couple of weeks ago, so I stocked up on glue,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., Alicia Leibowitz and her daughter Sarah, 9, picked up packaged school supplies that were bought in bulk.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ellen Schorr shopped from a list of school supplies for Isadora, 5. ''I'm assuming that 10 boxes of baby wipes is a typo,'' she said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A parents' group in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., bought supplies in bulk.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (77%); HAND SANITIZERS (74%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (73%); CHILD CARE (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); TRENDS (69%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); SUBURBS (60%); NURSES & NURSING (54%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%); WAGES & SALARIES (51%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); CITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



738 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Zimbabwe Lifts Ban on Aid Groups, but Its Effects Linger

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
Zimbabwe lifted an almost three-month-old ban on the work of aid groups on Friday. The government had imposed the ban because it claimed some of the groups had been backing the opposition during a bitter election season in which President Robert Mugabe was fighting for his political survival. 
 The suspension of the groups' field operations deprived more than a million orphans, schoolchildren, the elderly and other impoverished Zimbabweans of food and other basic assistance, according to the nations that donated the aid. 
 The effects of the aid restrictions will linger. The United NationsWorld Food Program had planned to feed 1.7 million Zimbabweans next month, but was unable to deploy its partners on the ground, the suspended aid groups, to identify and register the needy this month. 
 ''We will not be able to reach most of those 1.7 million people,'' said Richard Lee, a spokesman for the World Food Program. ''We will try to reach as many as possible, but we haven't even begun to do the essential preparatory work.''
 The groups have long said they provide aid based solely on need, not politics. But Zimbabwe's minister of information, Sikhanyiso Ndlovu, on Friday reiterated the government's charge that some of the international aid groups had backed the opposition against Mr. Mugabe, providing food only to opposition supporters and funneling aid money into the coffers of the opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change.
 ''During the elections they were monsters,'' he said. But now, he added, ''since there are no elections, we hope they will now go back to their core business.'' 
 ''I hope some have now repented,'' he said.
 The aid groups have challenged the government to prove its case. Asked which nongovernmental organizations had used food for political purposes, Mr. Ndlovu declined Friday to name any. ''They know themselves,'' he said. 
 The United States, which last year provided $171 million in food aid to Zimbabwe, said that it was Mr. Mugabe's government that used food for political ends. This week, the American ambassador to Zimbabwe, James D. McGee, wrote to the social welfare minister, Nicholas Goche, demanding that the United States government be reimbursed for the theft of 20 metric tons of American-donated food. The aid had been meant for schoolchildren, but was instead confiscated by the authorities and handed out at a ruling party political rally.
 In the letter, Mr. McGee also said that 170,000 schoolchildren had been denied food donated by the United States because of the ban, while 455,000 people had missed out on water, sanitation and public health programs. Mr. McGee said the government must immediately lift the restrictions and stop harassing aid workers.
 ''However, if you choose not to act, we will hold you personally responsible for the inhumane suffering caused by this ban,'' Mr. McGee wrote.
 Mr. McGee said in an interview Friday that the government's restrictions on aid groups were a crime against Zimbabwe's people. ''This is purely politically motivated,'' he said. ''To talk about NGOs being politicized to get support for the opposition, it's garbage.''
 Aid officials had expected the government to end the ban after the June 27 presidential runoff, which was widely denounced as a sham. The opposition candidate, Morgan Tsvangirai, dropped out days before it was held, citing state-sponsored violence against his supporters. Zimbabwean political analysts said they believed that the government instituted the ban to clear the rural areas of aid workers who could have witnessed the worst of the state-sponsored violence against the opposition.
 But the ban dragged on for two more months after the runoff, prompting a plea from Ban Ki-moon, secretary general of the United Nations, for restrictions to be lifted to avert what he called ''a catastrophic humanitarian crisis.''
 There was much speculation about why the government kept the ban in place for so long. Aid groups have been able to creep back to work in some parts of the country, but most of their field work remained suspended.
 Some aid officials suspected that the aid restrictions had become a bargaining chip in power-sharing negotiations between Mr. Mugabe's party, ZANU-PF, in office since 1980, and the opposition. Mr. Tsvangirai, has repeatedly demanded that restrictions on aid be lifted. His party wanted help for its supporters displaced by the political violence.
 Mr. Mugabe's deep suspicion of the United States and Britain, both harshly critical of him, may also have rubbed off on aid groups financed by the two nations and made him more resistant to lifting the restrictions.
 What is indisputable is the suffering of Zimbabwe's people. Unemployment stands at more than 80 percent. Inflation is running at more than 11 million percent. And the United Nations forecasts that 45 percent of Zimbabwe's population, some 5 million people, will need food aid by the hungry season, from January to March. 
 Already, the United Nations has collected anecdotal accounts of people's desperate strategies for survival. Beyond eating fewer meals, they are foraging for wild seeds and fruits. They are selling off their belongings -- cows, bicycles, pots and pans -- for money to buy scarce and ever more expensive food.
 And their coping abilities are stretched thin, especially since this is the sixth year in which millions of them have needed food aid in a country that used to be southern Africa's bread basket.
 ''We're hearing these anecdotes widely and early in the year, and that indicates the situation in many areas is already serious,'' said Mr. Lee of the World Food Program.
 Economists say the government's policies are to blame, while the government claims that Western sanctions on the country's elite have ravaged the economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 17-year-old H.I.V. patient in a rural Zimbabwe hospital. The suspension of aid operations deprived more than a million people of assistance, aid donors said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBIN HAMMOND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



739 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 928 words

PERSON: Maxine Clark 

HEADLINE: Building a Young Audience at Ballparks

BYLINE: By JUSTON JONES

 BODY:
Going to a baseball game at some parks these days is akin to going to a mall, with retail stores and restaurants galore. Build-a-Bear Workshop is one company that is finding new customers by moving in at baseball stadiums.
 Maxine Clark, the chairwoman and chief executive of the company, said Build-a-Bear Workshop has opened five stores so far in Major League Baseball stadiums. Her company is filling a niche by giving sports fans a way to buy their own little team mascot, she said. 
 Ms. Clark, 59, spoke recently about setting up shop in the ballparks, remaining affordable for families and banking on the universal symbol of the teddy bear. Following are excerpts from the interview:
 Q.You've been opening stores in some of the new baseball stadiums. How is business at the ballparks?
 A. The ballparks have been a successful venue. We want to be wherever the family goes to have fun, whether it's a ballgame or the mall. It's the simple pleasures in life, you know. It's something as simple as the hug of a stuffed bear that makes a kid smile.
 Our first ballpark store was in Philadelphia. Opening it was driven by the owner. It was incredibly successful from the get-go.
 The mascot concept is very accepted in baseball, and not so much so in the N.B.A. or N.F.L. Major League Baseball has encouraged a family experience with the mascots, and our little versions of the team mascots have become very popular in the stadiums where we are present. 
 Q.When you said opening your first store at the Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia was the idea of the owner, how were you approached?
 A. One of the owner's grandchildren had been to a Build-a-Bear Workshop party in the King of Prussia Mall near Philadelphia and had loved the experience. They put two and two together and contacted us. The Phillie Phanatic, a furry friend, is very popular with Phillies fans, and we give them a way to make one of their own.
 Q.Part of going to a Build-a-Bear Workshop store is the experience of ''making'' the bear: choosing it, stuffing it, dressing it, naming it and taking it home. Is there time for a family to work through that whole process and take in the ballgame?
 A. Yes, there is. We do really well during rain delays. 
 All kidding aside, it's about the passion for the sport. Many kids play ball themselves, whether in little leagues or in T-ball. Having their own little mascot helps them connect all the dots.
 Q.Are the customers at the stadiums the same as those at your other stores? 
 A. We get a lot of new customers at the ballparks. Especially more male customers -- more pure, outright baseball fanatics. Have you seen all those people in the stands who love getting dressed up in jerseys and face paint? Well, it seems that many want to get the stuffed animal of their mascot, too.
 Q.What is the profile of your average customer?
 A. She's predominantly female in the mall stores. The average age of the customer most interested in the bears is about 10 years old. In sports, it's a little bit older. Our target audience is families with children 12 and under. That said, 20 percent of our customers are people over 12. 
 Q.Do you lose them once they hit their teens?
 A. Not necessarily. Teenage boys buy teddy bears for their girlfriends. Girls buy bears for their boyfriends and for other friends to express friendship. 
 Teddy bears are a universal sign of comfort and love and trust. They've been used as a sign of sympathy during times of national grief, like during Columbine and other tragedies. People like to leave flowers and teddy bears to say that they care. 
 Elvis sang ''Teddy Bear'' and it became a universal icon as a sign of love. 
 We have all kinds of things that we celebrate, from thanks to congratulations to birthdays and other holidays, and Build-a-Bear Workshop gives people the chance to do it with a special bear.
 Q.You have a game for the Nintendo Wii scheduled to be released in October. What are your expectations there?
 A. There is a Build-a-Bear Workshop interactive game for the Nintendo DS that has been so successful that Game Factory, the video-game publisher, decided to develop a Wii game as well. It appeals to both boys and girls.
 Q.Your stock price has fallen more than 60 percent in the last 12 months. Have you lost the confidence of your investors?
 A. I don't think the investor sentiment is personally about Build-a-Bear Workshop. Most retailers are feeling the broader drop in the stock markets. A lot of companies are trading near all-time lows -- except for the oil companies.
 Q.As the national economy sputters and families have fewer dollars for discretionary spending, how will you keep expanding your sales?
 A. By continuing to focus on the things that we do best. We started in 1997. We sold $10 bears then, and we still have $10 bears today. Yes, you can dress it and spend a lot more than that, but you don't have to. We'll put hair bows on it for free. You can dress it in the clothes that you already have. 
 You can just go into a Build-a-Bear Workshop and have a good time and be imaginative. We want to make a great memory for that customer.
 We sell products online as well. Now that may not be the experience that the child wants, but it gives parents an affordable option. 
 We have buildabearville.com. It's a virtual world where a child can bring a bear to life online. 
 Q.Is this like a blog for children?
 A. No, it's a social network online. It's totally different. It's where kids like to play. Lots of games. Lots of ways to earn points to use at Build-a-Bear Workshop. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maxine Clark 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (89%); SPORTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); YOUTH SPORTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); FAMILY (74%); CHILDREN (74%); MEN (67%); EXECUTIVES (57%)

COMPANY: BUILD-A-BEAR WORKSHOP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%)

TICKER: BBW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (58%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Sports

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



740 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Slowed for a Second Month

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Consumer spending slowed for the second consecutive month in July and personal income fell as the effect of economic stimulus checks tapered off and inflation lingered, the Commerce Department said Friday.
 ''The temporary impact of the stimulus has passed, and it looks like consumer spending is on track to decline in real terms in the third quarter,'' John Ryding, the chief economist at RDQ Economics, said. ''It's certainly a wake-up call to people who yesterday looked at the G.D.P. report and said, 'Hey, the economy grew by 3.3 percent, so everything's O.K.' ''
 Consumer spending was down 0.4 percent in July when adjusted for inflation, coming after a 0.1 percent drop in June. Personal income fell 0.7 percent, worse than analysts' expectations. Disposable personal income, a measure of how much money Americans have to spend after taxes, also shrank 1.7 percent in July when adjusted for rising prices. It had declined 2.6 percent in June. 
 Also on Friday, Reuters and the University of Michigan released a revised consumer sentiment index for August of 63.0. The index, based on a survey of consumers' attitudes toward the economy, slightly beat analysts' expectations and was at its highest level in five months.
 Stock prices fell in response to the two reports. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 1.47 percent, the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index 1.37 percent and the Nasdaq fell 1.83 percent.
 The bulk of federal tax rebate checks, which started going out in April, was sent in May and June and then tapered off in July. 
 ''Looking forward, the consumer is on her own,'' said Joseph Brusuelas, the chief economist at Merk Mutual Funds. ''There's no tax cut, no fiscal stimulus for the remainder of 2008. We'll be lucky if when we get into the fourth quarter we get anything positive from the consumer.''
 A crucial measure of inflation, the personal consumption expenditures deflator, grew 0.6 percent in July, compared with a 0.7 percent increase in June. Excluding food and energy the core P.C.E. index that the Federal Reserve watches closely increased 0.3 percent, matching June's inflation rate. Year over year, it rose 2.4 percent in July after climbing 2.3 percent in June.
 ''Some of the run-up is bleeding into or being passed through other nonfood and energy prices, like air fares,'' Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at the PNC Financial Services Group, said. ''Everybody, no matter what business you're in, has energy costs to produce products, and energy costs to transport products.''
 Despite the relatively high inflation numbers, analysts do not expect the Fed to raise interest rates anytime soon, given recent remarks by Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman, and moderating energy prices. 
 ''Their view is that slow growth in the economy and lower commodity prices will eventually bring inflation down without them stepping in and having to raise interest rates,'' Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at Global Insight, said. ''I don't think the numbers here would shift their present view.''
 Spending on nondurable goods, including energy and food, declined in July by 0.9 percent. An even bigger drop was seen in the purchase of durable goods -- generally bigger-ticket items like computers, washing machines and cars -- where spending fell 1.6 percent, after a 1.4 percent decline in June. Declining automobile sales were responsible for most of the drop.
 The bright spot for the American economy comes from external demand, economists say. Durable goods orders beat expectations to show a 1.3 percent rise in July, for example, because exports outpaced spending declines by American consumers. 
 ''There's not enough domestic economic activity to keep the industrial sector afloat,'' Mr. Brusuelas said. ''Now with the dollar weak, relatively speaking the industrial sector is largely meeting the demand needs of foreigners.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Consumer spending was down 0.4 percent in July when adjusted for inflation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar graph for Personal Income and Spending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (79%); CONSUMPTION (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (79%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); INTEREST RATES (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (59%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



741 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-CHART; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: The State of New Orleans: An Update

BYLINE: By AMY LIU and NIGEL HOLMES. 
Designed by Nigel Holmes.

 BODY:
THE third anniversary of Hurricane Katrina lands squarely between the Democratic and Republican conventions. Some might lament that this reflects the public abyss into which New Orleans has fallen. But it also serves as a reminder to urge the next president to bring fresh attention to the city's recovery. 
 Yes, New Orleans is regaining economic health. The city has recovered most of its population and jobs, giving it a foundation to support rebuilding. It has also reopened 87 public schools, including many new charter schools, as the state strives to overhaul the city's public education system.
 Yet serious challenges remain. A deficient system of levees leaves most of New Orleans facing the same risk of flooding from a major storm as it did before Hurricane Katrina. There are still not enough basic public services -- like hospitals and child-care centers. Public transit remains a huge problem as the number of riders has gone up by 40 percent in the past year, while only seven more buses have been put into service. 
 Although the population is increasing and the unemployment rate is very low (partly because of a shortage of workers for jobs related to construction and tourism), growth has stalled somewhat, as the city and region have added relatively few new households or jobs in the past year. 
 The ability to attract more workers is hindered by the high cost of rental housing, now almost 50 percent higher than it was before the storm. To increase the supply of affordable homes and reinvigorate blighted neighborhoods, the city must contend with more than 65,000 homes that are vacant or abandoned. 
 There is no question that there has been progress in New Orleans. Nonprofit groups, business leaders and some politicians are working hard to repair the city's buildings and improve the criminal-justice and health-care systems. But as Tropical Storm Gustav threatened the city this week, residents had only to look at the inadequate levees and rotting houses to see how much remains to be done, how important Washington's attention is, and how easily three years of halting progress could be washed away. 
 -- AMY LIU, the deputy director of the metropolitan policy program at the Brookings Institution and a co-author of its New Orleans index 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING DESIGNED BY NIGEL HOLMES)
 CHART details rebuilding progress in New Orleans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); WEATHER (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (55%); CHILD CARE (53%); TOURISM (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



742 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on Slow Consumer Spending

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street tumbled on Friday after the government said personal incomes fell last month by the largest amount in nearly three years while consumer spending slowed. The Dow Jones industrial average lost more than 170 points, while a disappointing profit report from the computer maker Dell weighed on the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index.
 Investors, meanwhile, charted the path of Hurricane Gustav as it headed toward the Gulf of Mexico and oil rigs and refineries in the area. 
 Wall Street's retreat after the downbeat news about consumers also comes after several days of sizable gains in stocks and on the final session before the long Labor Day weekend. Preholiday trading is generally light and some pullback was expected. The markets in the United States will be closed on Monday for the holiday.
 Investors were uneasy after the Commerce Department reported that personal incomes fell by 0.7 percent in July -- well beyond the drop of 0.1 percent that analysts polled by Thomson/IFR had predicted.
 As expected, the government also said consumer spending rose a modest 0.2 percent. That was below the 0.6 percent increase in June and, accounting for rising prices, spending fell by 0.4 percent in July. Wall Street has been concerned about Americans' ability to help the economy grow, as high prices for gas and food have strained many household budgets.
 ''My biggest concern with the income data is that we're getting off to a weak start to the third quarter,'' said Robert Dye, senior economist at the PNC Financial Services Group. ''The income numbers are a reminder that the economy is going to look worse before it gets better.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 171.63 points, or 1.47 percent, to 11,543.55. The blue chips began trading on Friday after having logged a three-day advance of nearly 330 points.
 Broader stock indicators also lost ground. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 17.85 points, or 1.37 percent, to 1,282.83. The Nasdaq fell 44.12 points, or 1.83 percent, to 2,367.52.
 For the week, Dow fell 0.7 percent, the S.& P. 500 lost 0.7 percent and the Nasdaq fell nearly 2 percent. 
 Bond prices fell 9/32 on Friday to 101 17/32. The 10-year note's yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 3.81 percent from 3.78 percent late Thursday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices fell.
 Light, sweet crude fell 13 cents to $115.46 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. While oil trading has been orderly as Gustav progresses, there is concern about damage from the storm or a disruption in the flow of gasoline and other fuel from Gulf Coast refineries.
 Although many investors are fixated on consumers, Wall Street showed little reaction to the Reuters/University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment, which rose to its highest level in five months. 
 Investors also shrugged off the Chicago Purchasing Managers' index, which is an indicator of business conditions across Illinois, Michigan and Indiana. It jumped to 57.9 from 50.8 in July. The index is considered a precursor to the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing survey on Tuesday. Investors also will be looking next week to readings on the service sector, construction, factory orders and employment.
 ''Traditionally, September is a weak month for stocks, and I don't think we're going to escape that,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners, a brokerage house based in New York. ''I do think we are going to stay in a trading range. I don't see this market falling out of bed and going below the July lows.''
 But concerns that arose on Friday could remain next week. Investors worried about tech companies after Dell's report late Thursday and its cautious comments about spending in the sector. The stock fell $3.48, or 14 percent, to $21.73.
 Another tech name, Marvell Technology Group, fell after its third-quarter revenue forecast fell short of Wall Street's estimate. The stock lost 65 cents, or 4.4 percent, to $14.11.
 The slide on Friday came as many traders were squeezing in last-minute summer holidays. The stock market's moves during the week perhaps belied the quiet that surrounded some trading posts. 
 While readings on the overall economy as well as consumer confidence and demand for big-ticket manufactured goods were better than expected, volume remained light, which can skew price moves.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); BOND MARKETS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); BONDS (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (74%); FUEL MARKETS (74%); METALS MARKETS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); US LABOR DAY (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); HURRICANES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



743 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: About That Doughnut

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
There are more furrowed brows in the breakfast line at Dunkin' Donuts since New York City started requiring restaurant chains to post calorie counts on their menus. Eyes darting between the menu board and the doughnut rack, I can almost hear the cogs whirring as my fellow customers add up the 540 calories of the banana walnut muffin and 400 more in the large Milky Way hot chocolate as they ponder how the wallop they are about to ingest will affect their lives. 
 Yet despite this apparent cognitive revolution, I'm not entirely persuaded that the sticker shock will bring victory in the war on obesity. And I'm certain that the fast-food industry is nowhere near ready to concede defeat.
 Anecdotal evidence suggests that New Yorkers are already switching to a healthier lifestyle. I read that Starbucks customers are gravitating toward the light line of drinks -- where one can shave 260 calories by choosing the light Mint Mocha Chip Frappuccino. A survey by researchers at the city's department of health last year found that Subway customers who saw calorie postings purchased 52 fewer calories, on average, than others. 
 Still, I don't have enormous faith in the good will of the calorie-industrial complex, which resisted New York City's ordinance tooth and nail. I wouldn't be surprised if some chains threw a couple of hypercaloric items onto the menu for contrast, to make us feel better about our large fries. Or they could cut the price of their big calorie items to entice economy-minded customers. 
 After passage of nutritional labeling rules in 1994, one study found food producers promoted their nutritionally poorer brands more heavily. Another found that food makers introduced about 2,000 new low- or reduced-fat items in the year after the new labeling rules. But the market never took off. By 1999, they introduced only 481.
 Fast-food companies can put their faith in what economists call our ''bounded rationality.'' We don't always act in our self interest, valuing the present pleasure of eating a cookie much more than the future cost to the love handles. Virtuous choices, like choosing the fruit plate over the banana split, often make us feel entitled to splurge and attack the potato chips when we get home. 
 The city is nonetheless right to empower its munchers with relevant information. If it won't change lives, at least we can hope it will nudge us in the right direction. If we still go to Cinnabon, we might skip the Caramel Pecanbon -- which at 1,120 calories provides more than half the daily allowance for a standard male. Choosing the 850 calorie regular bun will look reasonable by comparison. 
 EDUARDO PORTER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BAKED GOODS (90%); NUTRITION (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ORDINANCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); FOOD LABELING (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); OBESITY (71%); PRODUCT LABELING (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); FOOD MFG (69%); PRICE CUTTING (64%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



744 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Two-Front Republicans

BYLINE: By MATTHEW CONTINETTI. 
Matthew Continetti, an associate editor at The Weekly Standard, is the author of ''The K Street Gang: The Rise and Fall of the Republican Machine.''

DATELINE: Denver 

 BODY:
 THE country is at war. The economy is in shambles. The Republican Party is weaker than it has been in decades. So whom does John McCain choose as his vice presidential nominee? A former beauty queen turned governor from Alaska.
 Think the 47-year-old Barack Obama is too inexperienced to be president? Mr. McCain says the 44-year-old Sarah Palin, who has two years fewer of experience as governor than Mr. Obama has as a senator from Illinois, is up to the job. 
 Concerned that Americans do not know enough about Mr. Obama, who spent part of his childhood overseas and went to private school in Hawaii? Ms. Palin is a total unknown who also hails from a noncontiguous state, one most people know only from watching Animal Planet. And that state is steeped in corruption and oil money. Its senior senator is under indictment. They try to build bridges to nowhere there. What on earth was Mr. McCain thinking? 
 Here's what: The only way for him to win this election is to break with the national Republican Party. Mr. McCain needs to recast the party in his own image: anticorruption, pro-reform and fiscally and socially conservative. 
 In recent weeks, Republican strategists have urged Mr. McCain to run against the Democrats who control Congress. But that isn't enough for Mr. McCain. By picking Ms. Palin, he has signaled that he will campaign against the Republicans in Congress, too.
 In recent years, the Alaska Republican Party has become a metaphor for the national Republican Party. There are probably more caribou than pigs in Alaska, but its Congressional delegation is nonetheless addicted to pork. Flush with oil money, Alaska's Republicans have built a welfare state that Washington's ''big government conservatives'' must surely envy. Corruption is rampant. The party is out of touch. Senator Ted Stevens, who championed the infamous $400 million bridge, faces prison. On Tuesday, Alaska Republicans nominated him for another term.
 This is where Ms. Palin comes in. She campaigned for governor on an anti-corruption platform and has spent the past two years in combat with oil executives, lobbyists and politicians comfortable with the status quo. She helped prevent Senator Stevens's bridge to nowhere. In Alaska, as in the country at large, Republicans have done everything they can to get thrown out of office. Ms. Palin was elected to save the party -- and the state -- from itself.
 Sound familiar? A year ago, there was little chance Mr. McCain would be the Republican nominee. He had upset conservatives time and again by breaking with party regulars on immigration, climate change, the Bush tax cuts and interrogation. He had made enemies in Congress -- including Senator Stevens and Alaska's representative, Don Young -- by fighting egregious pork. And he disturbed the party's money-raising apparatus not only by promoting campaign finance reform, but also through his crusade against Jack Abramoff, the convicted lobbyist, and his friends. 
 Mention Mr. McCain before a crowd of conservatives a year ago, and their faces would grow pale before turning red in anger. The most likely sound you'd hear would be boos.
 Today Mr. McCain's conservative critics have quieted their protests. They appreciate that he is most likely the only Republican who could win the presidency in the current political environment. No more boos. Just cheers.
 They do this even as Mr. McCain tries to change the Republican Party. Choosing Ms. Palin affirmed her place among the party's rising stars. But it also rejected the various alternative models of the conservative coalition that Mr. McCain's other options for vice president represented. 
 No Mitt Romney and his Bush-like country-club conservatism. No Tim Pawlenty and his working-class, pro-family ''party of Sam's Club.'' No Tom Ridge and the return of pro-choice Republicanism to the presidential ballot.
 Not transformation. But not business as usual, either. And that's a gamble. When Joe Biden and Sarah Palin debate on Oct. 2, age and experience will confront an untested pretty face. It's happened before when Lloyd Bentsen took on Dan Quayle in 1988. Mr. Bentsen was widely thought to have won. 
 But we all know how things turned out in the end. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MAMMALS (88%); CORRUPTION (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TAX LAW (65%); IMMIGRATION (50%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); SARAH PALIN (79%); TED STEVENS (78%); DON YOUNG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (96%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



745 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Reprieve for a County Near Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM 

 BODY:
Jefferson County in Alabama and its lenders pulled back from the brink of a threatened bankruptcy filing on Friday after the county proposed restructuring $3.2 billion of sewer debt. 
 Gov. Bob Riley of Alabama, who this week entered the months of talks, said in a statement that the county, which is home to the state's largest city, Birmingham, would be presented with a standstill agreement against default through Sept. 30 and that negotiations with lenders would restart next week.
 A current standstill, or forbearance, agreement had been scheduled to expire on Friday and would have initiated a bankruptcy filing.
 ''The county presented a proposal that provides for a restructure of the existing bond debt at lower, fixed interest rates over a longer term,'' Mr. Riley said. ''Creditors received the proposal and agreed to respond next week.''
 The immediate issue among bond holders, insurers and the county turns on about $850 million of notes with interest rates that reset periodically and that defaulted earlier this year. The notes are held by banks, including the Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase.
 Bank of America had no immediate comment. JPMorgan Chase could not be reached for comment.
 There is also about $2 billion of Jefferson County auction-rate sewer debt outstanding, with the rest of the $3.2 billion comprised of fixed-rate debt, according to Standard & Poor's.
 Jefferson County originally sold the debt to pay for upgrades to its sewer system, and its debt crisis began in early 2008 with ratings downgrades of municipal bonds insurers. Those ratings cuts throttled auction-rate markets and drastically increased the interest costs for Jefferson County and many other issuers of auction-rate securities.
 The interest on auction-rate debt resets through periodic auctions, typically held every seven, 28 or 35 days. That market seized up in February after Wall Street brokerage firms stopped supporting the debt, and investors demanded much higher interest rates from debt issuers.
 A bankruptcy filing by Jefferson County over its sewer debt would be the biggest by a local government since Orange County, California, filed for protection in December 1994.
 Such a filing, a rarity by a local government, would also make Jefferson County the latest casualty of the global credit crisis, hit by its exposure to the auction-rate securities market.
 Mr. Riley said in his terse written statement that, ''The tone of the meeting was positive and constructive, and I remain willing to facilitate further progress towards a solution.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); DEBT NOTES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); INSURANCE (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (66%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: BOB RILEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (89%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



746 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Two Campaigns, at a Turning Point

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Senator John McCain's choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate is irresponsible. 
 Senator McCain has repeatedly said that he puts his country first, not his ambition. This is an example of raw ambition.
 Governor Palin is undoubtedly a talented new Republican. But she has no experience outside of Alaska, one of our least populated states. And the experience she does have as governor amounts to less than two years.
 Governor Palin is not prepared to be ''a heartbeat away'' from the presidency. Mr. McCain has made a mockery of his own campaign and of his party. 
 Elizabeth H. Rounds 
 San Francisco, Aug. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 John McCain's selection of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate ensures that a black man or a woman will be the president or vice president after our next national election. 
 I would have never believed this to be possible in my lifetime. This is truly a watershed moment in American politics. Barry K. Herman
 Radnor, Pa., Aug. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 John McCain's choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate is reminiscent of President George H. W. Bush's choice of Clarence Thomas for the Supreme Court. 
 Faced with public sentiment for an African-American to replace Justice Thurgood Marshall, Mr. Bush said, in effect: ''You want an African-American? Here's one who will consistently work against most African-American interests.'' 
 Mr. McCain, thinking that he can seduce supporters of Hillary Rodham Clinton, says: ''You want a woman on the ticket? Here's a solidly anti-choice woman who'll work against women's interests.'' 
 Interestingly, both choices play the same game of identity politics that Republicans claim to abhor. 
 Their cynicism is shameless. 
 Joseph Russo 
 Bristol, R.I., Aug. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Democrats have no basis to make the same claim that Republicans have made about inexperience on the national ticket. 
 The Republicans' inexperienced candidate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, is No. 2 on their ticket. The Democrats' inexperienced candidate is Senator Barack Obama, who is at the top of the ticket. That's a world of difference.
 And if the Democrats are going to claim that Mr. McCain's problem is his long years in Washington, that goes even more so for Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr.
 Each ticket now has one experienced candidate and one relative novice with minority or gender appeal. That leaves ideology. Mark R. Godburn 
 North Canaan, Conn., Aug. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 John McCain's choice of a woman as his running mate may be a historic one for the Republican Party, but it feels deeply cynical. 
 Mr. McCain clearly has more political than governing aims. He seems determined to capture the vote of the dispirited supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. I will be disappointed if the tactic works. 
 Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska is a deeply conservative women who holds anti-choice and other positions that starkly contrast with those of Mrs. Clinton. 
 After years of hard work by Democratic activists in an attempt to push Mrs. Clinton to the top of the Democratic ticket, her supporters should be dismayed to see their effort transformed into support for a woman (and, more important, a man) who opposes most of the positions and policies that Mrs. Clinton stands for.
 Bryan Shuman 
 Laramie, Wyo., Aug. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Framing Goals, Obama Takes the Fight to McCain'' (front page, Aug. 29):
 The Democratic National Convention in Denver was not only a spectacular and colorful sea of humanity but also a vast confluence of the American diversity that epitomized the ideals for which America stands.
 Senator Barack Obama's acceptance speech was eloquent and covered the core areas of our domestic and international challenges. It was a resolute assurance to all hard-working Americans who believe in the American dream.
 Watching the convention on television in the comfort of my bedroom, I could feel the draft of the winds of change that have started blowing across America.
 Atul M. Karnik
 Woodside, Queens, Aug. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In 1969, at age 22, I was incredulous at how the older generation was so awed by the moon landing. I had no doubt that it would happen; it was only a question of when.
 Watching Barack Obama give his acceptance speech, I was awed to see an African-American in a place that was unthinkable when the first men walked on the moon. My son, 16 years old, watched Mr. Obama and said, ''So, what's the big deal about a black presidential candidate?'' 
 One generation gazes in wonder, the next yawns. Steve Rosenberg
 Montclair, N.J., Aug. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As a former speech teacher, I must say that Barack Obama gave a terrible speech. There was no change of pace, no building to a climax, no change in facial expression. The delivery was entirely too fast throughout.
 After the brilliance of the two speeches by Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton, Mr. Obama's speech was boring by contrast. Larry Eugene
 Lincolnshire, Ill., Aug. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Speech to the Delegates,'' by David Brooks (column, Aug. 29):
 Mr. Brooks claims that Barack Obama loves the future because that's where all his accomplishments lie.
 Mr. Obama's accomplishments include overcoming the challenges of growing up with a single mother on a small income, heading The Harvard Law Review, doing community organizing instead of taking a lucrative job, writing two best sellers at a young age (before running for president) and inspiring an apathetic, disaffected generation not only to vote but also to truly feel part of the democratic process.
 Putting aside these very real achievements, I would agree that Mr. Obama has many accomplishments to come, whereas John McCain's are all in the past. Oriane Stender
 Brooklyn, Aug. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thank you, David Brooks, for capturing, though more eloquently, my thoughts on Senator Barack Obama's speech. He promised everything except lowering the sun's temperature (not enough campaign science advisers?).
 As did his wife, Michelle, Senator Obama tried to take an otherwise ordinary life and turn it into something exceptional. Does Senator Obama's going to college, getting married, raising a family and, generally, reaching the age of 47 really represent an outstanding accomplishment? I think not.
 Being the first black major-party nominee for president is Senator Obama's only real accomplishment. For that we should all congratulate him. The rest is a stretch, especially for a man who is asking to become the president of the United States. Andrea Economos
 Scarsdale, N.Y., Aug. 29, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); WOMEN (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); SARAH PALIN (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (56%); CLARENCE THOMAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



747 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: ALASKAN IS McCAIN'S CHOICE; FIRST WOMAN ON G.O.P. TICKET

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and ELISABETH BUMILLER; Michael Cooper reported from Dayton and New Concord, Ohio, and Pittsburgh, and Elisabeth Bumiller from Washington. Reporting was contributed by John Harwood, Patrick Healy, Carl Hulse, Michael Luo, Adam Nagourney, Larry Rohter and Jeff Zeleny.

DATELINE: DAYTON, Ohio 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain astonished the political world on Friday by naming Sarah Palin, a little-known governor of Alaska and self-described ''hockey mom'' with almost no foreign policy experience, as his running mate on the Republican presidential ticket.
 Ms. Palin, 44, a social conservative, former union member and mother of five who has been governor for two years, was on none of the widely discussed McCain campaign short lists for vice president. In selecting her, Mr. McCain reached far outside the Washington Beltway in an election year in which the Democratic presidential candidate, Senator Barack Obama, is running on a platform of change.
 ''She's not from these parts, and she's not from Washington, but when you get to know her, you're going to be as impressed as I am,'' Mr. McCain told a midday rally of 15,000 people in a basketball arena here shortly before Ms. Palin, with her husband and four of her children, strode out onto the stage.
 Within moments, Ms. Palin made an explicit appeal to the disappointed supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton by praising not only Mrs. Clinton but also the only other woman in American history who has been on a presidential ticket, Geraldine A. Ferraro, Walter F. Mondale's Democratic running mate in 1984. 
 ''Hillary left 18 million cracks in the highest, hardest glass ceiling in America, but it turns out the women of America aren't finished yet, and we can shatter that glass ceiling once and for all,'' Ms. Palin said to huge applause.
 Ms. Palin and Mr. McCain then embarked on a bus tour across Ohio and north into western Pennsylvania to Pittsburgh, a route that took in a wide swath of the central battleground in this year's presidential campaign. 
 Mr. McCain's pick, Ms. Palin, who opposes abortion, played especially well among evangelicals and other social conservatives, who have always viewed Mr. McCain warily and who have been jittery in recent weeks because of reports that Mr. McCain was considering naming a running mate who favors abortion rights. 
 The McCain campaign sees Ms. Palin as a kindred spirit to Mr. McCain, particularly in her history of taking heat from fellow Republicans for bucking them on issues and spotlighting their ethical failings. Like Mr. McCain's, her political profile is built in part on her opposition to questionable government spending projects.
 But they differ on a number of policies. Ms. Palin opposed Mr. McCain on one of the most prominent Alaskan issues: She supports drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and Mr. McCain opposes it, much to the consternation of some Republicans. Mr. McCain's environmental policy accepts that global warming is driven by pollution; Ms. Palin has said she is not convinced. A spokeswoman for Ms. Palin, Maria Comella, said, ''Governor Palin not only stands with John McCain in his belief that global warming is a critical issue that must be addressed, but she has been a leader in addressing climate change.''
 Ms. Palin, a former mayor of the small town of Wasilla, an Anchorage suburb, rose to prominence as a whistle-blower uncovering ethical misconduct in state government. Her selection amounted to a gamble that an infusion of new leadership -- and the novelty of the Republican Party's first female candidate for vice president -- would more than compensate for the risk that Ms. Palin could undercut one of the McCain campaign's central arguments, that Mr. Obama is too inexperienced to be president.
 Democrats and at least some shocked Republicans questioned the judgment of Mr. McCain, who has said repeatedly on the campaign trail that his running mate should have the qualifications to immediately step into the role of commander in chief. 
 Mr. McCain's words on the matter have had more than usual resonance this year because of his age -- he turned 72 on Friday, and hopes to be the oldest person ever elected to a first term -- and his history with skin cancer.
 Ms. Palin appears to have traveled very little outside the United States. In July 2007, she had to get a passport before she visited members of the Alaska National Guard stationed in Kuwait, according to her deputy communications director, Sharon Leighow. She also visited wounded troops in Germany during that trip.
 Mr. McCain's announcement of Ms. Palin came in the immediate afterglow that Democrats were enjoying from their nomination of Mr. Obama, and for one news cycle at least, as Republicans intended, Ms. Palin effectively muffled the news coverage of Mr. Obama's acceptance speech to 80,000 people at the Democratic National Convention in Denver on Thursday night. 
 Mr. Obama wished her well in a call from his campaign bus.
 ''He also wished her good luck, but not too much luck,'' said Robert Gibbs, a senior strategist to Mr. Obama. 
 Mr. Obama's fellow Democrats were considerably less welcoming, and most said they were flabbergasted by what they characterized as a desperate, cynical or dangerous choice, given Ms. Palin's lack of any experience in national security.
 ''On his 72nd birthday, this is the guy's judgment of who he wants one heartbeat from the presidency?'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, who said the selection smacked of political panic. ''Please.''
 Mr. McCain's advisers said Friday that Mr. McCain was well aware that Ms. Palin would be criticized for her lack of foreign policy experience, but that he viewed her as exceptionally talented and intelligent and that he felt she would be able to be educated quickly.
 ''She's going to learn national security at the foot of the master for the next four years, and most doctors think that he'll be around at least that long,'' said Charlie Black, one of Mr. McCain's top advisers, making light of concerns about Mr. McCain's health, which Mr. McCain's doctors reported as excellent in May.
 Many conservatives said that the choice would energize them, giving Mr. McCain the support of a highly active group of voters and volunteers whose support was crucial to both of President Bush's victories. 
 ''They're beyond ecstatic,'' said Ralph Reed, the former head of the Christian Coalition.
 Ms. Palin is known to conservatives for opting not to have an abortion after learning that the child she was carrying, her youngest, had Down syndrome. ''It is almost impossible to exaggerate how important that is to the conservative faith community,'' Mr. Reed said.
 The choice of Ms. Palin was reminiscent of former President George Bush's selection of Dan Quayle, then a barely known senator from Indiana as his running mate in 1988. 
 It was far from clear Friday whether adding a woman to the ticket would persuade Clinton supporters to come over to the Republicans, given Ms. Palin's differences with Mrs. Clinton on issues from abortion rights to her positions on health care and climate change. Some women said that the pick could be seen as patronizing, a suggestion that women would vote based on a candidate's sex rather than on positions. But others saw the choice of Ms. Palin as a welcome step.
 ''I think it's absolutely fantastic,'' said Kimberly Myers, a retired transit worker in Pittsburgh who had originally supported Mrs. Clinton but who said that Mr. McCain's choice would win him her vote. ''She's actually broken the glass ceiling.'' 
 As they began gathering in Minneapolis-St. Paul for the start of their convention on Monday, some Republican delegates said they were concerned that Ms. Palin did not have the experience in foreign policy or national security to be commander in chief.
 ''We're in a global war, we're in a global economy, so it's less than honest if someone says that this woman is qualified to lead America right now,'' said Todd Burkhalter, a Republican delegate from Mobile, Ala..
 Her selection was kept secret until Friday morning, after the two men who had been rumored to be on Mr. McCain's short list, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, let it be known they were out of the running. 
 The McCain campaign said that Mr. McCain first met Ms. Palin in February this year at the National Governors Association meeting in Washington and came away ''extraordinarily impressed.'' But Mr. McCain apparently has spent little time with her.
 Ms. Palin flew to Flagstaff, Ariz., on Wednesday evening to meet with two of Mr. McCain's senior campaign aides, Steve Schmidt and Mark Salter, said Jill Hazelbaker, a campaign spokeswoman. The group met at the Flagstaff home of Bob Delgado, the chief executive officer of the Hensley Corporation, the family business of Cindy McCain, Mr. McCain's wife.
 After meeting with Mrs. McCain there the next morning, Ms. Palin was taken to the McCain vacation compound near Sedona, where Mr. McCain offered her a spot on the ticket at 11 a.m. 
 She flew to Ohio later that day with Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Salter, and checked into a hotel as the Upton family. Ms. Palin's children, who had been told they were going to Ohio to celebrate their parents' 20th wedding anniversary on Friday, were informed there that their mother would be the Republican vice-presidential nominee.
 Thursday evening she had a final meeting with Mr. McCain. One adviser suggested that although Mr. McCain was sure about his choice, he wanted to sit down with Ms. Palin one last time before he made what he knew would be an astonishing announcement the next morning.
 As recently as last month, Ms. Palin appeared to dismiss the importance of the vice presidency in an interview with Larry Kudlow of CNBC, who asked her about her prospects for the job.
 ''I still can't answer that question until somebody answers for me, what is it exactly that the V.P. does every day?'' Ms. Palin told Mr. Kudlow. ''I'm used to being very productive and working real hard.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 3, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about Senator John McCain's selection of Sarah Palin as his running mate misstated the historical precedence of her candidacy and that of Geraldine Ferraro. Numerous women over the years have run for president and vice president on minor party tickets. Ms. Palin and Ms. Ferraro are not the only women who have been on presidential tickets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain introduced Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his choice for vice president at a rally Friday in Dayton, Ohio.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gov. Sarah Palin at the rally at a Dayton, Ohio, arena on Friday. Ms. Palin made an appeal to female supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ETHICS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); HISTORY (66%); ABORTION (62%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); WILDLIFE (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); BASKETBALL (53%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (86%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (53%) ALASKA, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008



748 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WOMAN IN THE NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2274 words

PERSON: Sarah Heath Palin 

HEADLINE: An Outsider Who Charms

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY; Christopher Drew, Michael Luo and Bill Loftus contributed reporting.

 BODY:
This article was reported by William Yardley, Jo Becker, Mike McIntire and David D. Kirkpatrick, and was written by Mr. Yardley.
 Her father shot the grizzly bear whose hide is now draped over the sofa in her office. She, too, hunts and fishes. She runs marathons. She delivered her fifth child during her first term as governor. They call her husband, the reigning champion in the annual Iron Dog snowmachine race, First Dude.
 Sarah Palin, Senator John McCain's surprising selection to be his vice-presidential running mate, took Alaska by surprise, too, not long ago. Though indisputably Alaskan, she rose to prominence by bucking the state's rigid Republican hierarchy, impressing voters more with gumption, warmth and charm than an established record in government. 
 It was a combination that dumbfounded her rivals. 
 ''She wouldn't have articulated one coherent policy and people would just be fawning all over her,'' said Andrew Halcro, a Republican turned independent, who along with Tony Knowles, a Democrat, ran against Ms. Palin for governor in 2006. ''Tony and I looked at each other and it was, like, this isn't about policy or Alaska issues, this is about people's most basic instincts: 'I like you, and you make me feel good.' ''
 ''You know,'' said Mr. Halcro, invoking the Democratic presidential nominee, ''that's kind of like Obama.''
 Before Ms. Palin, 44, became Alaska's first female governor, in 2006, the top line on her political resume was her tenure as mayor of Wasilla, a growing suburb of Anchorage with fewer than 7,000 residents. But even before a wide-ranging federal investigation began rattling through the Republican-controlled State Legislature over lawmakers' links to an oil services company, Ms. Palin jumped into the governor's race as an outsider calling for reform. 
 She already had challenged the state Republican Party's chairman, accusing him of abusing his role on a state oil and gas commission to do political work. And by the summer of 2006, Ms. Palin was taking on the governor, Frank H. Murkowski, a Republican lion of Alaska politics whose bluster and closed-door dealing had finally worn thin in the state. 
 Ms. Palin (pronounced PAY-lin), youthful and sympathetic with voters but bluntly critical of her party's leadership, said state government was broken, that it needed to be transparent and responsive. Stunningly, she won in a landslide, trouncing Mr. Murkowski by more than 30 points in the Republican primary that summer and rolling through the general election.
 Defying Expectations
 Now, after barely 20 months in office in a state that has rarely played much of a role in national politics, Ms. Palin is again challenging expectations, including those of her own party.
 ''Did I wake up in a parallel universe?'' said Mr. Halcro, who writes a blog that is frequently critical of the governor. ''I am absolutely shocked.''
 Whatever similarities Ms. Palin and Senator Barack Obama may have in personal appeal, they seem to have little else in common. She is a conservative Protestant and has also been a member since 2006 of Feminists for Life, an anti-abortion group. She has supported the teaching of intelligent design in public schools, alongside evolution.
 She is a member of the National Rifle Association, and has said Alaska's economic future depends on aggressively extracting its vast natural resources, from oil to natural gas and minerals. 
 Ms. Palin said she supported Alaska's decision to amend its Constitution to ban same-sex marriage. But she used her first veto as governor to block a bill that would have prohibited the state from granting health benefits to same-sex partners of public employees. Ms. Palin said she vetoed the bill because it was unconstitutional, but raised the possibility of amending the state Constitution so the ban could pass muster. 
 ''I don't think a Hillary person would ever move to her, based on the issues,'' said Jean Craciun, a strategic research and planning consultant in Alaska who has done political polling for Democrats and Republicans. ''I don't think before today I would have ever heard someone call her a feminist.'' 
 This month, Ms. Palin issued a last-minute statement of opposition to a ballot measure that would have provided added protections for salmon from potential contamination from mining, an action seen as crucial to its defeat. Her intense pursuit of a pipeline to deliver natural gas from the North Slope of Alaska to market in the Lower 48 led to what her administration has claimed as a major triumph: the Legislature this summer approved her plan to give a $500 million subsidy to TransCanada, a Canadian company, to help build the project.
 The State Senate president, Lyda Green, a Republican who is also from Wasilla, has repeatedly sparred with Ms. Palin in the 20 months since she became governor. Like Mr. Halcro, Ms. Green called the governor's economic policies ''liberal,'' and said, ''I'd have concerns that she'd have the same negative impact on the nation that she has on Alaska.''
 Ms. Green disagreed with the governor's decision to award a license and $500 million in subsidies to the Canadian company, saying there was no guarantee that even with the subsidies a gas pipeline would be built.
 Ms. Green said the governor was difficult for her to deal with, a state of affairs she traces to Ms. Green's decision to remain neutral in Ms. Palin's race against former Governor Murkowski.
 ''There was some resentment there that some of us didn't come out and support her during the primary, and it never really got any better,'' Ms. Green said. ''I found that if you disagreed with her or tried to amend or change something, that was sort of off-limits. She did not like being told no or to change it.''
 Commitment to Pipeline
 Rebuffing criticism of the pipeline subsidy, Ms. Palin has cast the pipeline as a way for Alaska to ''end our dependence on foreign oil.'' She has said she hopes the pipeline effort will show that Alaska can contribute to a new energy economy, rather than be known as the state that receives more per capita federal spending than any other.
 Critics in the state complained that Ms. Palin had undercut her clean-government image by appointing as her chief adviser on the pipeline a former lobbyist for TransCanada. The adviser, Marty Rutherford, her deputy commissioner of natural resources, earned about $40,000 lobbying the state government for a TransCanada subsidiary in 2003.
 Asked recently whether Mr. Rutherford's past work for TransCanada presented a conflict of interest, Ms. Palin told The Anchorage Daily News, ''Going on five years later, no.'' 
 One of her most significant accomplishments as governor was passing a major tax increase on state oil production, angering oil companies but raising billions of dollars in new revenue. She said the oil companies had previously bribed legislators to keep the taxes low. She subsequently championed legislation that would give some of that money back to Alaskans: Soon, every Alaskan will receive a $1,200 check.
 Appointed in 2003 to the state board that settles drilling disputes, the Alaskan Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, she became an outspoken critic of one of her fellow commissioners, Randy Ruedrich, for soliciting political contributions from the oil industry in his capacity as chairman of the state's Republican Party.
 Ms. Palin's introduction to a national audience comes as little good news has come out of Republican politics in Alaska. The same corruption investigation that was brewing when she ran for office in 2006 has led to the convictions of three Republican state lawmakers, charges against still more and, most recently, the indictment of the most established and revered Alaska politician of all, Senator Ted Stevens.
 The continuing trouble has made Ms. Palin's calls for reform appear all the more prescient, yet she now is facing an investigation herself. The Republican-controlled Legislature has hired an independent investigator to determine whether Ms. Palin improperly pressured the former state public safety commissioner to resign this year. 
 The former commissioner, Walt Monegan, has said he felt pressure from Ms. Palin's administration, and her husband, Todd, to fire a state trooper, Mike Wooten, who was going through a bitter divorce with the governor's sister. The trooper was not fired.
 Mr. Monegan told The Anchorage Daily News that Mr. Palin had showed him some of the findings of a private investigator the family had hired and accused the trooper of a variety of misdeeds, including drunken driving and child abuse.
 Mr. Palin told the newspaper he feared for his wife's safety and said Trooper Wooten had made threats against her and her family. The governor has acknowledged inquiries by her staff to the Public Safety Department but said she played no role in them. To demonstrate she welcomed the inquiry, Mrs. Palin asked the state attorney general to look into the accusations as well.
 Born on Feb. 11, 1964, in Sandpoint, Idaho, Sarah Heath Palin was still an infant when her parents moved the family to Skagway, in southeast Alaska, after accepting teaching positions there. The family moved to Wasilla, a small, conservative and growing suburb of Anchorage where, as Mr. McCain noted, Ms. Palin was a ''standout high school point guard.''
 The governor met her husband in high school, and she was later voted ''Miss Wasilla'' in a local beauty contest. In 1987, she received a bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Idaho. A year later, she and Mr. Palin eloped.
 The governor said Friday that she ''never really set out to be involved in public affairs, much less to run for this office,'' referring to the vice presidency, but she rose quickly once she entered political life. ''A P.T.A. mom who got involved,'' is how the current mayor of Wasilla, Dianne M. Keller, described Ms. Palin.
 She was elected to the Wasilla City Council in 1992, then ran for mayor in 1996, she has said, because she was concerned that revenue from a new sales tax would not be spent wisely. She served two terms, through 2002.
 As mayor, she oversaw the Police Department, which has 25 officers, and the city's public works projects. Garbage collection is done by private companies, and a borough government oversees firefighting and public schools. 
 ''This is really rural America,'' said the deputy city clerk, Jamie Newman, who added that town residents were still reeling from the news that the woman who just six years ago served as their mayor could now be vice president of the United States. ''Frankly, everyone is in shock.''
 Ms. Keller said that Ms. Palin had three major achievements as mayor: She cut property taxes, increased the city sales tax by half a percent to support construction of an indoor ice rink and sports complex, and put more money into public safety, winning a grant to build a police dispatch center in town. 
 Although she would later criticize Congressional earmarks like Alaska's infamous ''Bridge to Nowhere,'' proposed for the town of Ketchikan at a cost of about $400 million, as mayor she began the practice of making annual trips to Washington to press for them on behalf of their town.
 A Fresh Family Tableau
 Ms. Palin's family presents Mr. McCain, who turned 72 on Friday, with fresh and wholesome campaign imagery. It also presents some potentially delicate issues. Mr. Palin, in addition to being a champion snowmobile racer, is an oil production operator on the North Slope, working for BP, a company that has had to make major repairs since a spill on the slope temporarily shut down production there in 2006. 
 In addition to Ms. Palin's $125,000 state salary, Mr. Palin earned $93,000 last year running his own commercial fishing business and working part-time at BP's oil production facility, according to her public financial disclosure reports.
 Although Ms. Palin once said that her husband would quit his job at BP if she were elected governor, she later backed away from that. He took a leave from the company after she won, but went back to work there last year, saying his family needed the money. And the governor now says that because Mr. Palin is not in management, it poses no conflict with her own dealings with the petroleum industry, a major force in Alaska's politics and economy.
 Mr. Palin, who is part Yu'pik Eskimo, also received a few hundred dollars in dividends as a shareholder in two benefit corporations representing Alaskan Natives and $10,500 from the Iron Dog snowmobile race, which he has won several times. The Palins reported no debts other than the mortgage on their home.
 The couple have five children -- Track, 19; Bristol, 17; Willow, 14; Piper, 7; and Trig, 4 months. Track joined the Army last year, a fact Ms. Palin mentioned in her introduction to the Republican ticket on Friday. Trig, who was born in April, has Down syndrome, which Ms. Palin seemed to allude to only obliquely on Friday, after she described him as a ''beautiful baby boy'' then shifted from there to her selection as Mr. McCain's running mate.
 ''Some of life's greatest opportunities,'' the governor said, ''come unexpectedly.''
 Ms. Palin and her husband knew during her pregnancy that there were complications, though the boy's condition was not revealed publicly until after he was born. Anti-abortion groups have praised Ms. Palin and her family.
 ''It speaks volumes about her personally and about how she walked her talk,'' said Serrin M. Foster, president of Feminists for Life, an anti-abortion group.
 Three days after giving birth, Ms. Palin was back at work.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain introduced Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his choice for vice president at a rally Friday in Dayton, Ohio.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Gov. Sarah Palin in the Governor's Mansion in Juneau with her daughters, from left, Bristol, Piper and Willow in 2006.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN WALLACE/JUNEAU EMPIRE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Ms. Palin in her downtown Anchorage office in 2007, which has a decidedly Alaskan touch to the decor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANCHORAGE DAILY NEWS/MCT -- LANDOV)
The governor greeting her husband, Todd Palin, at the finish line of the 2007 Tesoro Iron Dog snowmobile race in Fairbanks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES MARSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Sarah Palin in a 1984 studio portrait as Miss Wasilla.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANCHORAGE DAILY NEWS/MCT -- LANDOV)(pg. A12) CHARTS: Where She Stands: ABORTION Supported bills to outlaw late-term abortions and to require parental consent for abortions in Alaska. She gave birth this year to a son with Down syndrome, her fifth child, saying that she had known about the disability beforehand but would not abort the pregnancy. She is a member of an anti-abortion organization called Feminists for Life. DEATH PENALTY On her campaign Web site, she said: ''If the Legislature passed a death penalty law, I would sign it. We have a right to know that someone who rapes and murders a child or kills an innocent person in a drive-by shooting will never be able to do that again.'' ENERGY Favors drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, saying that Alaska was brought into the United States for its resources
Senator John McCain has opposed drilling there. She signed into law a bill to create a Renewable Energy Fund in Alaska, where residents are heavily dependent on fossil fuels. SAME-SEX MARRIAGE Supported a 1998 Alaska constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage. GUN CONTROL Is an avowed supporter of the right to bear arms, a member of the National Rifle Association and a rifle hunter of Alaskan game. HEALTH CARE Supports competition in health care, and laws allowing patients access to better information about prices. In 2008, she said she was considering incentives for employers to provide insurance, based on the free market. She said reform must also include ''Alaskans' choosing to take more personal responsibility'' to be healthier. TAXES Is a fiscal conservative. She proposed suspending the state's gasoline tax this year. She also proposed giving every Alaskan a $1,200 check from state accounts that were bulging with windfall revenues from the state's tax on oil production.(pg. A12)
 Key Milestones: For Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska. Chart details timeline for Palin. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MAMMALS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (88%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MARATHONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CHRONOLOGIES (75%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (74%); WINTER SPORTS (71%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (62%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%)

SARAH PALIN (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (87%); TODD PALIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (79%); JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (59%) ALASKA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (72%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



749 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; DEVELOPMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Housing Goals Remain Elusive

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
SIX years ago, when planners in Hastings-on-Hudson agreed to build a 14-unit rental project that is now nearing completion in the village center, the goal was to provide housing for locally employed workers who otherwise could not afford to live there. 
 That goal will finally be realized this fall when municipal employees begin moving in.
 Jen Corso, 25, who earns $36,000 a year as the village's cable access coordinator, will move out of a studio apartment in Harrison and into a one-bedroom unit. ''And now that I won't have to commute anymore,'' Ms. Corso said, ''I'll be able to join the village's volunteer fire department and rescue squad.''
 According to Sue Smith, chairwoman of the village's Affordable Housing Committee, Ms. Corso is ''exactly the kind of person we had in mind from the beginning.'' 
 In addition to those who commute to high-paying jobs elsewhere, Ms. Smith said, the village needs residents who work locally, often for less money, and are available during the workday to respond to emergencies.
 However compelling the arguments are for supporting an economically diverse workforce, the effort to build lower-cost housing in Westchester has faced difficulties. The problem, county officials say, has less to do with financing or finding land than it does with generating the political will to back the effort. 
 Despite objectives established by the Westchester Housing Opportunity Commission, a panel established by the County Legislature in 1994 to enlist local support for such housing, efforts have fallen far short of the mark. The initial goal set by the commission was 5,000 new below-market-rate units by 2000, but 2,307 were built during that period. A new recommendation of 10,768 units was set in 2000, and at the halfway mark last year, 2,187 units had been or were being built. 
 And according to a federal lawsuit filed last year, many of the units that have been created are in municipalities that are predominantly black. In mid-July last year, a federal judge refused to dismiss the suit, in which the Anti-Discrimination Center of Metro New York, a civil rights group, says the county's efforts to build below-market-rate housing so far have effectively kept its municipalities racially segregated.
 On Sept. 19 in Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York in Manhattan, the Anti-Discrimination Center and the county will file motions for summary judgments, stating their cases to Judge Denise L. Cote. 
 Michael Allen, a lawyer with the Washington firm of Relman & Dane, argues that the county has built below-market-rate housing in places like Mount Vernon and New Rochelle, which already have high concentrations of black residents, rather than in mostly white towns like Eastchester, Mount Pleasant and Harrison. ''A real test of political will,'' Mr. Allen said, ''would involve the county challenging the other municipalities to do their share.'' 
 The county's position, its lawyer Matthew T. Miklave said, is that it cannot force a locality to build below-market-rate housing. 
 In fact, since the housing commission first released its report calling for more lower-cost units, many communities have ignored its recommended allocations.
 ''What's more, a lot of good politicians who supported the cause have lost their jobs over the issue,'' said Richard Hyman, a consultant to the commission.
 Mr. Hyman cited Harrison as an example. In 1992, a plan developed by Andrew M. Cuomo, who was at the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development but was not yet secretary, called for two-family homes to be bought by municipal workers, school staff members and young families working or living in Harrison. Under the proposal, the second unit would be rented to families qualifying for federal housing subsidies. 
 The plan had the support of the late Charles G. Balancia, then the town supervisor, but it provoked voter resentment and contributed to the failure of his bid for a seat on the Town Council the following year. Since then, Harrison has contributed no units toward the commission's suggested allocations, which call for 756 units there. And Joan Walsh, the current town supervisor, said the municipality still had no plans to build below-market-rate housing. 
 But other municipalities in the county are working with nonprofit housing groups to encourage below-market-rate housing, said Norma V. Drummond, Westchester's deputy commissioner of planning. In the past year, 137 new units have been built, and 592 are under construction, while 435 units have been approved, though construction on them has not yet begun.
 In May, ground was broken for the $3.5 million Symphony Knoll project in Croton, an 11-unit development for residents over 55. The county contributed about $1.3 million to the project, with other money coming from the county's Industrial Development Agency and the federal Low-Income Housing Tax Credit program. Eight units will be rented to residents with incomes at or below 50 percent of the county's median income, or $40,650 for a two-person household. The other units will be rented to residents with incomes at or below 60 percent of the median income, or $48,780 for a two-person household. 
 In White Plains, in a project not using county funds, the nonprofit Community Housing Innovations and the city have broken ground on Minerva Place Condominiums, 14 units for families with incomes between 80 and 100 percent of the county's median income. The city is contributing land and about $75,000 a unit from its Affordable Housing Fund.
 Unlike most below-market developments, which are limited to families earning less than 80 percent of the area median income, Minerva Place is designed to attract families with two wage earners, who do not typically qualify for such housing.
 Some communities, Mount Kisco, Rye Brook and Briarcliff Manor among them, are also contributing units meeting local affordability standards for those earning 100 or 125 percent of the area median income, rather than the county's more restrictive definitions. 
 Low-cost housing can make a significant difference in the quality of life -- not only for young workers like Ms. Corso in Hastings, but also for elderly residents like Rose and Sidney Weiner, who can no longer manage alone in their two-bedroom Yonkers apartment.
 Mrs. Weiner, a former teacher's assistant in the Bronx, and her husband, a retired factory worker, are moving this fall to Garito Manor at Union Square, a 102-unit assisted-living-type complex in New Rochelle. The $30 million project is being built by the New Rochelle Neighborhood Revitalization Corporation with local, county, state and federal money.
 ''It's a big decision to move to affordable housing, but we have to do it,'' Mrs. Weiner said. ''At least we'll get help in the new place, and what else could we find on a fixed income?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW HOME: Jen Corso, cable access coordinator in Hastings-on-Hudson, will move into a lower-cost apartment there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 GOING UP: Less-than-market-rate units under construction on Alto Avenue in Port Chester. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE6) MAP: Affordability Gap: The Westchester County Housing Opportunity Commission has set goals for the number of below-market-rate housing units to be built by 2015. As of 2007, many communities had not built any units. Of those which have not started building, many are communities with few minorities. (Source: Westchester County Housing Opportunity Commission)(WE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (89%); LITIGATION (88%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (88%); DISCRIMINATION (85%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUMMARY JUDGMENT (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); JUDGES (66%); RACE & RACISM (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



750 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Settlement Returns Water to Indians, Giving Hope for a Healthier Way of Life

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: GILA RIVER INDIAN COMMUNITY, Ariz. 

 BODY:
-- More than a hundred years ago, the Gila River, siphoned off by farmers upstream, all but dried up here in the parched flats south of Phoenix, plunging an Indian community that had depended on it for centuries of farming into starvation and poverty.
 If that was not bad enough, food rations sent by the federal government -- white flour, lard, canned meats and other sugary, processed foods -- conspired with the genetic anomalies of the Indians to sow an obesity epidemic that has left the reservation with among the highest rates of diabetes in the world. 
 Now, after decades of litigation that produced the largest water-rights settlement ever in Indian country, the Indians here are getting some of their water back. And with it has come the question: Can a healthier lifestyle lost generations ago be restored?
 Reviving the farming tradition will prove difficult, many tribal members say, because the tribes, who number 20,000, including about 12,000 on the reservation, have not farmed on a big scale for generations. Fast food is a powerful lure particularly for the young, and the trend of late has been to move off the reservation, to work or live. 
 ''Nobody wants to get out and get dirt under their fingernails,'' said Pancratious Harvey, one of a handful of tribal members who began a community garden a couple of years ago.
 Still, the garden, which is filled with vegetables that were once staples in the tribe's diet, is a sign of enthusiasm for farming that members believe could spread as the water arrives.
 On the reservation, the sound of earthmovers fills the air as workers repair dilapidated and abandoned irrigation canals and ditches and dig new ones to distribute billions of gallons of water that the community will soon be receiving. 
 The water settlement, involving the two principal tribes on the Gila River reservation -- the Pima, who call themselves Akimel O'otham, or ''river people,'' and the Maricopa -- as well as a related band, the Tohono O'odham Nation on the Mexican border, took effect this year, after being approved by Congress in 2004.
 It will take several more years to complete the irrigation and related projects here, at a cost to the federal government of about $680 million, but when done it will allow the community to double the amount of farming, both an economic and cultural boon.
 For the time being, the community garden, with squash, beans and other vegetables is just over two acres. ''We're relearning how to grow them,'' said Ed Mendoza, one of the founders of the garden, the Vah-Ki Cooperative Garden. ''People get sick with diabetes, they're obese, and there are heart attacks and stress because we eat an American diet now. Beans regulate the highs and lows of sugar. Okra makes you healthy. You can eat this food and feel the spirit immediately.''
 Elsewhere, several members are acquiring plots in hopes of growing traditional crops as well as more profitable ones like alfalfa. Gila River Farms, the largest tribal agriculture outfit, plans to double its farming, to some 35,000 acres, once the water begins flowing again.
 Most of the water was diverted in the late 19th century, slowing the Gila River to a trickle. It was a startling turn of events for a tribe whose ancestors had thrived on the river for generations through an elaborate system of ditches and laterals, some of them still visible today.
 The construction of the Coolidge Dam, completed in 1928, by the federal government was intended to restore some of the lost water, but the reservation never received enough to bring back farming in any big way. Later diversions also depleted the Salt River, which runs north of the reservation and helped support farming as well.
 As the water disappeared and the Pima switched to government rations as their staple, obesity, alcoholism and diabetes exploded.
 Where adult-onset diabetes was hardly present a century ago, it is now everywhere and has been the subject of decades of research by government scientists. More than half of the population over 25 has it, and a rising number of children are getting it.
 Scientists have found the genetic makeup of the tribe leaves it predisposed to weight gain from sugary foods. That, coupled with the decline in activity from farming and the drop in the consumption of natural foods, probably explains the high rate of the disease, said Leonard Sanders, a diabetes specialist on the reservation.
 He said the Pima's sister tribe in Mexico, which has kept up farming and eating off the land, has normal rates of the disease.
 The Pima had long wanted the water back and by the late 1980s, buoyed by trends in water-rights laws and a new brand of reservation-born negotiators, serious talks began.
 Water claims are usually complicated, hotly disputed affairs in the warm, dry West. Add in issues of Indian rights and sovereignty and it is perhaps not surprising that it took more than 30 years to reach the settlement. 
 It provides the reservation 653,500 acre-feet of water a year (an acre-foot is equivalent to about one family's water use annually) coming from a mix of sources, with the Central Arizona Project tapping the Colorado River providing the biggest share. It also includes the $680 million to rebuild the irrigation system and to provide drainage, water monitoring and other benefits.
 It may seem a staggering amount of water, but federal and state officials said the reservation might have gained much more had it prevailed in court. It had asked for two million acre-feet, for one thing, based in part on documented use of the river going back to the 16th century.
 ''It wasn't a matter of if the tribes would win at trial,'' said Gregg Houtz, the lead lawyer for the state's Department of Water Resources in the settlement agreement. ''It was a matter of how much.''
 A big reason for settling, federal and state officials said, was to provide all sides certainty and clarity over how much water they will have now and in the coming decades. The reservation had already received or been promised about two-thirds of the water in the settlement, but, Mr. Houtz said, the additional water makes the Gila River Indians major water brokers as they lease some of it to cities and could vault the tribe to the top of farming in the state as well.
 The reservation has discussed farming some 150,000 acres, 40 percent of its 372,000 acres, but it is planning to avoid large housing developments.
 Said Rodney B. Lewis, the community's former general counsel who helped negotiate the settlement, ''we will be an island'' amid suburban Phoenix's sea of subdivisions.
 The Gila River itself will remain largely dry; the water from the settlement will be delivered and distributed through a system of culverts and canals.
 And it will take much effort to reverse the legacy of poor health, though programs abound, intended for the young and the old, to combat diabetes. Medical officials are particularly alarmed at a rise in the rate of the disease among the young.
 Georgina Charles, 74, a diabetes sufferer, attends a regular exercise class for the elderly and says she watches what she eats, but acknowledges that she and others find it difficult to ignore detrimental food. One recent night she prepared traditional fry bread for a community event, substituting vegetable oil for the usual lard but laughing at the obvious.
 ''It's not too good for us, but we eat it,'' Ms. Charles said.
 Just a few miles away, the community gardeners adjusted hoses as the weekly delivery of water arrived and took stock of their crops. The water they use comes from an underground aquifer, but they are contemplating how they might tap into the settlement water and promote natural foods.
 Schoolchildren visit the garden and some of its produce ends up on tables at community functions but, members said, more needs to be done to take full advantage of the water.
 ''When we lost that water, we lost generations of farming,'' said Janet Haskie, a community gardener. ''Then people had the attitude like, 'They owe us. I'm going to take these rations.' So now we have to start over again, a little at a time.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 2, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about efforts by Indians on the Gila River reservation in Arizona to regain water rights and promote a healthier way of life misstated, in some editions, the given name of a diabetes specialist on the reservation. He is Leonard Sanders, not Larry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: d Mendoza, co-founder of a garden cooperative, uses traditional irrigation for organic crops in the Gila River Indian Community in Arizona. High rates of diabetes and obesity are a problem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRRIGATION (89%); WATER RIGHTS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); GARDENING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); STARVATION (77%); OBESITY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); PROPERTY LAW (75%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); LITIGATION (70%); DIABETES (70%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (63%); EPIDEMICS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (88%) ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



751 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Check Credit Unions for Deals

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
WHILE mortgage brokers are widely regarded as a good source of information for borrowers seeking a wide choice of loans, there is one potentially good deal that these brokers usually do not offer: credit union mortgages.
 These loans, which are available to anyone who meets a credit union's membership terms, are not typically marketed through brokers, yet they have grown increasingly attractive in recent months.
 Late last month, for instance, Bethpage Federal Credit Union of Long Island offered an adjustable rate mortgage at 4.875 percent. The loan carries a fixed rate for three years, and can thereafter adjust by a maximum of two percentage points either annually or every three years, depending on the particular product. The rate can never exceed 10.875 percent. 
 Other adjustable rate mortgages, or ARMs, available on Long Island at the time charged interest rates about 1.5 percentage points higher. On a $350,000 mortgage, which is the average amount for a loan at Bethpage Federal, the difference in a borrower's monthly payment would amount to $303.
 ARMs fall in and out of favor, depending on the spread between interest rates on these loans and rates on long-term fixed-rate loans. With long-term fixed rates rising in recent months, some lenders have seen renewed interest in ARMs.
 According to Michele Dean, the senior vice president of lending for Bethpage Federal, credit unions can charge lower rates than conventional lenders because they are nonprofit institutions.
 Credit unions' rates on fixed-rate mortgages, Ms. Dean said, are also often slightly better than those of other lenders because the company does not build a profit margin into its loans. So on a 30-year fixed-rate loan late last month, Bethpage Federal was charging 6.5 percent interest. That was equal to the prevailing market rate, but while other lenders in the Northeast charged an up-front fee of about six-tenths of 1 percent of the loan amount, Bethpage charged no points.
 Bethpage Federal has 140,000 members, who pay $5 to join. Membership is open to anyone who lives, works, worships or conducts business on Long Island, and to members' immediate relatives. Other credit unions have similarly low barriers to entry. (For a list of local credit unions, see the ''credit union locator'' link near the top of the Credit Union National Association's Web site, www.cuna.org.)
 Other credit unions in the greater New York area had similar rates. The Polish and Slavic Federal Credit Union, which offers mortgages in New York and New Jersey, had interest rates of 5.625 percent late last month, while American Eagle Federal Credit Union in Connecticut had interest rates of 5.375 percent.
 Bill Hampel, chief economist for the Credit Union National Association, said credit unions had weathered the mortgage crisis better than conventional lenders because ''they're fairly conservative and tend to lend to people they know fairly well.''
 Mr. Hampel said credit unions had seen a surge in mortgage lending in the past year, which is unusual in a tight economy. ''During a recession, the consumer's standard reaction is to cut back on borrowing, but it's been different this time,'' he said. 
 Unlike many other lenders, Mr. Hampel said, ''credit unions still have money to lend.''
 Community banks and savings banks, Mr. Hampel said, are in similar positions, although these for-profit institutions may have higher interest rates. ''But because there's more variation in pricing now than normal,'' he said, ''it really pays the consumer to look around.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Adjustable and fixed rate mortgaes (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT UNIONS (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: POLISH & SLAVIC FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (61%); CREDIT UNION NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (61%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%); NEW JERSEY, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



752 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; GAMBLING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Slots Revenue Falls As Lottery Sales Rise

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

 BODY:
SLOT machine revenues at Connecticut's casinos have dropped just as state lottery sales are rising, two trends that may be linked by high gas prices and the region's ailing economy.
 Some gamblers who have less to spend these days and do not want to use up money on ever-costlier gasoline are buying lottery tickets rather than driving to casinos to play the slots, say some of those who study the industry.
 ''To go to a casino is a much more expensive proposition than to buy a lottery ticket. And the lottery is right around the corner,'' said Paul R. Sternburg, vice president for sales and marketing for Connecticut's lottery operation. ''I think we're going to have another good year.'' 
 The problem for Connecticut taxpayers is that the increase in lottery revenues will only partly offset the decrease in slot machine revenues, a critical piece of the state budget.
 The state, which gets 25 percent of casino slot revenue, saw its share drop by more than $19 million in the fiscal year 2007-8, to $411.4 million. Lottery revenue increased by $4 million for the same period, to $283 million for the fiscal year that ended June 30.
 Officials at the Mohegan Sun and Foxwoods Resort Casino and MGM Grand at Foxwoods said the drop in play at their slot machines amounted to a 9.4 percent reduction in the state's share of revenue in July compared to the same month last year.
 While the increase in gasoline prices may be keeping some players out of the casinos, some gambling executives say increased competition from slot machine and video lottery operations in neighboring states may be an even more important factor in their loss of slot revenue.
 Overall revenues at Connecticut's casinos totaled more than $2.53 billion in 2007, according to the newly released Indian Gaming Industry Report. The study, written by the economist Alan Meister for the Casino City Press, said the state's two casinos showed an increase of only 1.6 percent over the prior year.
 New York, which expanded gambling facilities at six racetracks in 2006 and 2007, had an increase of 94.3 percent in revenue from racetrack slot machines or video lottery games last year, to $828.2 million. Rhode Island's expanded gambling operations boosted revenue by 10.2 percent, to $448 million in 2007, and an establishment in Maine had a 15.3 percent boost, to $43.3 million.
 Connecticut's tribal casinos are trying to compete with major expansions. The Mashantucket Pequots opened the new $700 million MGM Grand at Foxwoods casino in May. The Mohegan Sun's Project Horizon expansion is expected to cost $925 million by the time it is completed in 2010.
 ''People are still coming here,'' said Mitchell G. Etess, chief executive of the Mohegan Sun casino. He said that there continue to be large crowds for sporting and other entertainment events, but that people were not gambling as much as they once did.
 ''I think they're prioritizing their spending,'' Mr. Etess said. He said he believed there could be a link between reduced gambling on slot machines and increased lottery sales. ''We actually could be seeing that,'' he said.
 But not everyone agrees that slot revenue declines and increased Connecticut lottery sales are linked.
 Barry Cregan, interim president of Foxwoods, said the main problems were the economy and ''gas prices at $4-something a gallon.'' But he said he doubted there was any ''correlation between lottery sales and slot machines.''
 Mr. Sternburg said that the lottery was competing with the casinos ''for the same discretionary dollars,'' and that gas prices and the sluggish economy were playing a significant role.
 The director of the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas, David G. Schwartz, calls the potential effect of the poor economic climate on gambling ''a very interesting test case.''
 ''Are we going to see across-the-board declines in gambling revenues?'' he asked. ''Are people playing the lottery more?''
 Mr. Schwartz said many of the people who like playing the slot machines at Foxwoods or the Mohegan Sun were from Massachusetts, New York, Rhode Island and Pennsylvania. And if they are staying home and buying lottery tickets because of economic troubles, they would be playing their home state lottery games.
 Higher travel costs could also help the Connecticut casinos by encouraging people in the Northeast to stay closer to home to gamble rather than taking increasingly expensive trips to places like Las Vegas, Mr. Schwartz said.
 Paul A. Young, executive director of the Connecticut Division of Special Revenue, said he did not ''discount the issue of the economy'' in the decline of state slot machine revenues. But he said he thought a more important factor was that Connecticut casinos were facing increased competition from slot operations in neighboring states.
 Rhode Island has more than 4,750 video lottery machines operating at the recently expanded Twin River greyhound racetrack in Lincoln. Begun in 2006, the operation's expansion was completed last fall.
 Mr. Cregan said video lottery terminals had become so sophisticated at emulating slot machine-style games that ''the customer sees it as a slot experience.''
 The head of Connecticut's state budget office, Robert L. Genuario, said he did not think the state should worry too much about rises or declines in gambling dollars. ''I'm not counting on an increase in the lottery to make up for less slot revenue,'' he said.
 But Mr. Schwartz said continuing state efforts to boost lottery sales during hard economic times could put officials in a difficult position of encouraging citizens with shrinking incomes to gamble.
 ''A lot of people would find that in bad taste,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TIGHTER TIMES: The chief executive of Mohegan Sun in Uncasville said visitors to the casino aren't gambling as much. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
 MARKET FORCES: To fight competition from other states, Mohegan Sun will open a major expansion in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES(CT5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES (94%); GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); TRENDS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); NATIVE AMERICANS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO (67%); MOHEGAN TRIBAL GAMING AUTHORITY (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (67%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



753 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Zogby's Crystal Ball

BYLINE: By JOE QUEENAN. 
Joe Queenan writes for Barron's, The Guardian, Golf Digest and The Los Angeles Times.

 BODY:
THE WAY WE'LL BE
 The Zogby Report on the Transformation of the American Dream
 By John Zogby
 235 pp. Random House. $26
 In the opening pages of ''The Way We'll Be: The Zogby Report on the Transformation of the American Dream,'' the pollster John Zogby describes people between ages 18 and 29 as ''the first colorblind Americans.'' Presumably this means that young African-Americans attending Nascar rallies won't notice all those Confederate flag headbands the colorblind good old boys are sporting and that Yalies whose BMWs break down at 3 a.m. outside a hip-hop club in East New York won't notice that there don't seem to be a lot of Whiffenpoof aficionados in the immediate vicinity. What Zogby probably means to say is that the demographic group he refers to as ''the First Globals'' is the first generation of Americans who would have the nerve to describe themselves as being colorblind and not expect to be laughed at. Whenever I see glowing reports about colorblind white people, I wonder how many black people were included in the polling sample. 
 ''The Way We'll Be,'' a book that addresses ''the current state of America, the likelihoods of the close-in future and the movement of our underlying social geology,'' is nothing if not upbeat. A rigorously pseudoscientific examination of ''the new plate tectonics of American society,'' it asserts that a ''new consensus . . . is emerging,'' and that the political and cultural divisiveness of the past few decades will soon go the way of the Edsel, the Hula Hoop and young people who notice other people's races. 
 ''My surveying shows that we are in the middle of a fundamental reorientation of the American character away from wanton consumption and toward a new global citizenry in an age of limited resources,'' Zogby declares. And if his numbers are to be trusted, things are going to be absolutely peachy. Racism is headed for the ashcan of history, as is greed. Blogs are going to clean the mainstream media's clocks, thereby rescuing some of the world's most admired forests. Alternative sources of energy are in; rape of the environment, out. YouTube and Stephen Colbert will make it impossible for politicians to lie about their record -- and we all know how much politicians fear that. Corporations that maximize shareholder value at the expense of employees or the environment will be shunned, and if you're exploiting child labor, you're quickly going to find yourself on the fighting side of most American female consumers. 
 That's not all. Big cars have had their day in the sun; from now on, energy-efficient vehicles will rule the roost. Microbreweries will undermine the stodgy old Budweiser/Miller Lite paradigm. And China, Americans of all ages agree, will pose the biggest economic threat to America, while North Korea will pose the most formidable military threat. (In these cases, Zogby is engaging in what is known as ''reverse prognostication,'' a process whereby a pollster stakes his reputation on correctly prophesying events that have already occurred.) 
 Oh, but there is more. Americans of the near future will be deeply concerned about places like Darfur, even if they cannot find Darfur on a map. Many of them will get their degrees from online universities, where the odds of being able to pinpoint Darfur's location will be even less good. The best news of all is that in the years to come, smear campaigns, bogus ''truth squads'' and cynicism in general will no longer be effective weapons in politics -- i.e., you can fool some of the First Globals some of the time, and most of the First Globals all of the time, but you can't fool all of the First Globals all of the time, because First Globals have more sophisticated plate tectonics than their parents. 
 One cause of this cultural about-face from decades of churlishness, avarice, environmental rapine and racism is the Internet. Zogby believes that by making information available that was previously difficult to retrieve, the Internet will turn us all into better citizens. (He does shy away from reports that a gigantic portion of Internet activity is related to pornography. But this is perhaps because watching a lot of pornography and becoming a better citizen are not mutually exclusive activities.) These myriad forces are coalescing to bring about a glorious new era in American life, where honesty, transparency and old-fashioned straight talk will dominate. As the pollster says about today's consumers, ''they are sick right up to their eyeballs of false promises and phony claims.'' Indeed, ''the generation now rising to power is fundamentally different in its aspirations and expectations from the 'Greatest Generation' now rapidly fading into the sunset.'' 
 And not a moment too soon. 
 A small portion of ''The Way We'll Be'' is devoted to dazzling tidbits of information one probably couldn't find elsewhere. Red Skelton, making a surprise return from the mortuary, narrowly edges out Bill Cosby as ''the funniest comedic performer of all time.'' Eighty-six percent of Atlanta-based Asians have never heard of Homer's ''Iliad'' or ''Odyssey,'' but 72 percent can tell you the name of Homer Simpson's son. Men now identify the heart, followed closely by the brain, as the body part they value most in a woman; breasts, losing most of their old star power, finish a dismal second-from-last, trailed only by the feet. Settling an argument that has been raging for years, Zogby cites a Census Bureau study proving that ''to be poor in America is not the same as being poor in Haiti or Bangladesh or much of Africa.'' More astonishing still, 35 percent of First Globals support the idea of allowing scientists to recreate woolly mammoths. The book does not say to what uses the woolly mammoths would then be put -- wiping out poverty in Darfur, providing entertainment at colorblind frat parties, replacing Red Skelton as the funniest comic of all time -- but it is precisely these sorts of out-of-the-box inquiries that separate John Zogby from run-of-the-mill pollsters. There's simply no telling what marketers and demographers can reap from this treasure-trove of data. 
 Though Zogby attempts to be nonpartisan, the underlying message of his book is that authenticity is entering a golden age, cupidity is kaput and cynicism will soon be a thing of the past. That and the fact that he seems to have a soft spot in his heart for Al Gore and Anna Quindlen suggest that he hates Republicans. A dominant theme of his book is that mean old white men who drive big cars are a spent force. I only wish this were so; for quite some time I've been thinking of cleaning out my desk and heading for the exits now that society no longer needs me. But as my wise old mentor, the Barron's editor and columnist Alan Abelson, used to remind me, the con man's favorite pitch line is: ''This time it's different.'' Before World War I, there was a common European belief that progress was inevitable. The First Battle of the Somme ended that. Zogby, a Pollyanna if there ever was one, seems to have infinite faith in mankind's ability to perfect itself. We'll see. 
 Part of the problem in the pop clairvoyance racket is that not all oracles are equally Delphic. Zogby, who loves to coin cloying terms like ''Secular Spiritualists'' and ''the Dreamless Dead,'' describes pollsters as ''priests and philosophers . . . peering through the veil of time.'' He adds, ''Unlike priests and philosophers, though, . . . we at least have the data to back us up.'' 
 Priests and philosophers may disagree. Did the pollsters who predicted a Kerry-Edwards victory in 2004 have the data to back themselves up? Were the pollsters who said, ''Watch out for that Fred Thompson surge!'' and ''Keep your eyes peeled for that Wesley Clark tsunami!'' supported by any solid numbers? Did the pollsters who had Hillary Clinton facing off against Rudy Giuliani in November have much success peering through the veil of time? Sorry, Mr. Zogby, but when the public is in the market for prognostications, a lot of us are sticking with Aristotle, Descartes, Fulton J. Sheen, St. Jude and Nostradamus. Prophecy-wise, they've got a better track record.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RON BARRETT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); CHILD LABOR (75%); RACE & RACISM (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); NASCAR RACING (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); WOMEN (68%); WOMEN'S MARKET (68%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (64%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

PERSON: STEPHEN COLBERT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (98%)

TITLE: The Way We'll Be (Book)>; The Way We'll Be (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



754 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; NOVELTIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Lines and Bubbles and Bars, Oh My! New Ways to Sift Data

BYLINE: By ANNE EISENBERG. 
E-mail: novelties@nytimes.com

 BODY:
PEOPLE share their videos on YouTube and their photos at Flickr. Now they can share more technical types of displays: graphs, charts and other visuals they create to help them analyze data buried in spreadsheets, tables or text.
 At an experimental Web site, Many Eyes, (www.many-eyes.com), users can upload the data they want to visualize, then try sophisticated tools to generate interactive displays. These might range from maps of relationships in the New Testament to a display of the comparative frequency of words used in speeches by Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama. 
 The site was created by scientists at the Watson Research Center of I.B.M. in Cambridge, Mass., to help people publish and discuss graphics in a group. Those who register at the site can comment on one another's work, perhaps visualizing the same information with different tools and discovering unexpected patterns in the data. 
 Collaboration like this can be an effective way to spur insight, said Pat Hanrahan, a professor of computer science at Stanford whose research includes scientific visualization. ''When analyzing information, no single person knows it all,'' he said. ''When you have a group look at data, you protect against bias. You get more perspectives, and this can lead to more reliable decisions.'' 
 The site is the brainchild of Martin Wattenberg and Fernanda B. Viegas, two I.B.M. researchers at the Cambridge lab. Dr. Wattenberg, a computer scientist and mathematician, says sophisticated visualization tools have historically been the province of professionals in academia, business and government. ''We want to bring visualization to a whole new audience,'' he said -- to people who have had relatively few ways to create and discuss such use of data. 
 ''The conversation about the data is as important as the flow of data from the database,'' he said.
 The Many Eyes site, begun in January 2007, offers 16 ways to present data, from stack graphs and bar charts to diagrams that let people map relationships. TreeMaps, showing information in colorful rectangles, are among the popular tools. 
 Initially, the site offered only analytical tools like graphs for visualizing numerical data. ''The interesting thing we noticed was that users kept trying to upload blog posts, and entire books,'' Dr. Viegas said, so the site added techniques for unstructured text. One tool, called an interleaved tag cloud, lets users compare side by side the relative frequencies of the words in two passages -- for instance, President Bush's State of the Union addresses in 2002 and 2003.
 Almost all the tools are interactive, allowing users to change parameters, zoom in or out or show more information when the mouse moves over an image, Dr. Wattenberg said.
 Users can embed images and links to their visualizations in their Web sites or blogs, just as they can embed YouTube videos. ''It's great that people can paste in a YouTube video of cats'' on their blogs, Dr. Viegas said. ''So why not a visual that gives you some insight into the sea of data that surrounds us? I might find one thing; someone else, something completely different, and that's where the conversation starts.''
 Rich Hoeg, a technology manager who lives in New Hope, Minn., and has a blog at econtent.typepad.com, was so taken with the possibilities for group collaboration that he wrote a tutorial on using Many Eyes as part of his series called ''NorthStar Nerd Tutorials.'' 
 ''Many Eyes is unusual, because it takes advantage of the collective intelligence of a group to get more out of a data set,'' he said. For the tutorial, Mr. Hoeg exported enrollment data for graduate engineering students to the site, then used one of the tools there to display the information in various ways. 
 ''I wanted people to understand that you can take the same data and have it tell lots of different stories,'' he said. 
 Dr. Wattenberg noted an example from the site. In charting a particular topic -- deaths resulting from human violence in the 20th century -- one user originally presented a bubble graph in which the size of the circles represented the number of casualties tied to an event -- for instance, World War I or World War II. After discussion on the site about the substantial growth in population during the 20th century, the originator offered two new time-based visualizations of the data, one a line graph and the other a stack graph -- plotting the number of casualties against this growing population. 
 ''You could see a new downward trend emerge,'' Dr. Wattenberg said. ''Violent deaths declined in the latter decades of the century. It's a slightly more optimistic view.''
 Ben Shneiderman, a professor in the computer science department at the University of Maryland, College Park, and a pioneer in information visualization, says sites like Many Eyes are helping to democratize the tools of visualization. ''The gift of the Internet is that everyone can participate, and the tools can be brought to a much wider audience,'' he said.
 Presenting results in a static spreadsheet or table may do the job. ''But sometimes it's like driving with your eyes closed,'' he said. ''With visualization, it might be possible to open your eyes and see something that will help you'' -- for instance, patterns, clusters, gaps or outliers in the data. 
 ''The great fun of information visualization,'' he said, ''is that it gives you answers to questions you didn't know you had.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Data can be organized many ways on Many Eyes. Above is a chart of Olympic medals
 the one at right shows occurrences of names in the New Testament. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (74%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



755 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Fiction Chronicle

BYLINE: Reviews by JEFF TURRENTINE. 
Jeff Turrentine is a contributing writer for Architectural Digest.

 BODY:
AUGUST By Gerard Woodward. Norton, paper, $14.95. It doesn't seem possible Woodward would allow anything bad to happen to the affable members of this slightly eccentric English family, whose lives he details over the course of 15 years. That the years happen to be 1955 through 1970 offers a clue, though, that at least a few of them are going to have trouble adapting to a world where solid British manners are being tested by modernity. A good-natured art teacher named Aldous Jones looks forward each year to the month when he, his wife and children can vacation in the Welsh countryside, their arrival ''a cataloging and celebration of sameness'' that anchors them spiritually. But when his son Janus -- an aptly named piano prodigy who can't keep his creative and destructive halves in balance -- begins to fall apart, the aftershock sends another family member seeking chemical comfort, leaving Aldous to wonder whether ''the territory of madness is entered by a doorway of crystallized normality.'' Some readers may already know what becomes of the Jones family, as this novel is the first in a trilogy whose American publisher strangely saw fit to release the second and third volumes, ''I'll Go to Bed at Noon'' and ''A Curious Earth,'' before this one. 
No matter. What ultimately becomes of the Jones family may not be a mystery, but how it all happens is the stuff of great, if sad, suspense. 
 WHAT HAPPENED TO ANNA K. By Irina Reyn. Touchstone, $24. It takes a lot of self-confidence to suggest that your first novel is a modern-day retelling of ''Anna Karenina.'' But once you're finished marveling at Reyn's audacity, her formidable storytelling gift sweeps you along and keeps you turning the pages in rapt anticipation, even as you're aware that the sound in the distance is the rumble of that inevitable approaching train. This Anna is the assimilated, Manhattan-dwelling daughter of Russian Jewish immigrants who still live in Rego Park, Queens, where the women shop at discount stores with names like Parisian Chic and a representative male suitor wears his ''Gucci label mysteriously affixed to the outside of his clothing.'' When Anna marries a wealthy Russian businessman, it takes about 20 minutes for her to begin wishing she'd ended up with someone more like her cousin Katia's boyfriend, David, an academic who lives downtown, runs marathons and woos Anna by name-dropping Nabokov over their coffee-shop assignations. The Moscow-born Reyn clearly knows a thing or two about straddling cultures; she can also straddle the line between cheekiness and reverence with aplomb. 
 APPLES By Richard Milward. Canongate, paper, $15. Think of it as ''Less Than Nought.'' In this bleak but absorbing first novel, dissolute teenagers in Northern England try to anesthetize themselves with the temporary highs provided by sex and drugs. Adam and Eve -- give Milward a break; he was only 19 when he invented his characters -- live in Middlesbrough, the sort of grimy, rainy industrial town where one ''could hardly tell what was smoke and what was mist.'' Eve is the more self-assured of the two, going clubbing at night with her friends, blithely mixing alcohol, Ecstasy and amyl-nitrite poppers, doing anything she can to avoid going home to face the fact of her mother's cancer. Socially awkward Adam is more comfortable staying in his room with his guitar and playing along to Beatles songs, even though life with an abusive father has meant that ''none of the happy songs made much sense to me anyway.'' Rape and infanticide are but two of the horrors that this novel's hard-to-horrify band of schoolmates commit, endure or shrug off. If this terrifyingly talented author really does have his finger on the pulse of today's youth, parents should probably just give up right now. 
 COMMONWEALTH By Joey Goebel. MacAdam/Cage, $24. The more we learn about Blue Gene Mapother -- a mullet-wearing former Wal-Mart employee who lives in a trailer, attends monster-truck rallies and loves to show his support for the troops -- the more he seems like a composite dreamed up by the cultural critic Thomas Frank. Frank's 2004 book ''What's the Matter With Kansas?'' pondered why the members of America's working class align themselves with a political movement hostile to their economic interests. Goebel poses the same question -- and since he's a novelist, he can do wacky and credulity-stretching things like give his main character upper-crust parents, an untapped trust fund and a Harvard-educated brother running for Congress. The estranged Blue Gene makes qualified amends with his aristocratic kin once his brother calculates that having a proletarian for a sibling might help him win over blue-collar voters. But the cute punk-rock girl who chides Blue Gene (''Do they hand out, like, pamphlets telling you what to say about these topics when all of you buy your pickup trucks?'') is forcing him, uncomfortably, to reconsider his positions. For a good while it seems as if Goebel might pull off his ambitious feat; sadly, the narrative skids wildly out of control and ends up veering into comic-book lunacy. But Blue Gene Mapother -- gosh, that unusual last name has got to be an anagram for something -- is drawn without scorn or condescension, and you'll cheer for him all the way to this novel's disappointing end. 
 DEMONS IN THE SPRING Stories. By Joe Meno. Akashic Books, $24.95. Meno's quirky stories can't quite make up their minds. Sometimes they're feeling meta, like ''What a Schoolgirl You Are,'' which borrows the central device from the popular Choose Your Own Adventurechildren's books to frame a melancholy high schooler's confusing and conflicting array of destinies. Other times they're almost nostalgic -- Salingerian, even -- like ''Get Well, Seymour!,'' in which a hyper-articulate young man looking after his little sister gets a crash course in the heady emotional math of adulthood. The strongest stories in this collection (with accompanying illustrations by different artists) don't try too hard to dazzle with formal virtuosity but let Meno slowly pull his characters out from their own peculiar inner worlds into the one we recognize, for better or for worse, as the ''real'' world. Loss seems to be the lingua franca that unites these souls; Meno's sympathy for them is acute, and he never lets fictional pyrotechnics blind him, or us, to their humanity.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EDWARD STEICHEN IN HIGH FASHION: The Conde Nast Years, 1923-1937. By William A. Ewing and Todd Brandow. Illustrated. 287 pp. Norton. $75. These 242 photographs, which originally appeared in Vogue and Vanity Fair, show Steichen's contributions to the fields of fashion photography and celebrity portraiture. Above, Martha Graham, 1931. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD STEICHEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (87%); PUBLISHING (66%); FASHION DESIGNERS (64%); MARATHONS (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%) NEW YORK, USA (52%) WALES (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); UNITED STATES (52%)

TITLE: August (Book)>; What Happened to Anna K. (Book)>; Apples (Book)>; Commonwealth (Book)>; Demons in the Spring (Book)>; August (Book)>; What Happened to Anna K. (Book)>; Apples (Book)>; Commonwealth (Book)>; Demons in the Spring (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



756 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Michelle Koehn, James Peng

 BODY:
Michelle Meeseon Koehn, a daughter of Lynda A. Koehn and Kevin J. Koehn of Chippewa Falls, Wis., was married on Saturday to Dr. James Shaotsung Peng, the son of the late Chien Fang Peng and Han Sheng Peng of Sacramento. Judge Benjamin D. Proctor of the Eau Claire County Circuit Court in Wisconsin officiated at the Fanny Hill Victorian Inn in Eau Claire. 
 Ms. Koehn, 27, is a publicist in the San Francisco office of Burson-Marsteller, the public relations firm in New York. She graduated from the University of Wisconsin. She is on the board of the Asian American Women Artists Association, a nonprofit support and mentoring group in San Francisco, and is also on the board of APA/FIVE, a nonprofit group in San Francisco that encourages mentoring programs among established and future urban professionals. Her mother is a receptionist at an Eau Claire branch of Royal Credit Union bank. Her father is the owner of American Business Consultants in Eau Claire. 
 Dr. Peng, 33, is an emergency medicine resident in Sacramento at the University of California, Davis Medical Center. He graduated from Amherst, where he received a bachelor's degree in economics. He received a medical degree from State University of New York's Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn. His mother was a waitress in Manlius, N.Y. His father retired as a mechanic for Production Product Company in Manlius.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (56%)

COMPANY: BURSON-MARSTELLER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



757 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; JOURNEYS SALTO AND GUAVIYu; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Waters in Uruguay's Gaucho Corner

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN N. GEDAN

 BODY:
TO many travelers, Uruguay is known -- if at all -- for Punta del Este, the Atlantic coastal beach resort called the South American Riviera by Argentine landlords who have gobbled up the peninsula's seaside real estate. 
 In good times, that image guarantees steady business for the seafood restaurants and the boutiques that serve the luxury hotels and condominiums. But being tethered to Argentina's tumultuous economy has its risks, and Uruguay has suffered from financial crises that originated in its larger neighbor.
 Of the 1.8 million visitors to Uruguay in 2006, more than half were Argentine. But quietly, Uruguay is developing a second vacation spot that may help uncouple its tourism fortunes from Buenos Aires. It has found its best hope 3,000 feet underground, in the hot springs along the Uruguay River, a once-isolated region that even Uruguayans lump in with the rest of the ''interior'' -- anywhere outside Punta del Este and the capital, Montevideo.
 Since the discovery of the hot springs in the 1940s, by an oil exploration team wildcatting along the Argentine border, Uruguay has developed an impressively varied string of private resorts, public campgrounds, water parks and dude ranches. All tap the Guarani Aquifer, the largest in the continent, funneling its toasty and mineral-rich water into indoor and outdoor baths. 
 That effort has sparked internal migrations during holiday weekends, when Montevideo, home to nearly half the country's population of nearly 3.5 million, empties. It has also kept the border crossings busy at the Uruguay River across from northeastern Argentina, the route from both Buenos Aires and Asuncion, Paraguay.
 But word of the hot springs has not spread far. Americans who make it to Uruguay, mostly on cruise ships, are still almost certain to drop anchor in Montevideo and Punta del Este only.
 There is reason to believe, however, that this might be changing. As American travelers trickle across the Rio de la Plata, they are discovering in the hot springs an authentically Uruguayan experience that comes without sacrificing the comforts of the coastal resorts.
 Arapey Thermal is at the top end of hot springs lodgings, and it is also the most remote, some 350 miles from Montevideo and with little access to an international airport. But the resort's owners have settled a patch of civilization in gaucho country.
 At check-in, members of the hotel staff slap a cerulean bracelet, the color of Uruguay's flag, on the wrist of overnight guests, bestowing access to five thermal pools, a movie theater and tennis courts. It is also the key to the restaurant, where the culture of the hotel's spa -- an oasis of hot steam, hot tubs and hot-stone massages -- gives way to Uruguayan excess. Sure, there are rice cakes and grapefruit with the cafe con leche at breakfast. But by lunch, all that wading in warm water has built up an appetite, so the buffet is piled high with grilled chicken in orange sauce, with the crispy skin left tantalizingly in place, and hunks of beef and sausage off the parrilla, the traditional grill.
 Nor is there pressure to rise with the sun for yoga, not with dinner ending around midnight and guests partying to karaoke in the game room. But just because you can follow your facial with a filet mignon does not mean there is no relaxation. For that, the isolation helps, leaving few options for the afternoon but to float until your fingers prune. The indoor and outdoor pools connect beneath a glass divider, and swimmers, like seals at an aquarium, come and go without retreating to their towels. In the South American winter, the air outside is cool at night, but when a light rain sends up steam from the pool, clouding the planted palms and nearby pasture, the land feels almost tropical.
 In Salto, the nearest city, Uruguay has converted former military housing into the Hotel Horacio Quiroga and burrowed into the hot springs. As at Arapey, the location seems unlikely for a tourist destination, evidence of the hot springs alchemy that has seen tilapia farms materialize in spring-fed ponds and artisanal queso thermal (thermal cheese) factories open in the countryside. There, as at many of the region's hotels, the hot springs water -- pumped from 2,300 feet to 6,500 feet below ground and emerging as hot as 108 degrees -- rains down from wide showerheads. High in iron and calcium, believed to lower blood pressure and relax muscles, it is also poured from glass pitchers and frozen into ice cubes.
 ''When there's an economic problem in the region, Argentines stop coming and that causes a major problem,'' said Monica Lozano, the hot springs specialist for the Uruguayan Ministry of Tourism. ''We're looking for other places to promote these sites.''
 Horacio Quiroga has not exorcized all traces of its institutional past. The outdoor pool overlooks the Salto Grande Dam, source of 70 percent of the country's energy. Guests cannot hear the turbines, but the soundtrack of bubbling water and classical music is interrupted by the slapping of pool noodles against the water's surface and the ''uno, dos, tres'' of a martial exercise instructor. There is less cosseting than at Arapey Thermal; the plastic lawn furniture shakes as guests carve their tenderloin, and the napkins housed in metal dispensers can hardly absorb a teardrop.
 But there are advantages to the casual atmosphere. Barefoot guests roam the corridors robed in the white uniforms that hang in pairs in room closets. And there are no forms to fill out for borrowing a bicycle, so guests who sleep through the morning stroll tour the 540-acre property on a whim, pedaling past neat lines of planted pines and eucalyptus inhabited by a startling variety of brightly colored birds.
 Horses are available for meandering off the pavement toward the woods and the orange grove that encircle the water park and its wave pool and towering slides. Hypnotizing digital displays announce the water temperature in three thermal baths.
 Farther south, the regional government runs the Guaviyu hot springs, keeping prices low enough for backpackers looking to kick back by a dozen indoor and outdoor pools.
 A day at the park costs about a dollar and visitors can rent a heated cabin for as little as $25 a night. The village that has grown around the pool includes a butcher shop that ensures that the grills behind every cabin are always smoldering and that the evening air is perfumed by Uruguay's famous, grass-fed meat.
 ''In the area, there are other hot springs. But this is the safest country in the region,'' Ms. Lozano said. ''We have a reputation for being very calm.''
 IF YOU GO
 The Arapey Thermal Resortand Spa (Termas del Arapey, Salto; 598-76-82005; www.arapeythermal.com.uy) is an hour north of the city. A superior room on a weekend costs $125 a person, including three meals and the merienda -- the traditional late-afternoon snack. 
 The Hotel Horacio Quiroga (Parque del Lago Salto Grande; 598-73-34411; www.hotelhoracioquiroga.com) is about 20 minutes outside downtown Salto. The hotel provides a free shuttle from the bus station. Except during holidays, the weekend rate for a double junior suite, with breakfast, is $172.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Guaviyu, the regional government maintains reasonable prices at the hot springs, making them ideal therapy for the backpacker set.
 Horseback riding at the Arapey spa resort in the Uruguayan west. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HORACIO PAONE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Punta del Este, Uruguay 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); BEACHES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); WATER PARKS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); HOTEL AMENITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); CRUISES (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); TENNIS (71%); SPORTS (71%); HOTEL STAFF (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (68%); OIL EXPLORATION (67%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (66%); AIRPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: RIO DE LA PLATA BANK (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) URUGUAY (97%); ARGENTINA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PARAGUAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



758 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; IN-BOX; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Readers Respond To Language Policy

 BODY:
The New York Times's Web site received nearly 300 responses to an article on the L.P.G.A.'s requiring its foreign-born players to be conversant in English by the end of 2009. This is a sampling of those responses. 
 Membership on the L.P.G.A. Tour is a privilege, not a right, and it is as reasonable for the tour to expect its members to make the effort to learn the relevant language as it is for an employer to require a grasp of the language of the place where the employee will be working. 
 Any law that purports to prevent a member-owned organization taking such a rational step for the mutual benefit of its members is political correctness taken to the level of intolerant ideological bigotry and deserves to be struck down.
 Oliver Chettle
 London
 When I was young, I thought that U.S.A. was one of the most reasonable, thoughtful countries in the world. And now, well, the most unreasonable, unthoughtful, stupid, ridiculous country in the world it is. Oh! Please. Hojun Park
 South Korea
 This is a scandal. One of the greatest attributes of the L.P.G.A. has been its openness to diversity, and this is U.S. nativism at its lowest. I am a longstanding fan of the L.P.G.A. and ashamed of the commissioner, who only speaks her sponsors' language. 
 Cookie
 New York
 While I understand the economic rationale here, it should not trump culture. This is a sport where an athlete's performance should speak for itself, and their culture should simply be respected. I've watched many other sports, including the Olympics, and it does nothing to take away from the entertainment value or more important, the accomplishments of the athlete.Greg
 Canada
 The women are coming to the U.S. to perform. Part of the pro golf tour business model is that you play and socialize with U.S. corporations. If you or I were going to Korea to work in a Korea corporation where you have sponsor-customer contact, we'd have to learn Korean. Also, if any of the golf tours lose their fan- or sponsor-friendly focus, they'll lose everything. JB 
 Cincinnati
 As a woman, a golfer and an American, I am ashamed of the L.P.G.A.'s new rule. Sponsors are free to choose whomever they want to support; fans are even freer. This is pettiness at its worst. It invokes a vision of nothing but the jealousy of foreign women finding success in the world of golf. The L.P.G.A. doesn't have to accept non-Americans; it's a private organization. But if they accept them, they should accept them as they are. Kathy Reilly
 Des Moines
 At first glance, it may seem an odd requirement. But in the end, the L.P.G.A. will be doing the players a favor. If I work/compete in any country, I would be very well served speaking the dominant language. 
 Matt
 New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); GOLF (85%); OLYMPICS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); ATHLETES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



759 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE FOOD CHAIN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Lazy Collective Farms Are a Hot Capitalist Property

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: PODLESNY, Russia 

 BODY:
The fields around this little farming enclave are among the most fertile on earth. But like tens of million of acres of land in this country, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, they literally went to seed.
 Now that may be changing. A decade after capitalism transformed Russian industry, an agricultural revolution is stirring the countryside, shaking up village life and sweeping aside the collective farms that resisted earlier reform efforts and remain the dominant form of agriculture.
 The change is being driven by soaring global food prices (the price of wheat alone rose 77 percent last year) and a new reform allowing foreigners to own agricultural land. Together, they have created a land rush in rural Russia.
 ''Where else do you have such an abundance of land?'' Samir Suleymanov, the World Bank's director for Russia, asked in an interview. 
 As a result, the business of buying and reforming collective farms is suddenly and improbably very profitable, attracting hedge fund managers, Russian oligarchs, Swedish portfolio investors and even a descendant of White Russian emigre nobility. 
 Earlier reformers envisioned the collective farms eventually breaking up into family farms. But the new business model rests on a belief that Russia's long, painful history of collectivization is destined to end in large corporate factory farms.
 These investments are also a gamble in a country accustomed to government control of business. Some officials have hinted at the prospect of a government takeover of the farming industry reminiscent of the Soviet era.
 And Russia's minister of agriculture, Aleksey Gordeyev, speaks often of food in terms of national security. ''Russia is very often perceived throughout the world as a major military power,'' he told a food summit in Rome early in his tenure. ''At the same time, and perhaps above and beyond anything else, Russia is a major agrarian power.''
 Russia occupies an unusual niche in the global food chain. Before the Russian Revolution and the subsequent forced collectivization of farming under Stalin, it was the largest grain exporting nation in the world. 
 Today, roughly 7 percent of the planet's arable land is either owned by the Russian state or by collective farms, but about a sixth of all that agricultural land -- some 35 million hectares -- lies fallow. By comparison, all of Britain has 6 million hectares of cultivatable land. 
 Even excluding the slivers of land contaminated by the Chernobyl disaster or by industrial pollution, Russia also has millions of acres of untouched, pristine land that could be used for agriculture.
 Yields in Russia, however, are tiny. The average Russian grain yield is 1.85 tons a hectare -- compared with 6.36 tons a hectare in the United States and 3.04 in Canada. (A hectare is about two and a half acres.)
 If Russia could regain its old title of leading grain exporter, it would significantly relieve strained world markets and reduce prices, Mr. Suleymanov said. It could also reduce malnutrition and starvation.
 What is more, a significant expansion of farming capacity could add to Russia's heft as a world power, much as its prowess in oil and natural gas aided its resurgence in recent years.
 ''The great story of this land is how big it is,'' said Kingsmill Bond, chief analyst at the Troika Dialog brokerage in Moscow. Troika is closely watching the transformation of the Russian countryside into an investment opportunity. ''You can't buy anything like it anywhere else in the world,'' he said.
 Analysts say the new companies dedicated to breaking up and reforming collective farms hope to bring huge tracts of land into production -- tracts that can take advantage of economies of scale. 
 Financiers See Potential
 The last attempt at decollectivization, under the government of President Boris Yeltsin, failed in part because collective farms devolved into small holdings. Those who made the leap to become private farmers failed. The rest remained in the collective farms. 
 Some trade and agriculture experts say there is still a danger that a country like today's Russia, which jealously guards its natural resources, could one day renationalize farms or form a cartel that dictates to landowners.
 Clearly, that fear is not foremost in investors' minds. Land prices have roughly doubled in the last two years, according to Troika. The average price a hectare was $570 in 2006 and is now $1,000, Mr. Bond said. 
 One of the first investors to see value in the Russian countryside was Michel Orloff, a former director of the Carlyle Group's Moscow office and the scion of a White Russian noble family. He said a visit to Argentina in 2004 inspired him. He saw large landowners making profits without government subsidies, and envisioned a similar model for Russia that would hark back to the noble estates of his family history, only lubricated by modern finance. 
 ''In Moscow, they said I was crazy for going into agriculture,'' Mr. Orloff recalled on a visit to one of his factory farms outside Podlesny -- formerly the Sunrise of Communism collective farm. ''Now, they all envy us.''
 His model rested on the idea that the collective farms should not be broken up into smaller plots but consolidated into larger factory farms, able to achieve economies of scale. (He calls the new corporate farms ''clusters.'') Using John Deere tractors and Western-trained agronomists, he has nearly doubled yields. 
 Last year, Black Earth Farming fields yielded 3.3 tons of wheat a hectare, and the company says it is on track this year to reap 4.4 tons a hectare. 
 To be sure, this is Russia. Though many investors are piling in, their investments remain small relative to the size of the huge agricultural sector. Black Earth, Razgulai and Cherkizovo are large public companies involved in buying and reforming collective farms. 
 (Many Russian oligarchs and regional elites have bought land, too, but their holdings are not generally public.) While Westerners have invested in the companies, the businesses are all local, requiring a Russian connection, as most Russian commodity investment does.
 That requirement, as well as the possibility that Russia could become a bigger supplier of food, gives pause to some Europeans. They are concerned about Russia's new assertiveness diplomatically and militarily. 
 Provincial Attitudes
 Even before the recent discord between Russia and the West, the obstacles to tapping Russia's vast farmland were substantial. 
 The rural population has declined precipitously as young people fled to the cities. The title to land, after the failed decollectivization of the Yeltsin era, is often unclear. Rural Russians' work ethic has been shaped by decades on collectivized farms that offered little reward for individual effort. 
 ''We see an increasing number of entrepreneurs coming to us with business plans trying to convert this land,'' Mr. Bond said. ''Some will be successful, but most will not be able to do it.''
 Some investors have resorted to hiring psychologists to untangle the village culture and determine how best to instill a work ethic. The best way to motivate the Russian farmer, according to one investor, is not higher salaries for individuals, which tend to create resentment, but rewards emphasizing the team nature of the work, like group bonuses. 
 Outside this village of log homes with decorative wooden trim, with piles of birch firewood in the yard, and where investors have bought several surrounding collective farms, a drunken man slept on a pile of sawdust one recent afternoon. A cow meandered nearby munching grass.
 Specter of State Control
 This latest headlong wave of privatization has gone too far and too fast for some in government here. Officials, as is often the case these days, have floated the idea of forming a state monopoly. They would create a Soviet-style grain trading company out of an existing regulatory agency, a notion that has alarmed agricultural experts, though the seriousness of the idea is unclear. 
 Such a monopoly could control domestic grain prices by limiting exports, benefiting low-income consumers but discouraging investment in agriculture.
 That is not stopping entrepreneurs -- yet. Mr. Orloff's model is spreading quickly. By this year, about 14 percent of Russia's agricultural land had undergone this process of greater consolidation, according to an analysis by Vedemosti, the business newspaper. 
 ''In 10 or 15 years, Russia will be the leading force in world agriculture, just because of its mass,'' Mr. Orloff said. 
 That is if the land rush does not bring muscular government intervention from Moscow or set off rural resentments here. 
 For instance, each member of the Sunrise of Communism collective farm was offered about $100 a hectare. Three years later, the land is worth about $1,100 a hectare, based on Black Earth Farming's stock market value. 
 Mr. Orloff said the collective farmers did not own title to the land, and that the value of management expertise and capital outlays were included in the valuation of his company. 
 Still, Vasili I. Kapechnikov, who sold his shares to Mr. Orloff, considers himself to have been on the losing side of the transaction. Interviewed outside the village store, he explained what he did with the money he received for his land: ''I bought a new pair of pants.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AMBER WAVES: Russia was once the largest grain-exporting nation in the world. Rising global food prices and reforms affecting land ownership have helped to stimulate production anew.
 THE FOOD BUSINESS: Michel Orloff, right, was one of the first investors in large corporate farms in Russia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); FOOD PRICES (75%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (75%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TAKEOVERS (72%); FACTORY FARMS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



760 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ST. PAUL JOURNAL; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Shared Convention Billing Sets Off a Bout of Sibling Rivalry

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
After all the geographic gaffes, the snickers, the years of slights, it was a final affront, some who wandered this downtown grumbled this week. Here, on a screaming red sign plastered to the side of the Xcel Energy Center, the Republicans' convention hall that sits squarely, unambiguously in the city of St. Paul, were these enormous words: Minneapolis-St. Paul.
 These were irksome reminders to some locals who have spent years, even generations, trying to convince the rest of the world that St. Paul really is its own separate, legitimate, worthy (perhaps even superior) city -- despite what its bigger, more confident sibling to the west may whisper to the contrary. 
 ''The convention is in St. Paul, and we should just say that,'' Carol Connolly, St. Paul's poet laureate, who has lived here all of her 73 years, said firmly. ''I think it's dopey to say anything else, just dopey.''
 Preparations for thousands of Republicans to descend by Monday on the Twin Cities for the region's first Republican National Convention since 1892 have also awakened a more common visitor in these parts: the long-held rivalry -- sometimes playful, other times fierce -- between Minneapolis, this state's most populous city, and St. Paul, the No. 2.
 As in any family, there are old forgotten reasons for the competition here. St. Paul settled first, in the 1830s, and two decades later, Minneapolis -- culturally, socially, economically different -- emerged and soon overtook it in size. 
 The reasons for the sparring are complicated, though some here lay them out simply now. Minneapolis is Chablis, Chris Coleman, the St. Paul mayor, says unapologetically, and St. Paul is beer.
 Sure, the Republican convention efforts have been a joint, Twin Cities effort, as convention officials, who sound weary from trying to soothe the psyches of St. Paulites, are quick to note. 
 ''It's been a bit of a challenge,'' said Teresa McFarland, a spokeswoman for the host committee. ''These cities are actually working together very hard.'' 
 Many of those attending the convention will stay at hotels in Minneapolis, and many of the parties and events will take place there, too. Still, St. Paul loyalists point out, the convention center itself sits in St. Paul, so why do so many people -- even, on one recent occasion, Gov. Tim Pawlenty, whose official residence and office are in this half of the Twin Cities -- persist in referring on national television to a convention that is taking place in Minneapolis, 10 miles from here?
 ''It's a little bit of a sting and a little bit of pride,'' said Ruben Rosario, a columnist for the St. Paul Pioneer Press, who has written of the whole stink that his ''grand-but-much-maligned Saintly City'' was being ''punked but good.''
 Even the compromise ''Minneapolis-St. Paul'' is grating to some here, where they really just refer to themselves as The Cities most of the time. Why, St. Paul sticklers protest, can't the words be swapped, given where the convention hall is? 
 ''It should say St. Paul-Minneapolis, but I realize we lost the alphabet war a long time ago,'' said Mr. Coleman, who admits to having a ''mixed marriage.'' (His wife is from Minneapolis.) Over all, the rivalry is mainly friendly, he said, adding that he viewed it the duty of a St. Paul mayor to occasionally ''tweak'' the mayor of Minneapolis, who these days is R. T. Rybak. ''Big brothers never understand what little brothers go through,'' Mr. Coleman said.
 Sometimes, the fights between these towns have grown serious. People here tell of rampant exaggeration and bluffing in the 1890 census, as each side tried to pump up its own population to win the higher count. Others recall a fight in more recent decades over daylight saving time; as they tell it, there was a time, briefly, when one city recognized it and the other did not. 
 Today, Minneapolis (pop. 372,833) has a taller, gleaming downtown with an array of bustling businesses, its history vested from its days as a vibrant flour milling center. The capital, St. Paul (pop. 273,535), looks shorter and older, its blue-collar, manufacturing town roots showing themselves every so often. (Some here call it, lovingly, St. Small; you will probably be asked your mother's maiden name and whose house you bought if you move into a new neighborhood.)
 As St. Paulites tell it, it is not that they feel insecure about their smaller city. Quite the reverse, they said they feel theirs is the truly premier city, and they cannot fathom why everyone does not recognize that.
 Outside a St. Paul coffee shop, Diane Mast, who grew up here, said she, too, had been put off by the ''lumping together'' of Minneapolis and St. Paul in so much convention hoopla. It bothers her, she said. How could it not? Many of her friends have moved to Minneapolis. So have their children and grandchildren. She is not going, she said, no matter how many times they ask. 
 Quietly, Mrs. Mast, 76, offered a confession. Fifty years ago, during her honeymoon in Los Angeles, a manicurist asked her where she was from. She said Minneapolis. 
 ''I guess I wanted to be hip,'' Mrs. Mast said. ''I don't know why I said it. I wish I hadn't.'' She said it never happened again. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The St. Paul half of the Twin Cities, host to the Republican National Convention. The convention hall is in St. Paul, but the signs put Minneapolis first. That's a lot for some St. Paul loyalists to take. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN BLEIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); WRITERS (73%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (72%); POETRY (68%)

COMPANY: XCEL ENERGY INC (58%); NORTHWEST PUBLICATIONS INC (50%); SAINT PAUL PIONEER PRESS (50%)

TICKER: XEL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (92%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



761 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Dr. Doom

 BODY:
Stephen Mihm writes (Aug. 17) that Nouriel Roubini predicted the current economic crisis two years ago. I predicted it 30 years ago in my book ''The Seventh Year'' (Norton, 1979), and a Shell oil engineer, M. King Hubbert, predicted it more than two decades earlier, before Roubini was born. 
 The consequences of peak oil production, which I believe is occurring now, include a constantly rising baseline for oil pricing. All other economic indicators -- inflation, financial-institution meltdowns, housing crises, etc. -- are affected by this cause. Roubini has speculated on mechanisms, but Hubbert originally identified the cause, and I (and many others) elaborated the effects we are now experiencing. Solutions include switching to renewable energy sources and transforming all industrial economies (not just the United States).
 W. JACKSON DAVIS
 Boulder, Colo.
 Nouriel Roubini is correct when he says the United States has ''a subprime financial system, not a subprime mortgage market.'' But he undercuts this key insight when he reverts to standard economic orthodoxy: ''Once you run current-account deficits, you depend on the kindness of strangers.'' 
 The United States has been running overall balance-of-payments deficits since the 1950s, and there haven't been any structural problems of the sort we have now. These are due to what Stephen Mihm correctly calls ''an already gargantuan federal debt,'' soon to be increased by massive bailouts of private banks. Given the complicity of Congress and the elites in creating this situation, Roubini is, if anything, too optimistic about the likely results.
 DAVID CAPLOE
 Singapore

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (67%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (66%)

COMPANY: SHELL OIL CO (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



762 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Big Number, Make Room for the Rest of Us

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
For 75 years, the gross domestic product has been the premier means of measuring America's economic vitality. It is a celebrity among statistics, a giant calculator strutting about adding up every bit of paid activity in the 50 states. The annual sum, the famous $14 trillion economy, marks the United States as the world's most prosperous nation -- measured in cash.
 In the absence of any statistic of comparable cachet, however, the G.D.P. is regularly asked to do more than it was designed to do. It measures wealth just fine, but as a stand-in gauge for the nation's overall well-being, this supernumber is less than perfect. Or, as Robert F. Kennedy put it 40 years ago, the G.D.P. ''measures everything, in short, except that which makes life worthwhile.''
 How else to explain that just when many Americans are not feeling so good at all about their circumstances, the gross domestic product is going up? Just last week, markets surged after the government announced that the G.D.P. had risen at an annual rate of 3.3 percent from April to June. But with all the turmoil in the economy, the product almost certainly would be shrinking if it were not restricted to cash transactions. 
 Mr. Kennedy may have been particularly eloquent about the G.D.P.'s shortcomings but he wasn't alone in his concern. For years now, government analysts have been seeking ways to improve the statistic. Instead of capturing only output, like cars rolling off an assembly line, why not also try to capture -- in an expanded G.D.P. or some parallel indicator -- things like educational attainment or successful child rearing or life expectancy? A half-dozen research groups are also tackling the question. In good times, none of this effort gets much attention, but in times like these, when well-being and the economic indicator are so plainly out of sync, there's plenty of talk of repair.
 ''We may be in the early stages in the United States of recognizing that the gross domestic product is very misleading and something must be done to get better measures of well-being,'' said Amartya Sen, a Nobel laureate in economics at Harvard. Professor Sen and Joseph Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate at Columbia, are co-chairmen of a commission recently appointed by Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, to come up with a better measure for France. While Mr. Sarkozy's goal is to showcase a ''quality of life'' at odds with the country's weak G.D.P., the high-profile effort might yield dividends here as well as abroad. 
 The gross domestic product was invented in the United States during the Depression to measure just how much and how quickly the economy was shrinking and whether President Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal efforts at revival were working. The invention was a success, and other countries gradually adopted the new system. 
 To this day, the G.D.P. accurately calculates the dollar value that is created, for example, when workers put together steel, wires, rubber and upholstery to make an automobile. The car's value, which is the profit as well as the sum of the labor and the parts, is incorporated into the total. Similarly, a dry cleaner adds value when he cleans and presses a pair of pants. That value, which includes the profit to the dry cleaner as well as the cost of cleaning and pressing, is part of the overall calculation -- and so on across tens of thousands of activities and transactions. The federal Bureau of Economic Analysis adds them up four times a year and announces whether the G.D.P. has risen, as it did last week, or fallen, signaling hard times. (Until the early 1990s, the measure was the gross national product, a slightly higher number that includes income from abroad. It is still calculated but with a delay, in part because of the difficulty getting data from overseas.) 
 The gross domestic product grew robustly in the post-World War II years. Family incomes also went up, and a rising G.D.P. came to signal well-being as well as expanding economic activity. But these days, while the value added in making cars goes into the total, same as always, the actual cash can be distributed in stock dividends or profits or multimillion-dollar chief executive pay rather than in raises for workers -- the G.D.P. does not reflect the shift in distribution. 
 And over the last 15 years there has been just such a shift. While the G.D.P. has continued to rise, wages have stagnated, pensions have shrunk or disappeared and income inequality has increased. Other shortcomings have become apparent. The boom in prison construction, for example, has added greatly to the G.D.P., but the damage from the crimes that made the prisons necessary is not subtracted. Neither is environmental damage nor depleted forests, although lumbering shows up in government statistics as value added. So does health care, which is measured by the money spent, not by improvements in people's health. Obesity is on the rise in America, undermining health, but that is not subtracted. 
 ''There are numerous attempts these days to measure happiness and quality of life,'' said Enrico Giovannini, chief statistician at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development who is responsible for recent, well-attended conferences in Europe and the Middle East where the delegates explored measures of well-being that might be incorporated into the G.D.P., or used to supplement it.
 Taking into account these factors could also increase the G.D.P. Incorporate unpaid work, like raising children, and the total goes up. Women caring for their children are investing in future skills and productivity. Assign a dollar value to each hour spent in this unpaid child care -- $10 an hour, to take one of the amounts the Bureau of Economic Analysis is currently considering in trying to value unpaid child care -- and a new line would exist in the G.D.P. accounts for measuring, in cash, a key industry, parenting. 
 ''One reason we don't have mandated maternity leaves is because the work that women do taking care of children is invisible to economists and policymakers,'' said Kristen Lewis, co-director of the recently published American Human Development Project. Hers is one of the half-dozen well-being indexes produced in this country outside government. In each case the index would supplement the G.D.P., not replace it.
 Within the federal government, an annual ''time use'' survey, started in 2003, is emerging as a key source of raw material for an altered G.D.P. The Bureau of Labor Statistics has been asking 14,000 people a year how they spend each hour of a designated day. From such data, time spent with children can be tabulated, given a dollar value and inserted into the gross domestic product.
 ''If you just want to know what is going to happen next in the business cycle, then G.D.P. as it exists today is enough,'' said Katherine Abraham, a former bureau commissioner, now a University of Maryland economist. ''But if you are trying to figure out where we are headed as a society, then this sort of data is a must.'' 
 Out of such data might one day come a G.D.P. more in tune with the way people live. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOON MO KANG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



763 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1888 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Orders The Evacuation Of New Orleans

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER and SHAILA DEWAN; John Schwartz contributed reporting.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
City officials ordered everyone to leave New Orleans beginning Sunday morning -- the first mandatory evacuation since Hurricane Katrina flooded the city three years ago -- as Hurricane Gustav grew into what the city's mayor on Saturday called ''the storm of the century'' and moved toward the Louisiana coast.
 The mayor, C. Ray Nagin, said Hurricane Gustav was larger and more dangerous than Hurricane Katrina, and he pleaded with residents to get out or face flooding and life-threatening winds.
 ''This is the mother of all storms, and I'm not sure we've seen anything like it,'' Mr. Nagin said at an evening news briefing. ''This is the real deal. This is not a test. For everyone thinking they can ride this storm out, I have news for you: that will be one of the biggest mistakes you can make in your life.'' 
 The mayor's warnings were considerably more dramatic than the forecasts issued by the National Hurricane Center, and he may have been exaggerating in order to shock jaded residents into taking prudent steps. But he said storm surges, particularly on the city's West Bank, could be twice as high as the neighborhood's 10-foot levees, and said those people choosing to remain in their homes should have an ax to chop through their roofs when the floodwaters rise.
 The hurricane could arrive on American shores just as the Republican National Convention is scheduled to begin in Minnesota; Senator John McCain of Arizona said the party was considering whether to shorten the gathering or delay it by a few days. Mr. McCain and his choice for vice president, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, plan to visit Mississippi on Sunday to see how preparations for the storm are going, a campaign official said.
 Bush administration officials took pains not to be caught as flatfooted as they were in Hurricane Katrina, announcing that President Bush had called governors in the region to assure them of assistance and that top federal emergency officials were in the region to guide the response.
 Already, hundreds of thousands of residents had begun streaming north from New Orleans and other Gulf Coast areas stretching from the Florida Panhandle to Houston. 
 Most left by car, which caused miles of backups on some highways, but New Orleans officials also began a far more carefully planned evacuation of the city's less mobile residents than took place in 2005. Thousands of city residents began boarding buses and trains ferrying them to shelters in the north.
 ''I don't want to be stuck like I was in Katrina,'' said Janice McElveen, who was waiting for a bus in the Irish Channel section, recalling being stranded on the Interstate 10 bridge for five days in 2005.
 In the Central City section, families, elderly people and the visibly infirm -- those with wheelchairs and canes -- lined the sidewalk along Dryades Street for half a long block, waiting for a bus. ''After going through Katrina, that ain't no joke,'' said Jody Anderson, an unemployed former cashier, who spent seven days in the fetid conditions of the Superdome after that storm. ''It's not worth it, trying to stay.''
 The storm strengthened on Saturday into a Category 4 hurricane with winds of up to 145 miles per hour as it moved over Cuba and into the Gulf of Mexico. 
 Forecasters said the hurricane was most likely to strike the Gulf Coast on Monday. New Orleans could get winds of up to 73 m.p.h. and possibly greater. 
 Forecasters said Hurricane Gustav could become a Category 5 storm, the strongest designation on the scale.
 In a mandatory evacuation, residents are not physically forced to leave, but are subject to arrest outside their houses if a curfew is imposed. Mr. Nagin also warned that anyone who chose to stay would not be able to rely on public agencies for emergency assistance.
 The political impact of the approaching storm was already being felt. Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas announced they would not attend the Republican National Convention and would remain in their states during the storm.
 In Washington, White House officials were considering whether to reschedule Mr. Bush's trip to the convention, where he is set to speak on Monday.
 Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, in an interview taped for ''Fox News Sunday,'' said the convention program might be reduced or suspended for a day or two if the storm turned out to be destructive. 
 New Orleans officials estimated that 30,000 people might need the bus and train service to evacuate. Amtrak trains carried thousands of people to Memphis, and buses with thousands of passengers had left the city by Saturday afternoon for shelters in Alexandria, Shreveport and other northern Louisiana locations. 
 Jackie Clarkson, the president of the City Council, said the evacuation was proceeding more smoothly than any she had seen before. ''We can save everybody this time,'' Ms. Clarkson said.
 The state police on Saturday reported moderately heavy traffic on a principal highway north, Interstate 55, though local news reports indicated that jams had already formed on some roads.
 Dozens of people waited outside for buses at 17 collection points all over New Orleans to take them to the Union Passenger Terminal, the train station downtown. From there they would be taken by bus and train to cities in north Louisiana and to Memphis. They clutched duffle bags, plastic shopping sacks, small children and overstuffed suitcases, vowing to avoid at all costs the still-vivid nightmare of Hurricane Katrina.
 The buses arrived promptly at 8 a.m. -- a sharp contrast to the disorganization of three years ago, when the only plan was to jam thousands of people without cars into the Superdome and let others fend for themselves.
 ''I refuse to go through that again,'' said Roxanne Clayton, a photo technician at Walgreens, who was waiting in the Irish Channel neighborhood with her teenage son and 10-year-old daughter. Ms. Clayton recalled being stuck in her attic for two days during Hurricane Katrina. ''I'd rather play it safe than sorry,'' she said, ''because I know what sorry feels like.''
 A neighbor from the larger houses up Louisiana Avenue brought doughnuts for those patiently waiting, and many said they were simply grateful for the ride out of town.
 Officials made an effort to soothe concerns about looting. Mayor Nagin noted that with 1,500 to 2,000 National Guard troops coming to New Orleans, the city would have twice as much law enforcement protection as it had in the days after Hurricane Katrina. In all, 7,000 members of the Louisiana National Guard were mobilized Friday.
 For residents who were driving out, state officials prepared an elaborate contraflow system, reversing all lanes of several highways so they lead out of southern Louisiana beginning Sunday morning. Officials were staging the plans so that those farthest south could exit first. 
 In St. Bernard Parish, just east of New Orleans, officials ordered a mandatory evacuation beginning at 4 p.m. Saturday, warning residents that curfews would be enforced. The parish was one of the hardest hit in Hurricane Katrina, and many of its residents never returned. Similar orders were given in the parishes of Plaquemines, St. Charles and lower Jefferson, southwest of New Orleans.
 Hurricane Gustav, which has already killed 81 people in the Caribbean, lashed the western tip of Cuba on Saturday, and The Associated Press reported that 300,000 people were being evacuated from the area. Forecasts of its track said it could strike the United States mainland from the Florida Panhandle on the east to the Texas coast, though the center of the track remained the Louisiana coast west of New Orleans. Whatever its exact landing point, storm surges could cause damage throughout the region.
 Mr. Nagin said the storm was now 900 miles wide, compared with 400 miles for Katrina. Even the capital of Baton Rouge, 80 miles inland from New Orleans, could experience hurricane winds of up to 100 m.p.h., he said. 
 But Dennis Feltgen, a spokesman for the National Hurricane Center, said he had no idea what the mayor meant by a 900-mile footprint, saying that hurricane force winds do not extend nearly that far.
 Mr. Feltgen emphasized the uncertainty of forecasted landfalls. ''New Orleans will be impacted, but to what degree we don't know,'' Mr. Feltgen said. If the center of the storm passes more than 60 miles from the city, he added, ''they may not expect hurricane force winds.''
 That New Orleans will most likely be east of the center, on ''the dirty side of the storm,'' means large amounts of rain. In addition, Mr. Feltgen said, there is ''potential for a significant storm surge;
 we don't know how much, or where.''
 A Louisiana State University scientist who has been tracking the storm said the area at greatest risk, under present forecasts, was not New Orleans but the low-population district between Houma and Lafayette on the state's south-central coast. ''It's just like Rita; it's more of a rural storm than an urban storm,'' said Robert Twilley, a professor of oceanography and coastal sciences.
 Experts say that the New Orleans hurricane defenses have been strengthened significantly since the city was devastated by Hurricane Katrina but that the city is still not yet ready to take the punch from a major hurricane.
 ''The system itself is stronger than it was before Katrina,'' said Maj. Timothy J. Kurgan, the chief of the public affairs office for the Army Corps of Engineers in New Orleans. He acknowledged, however, that the defenses that the corps has been designing and putting into place to withstand what is known as 100-year flooding are under construction and are only 20 percent complete. 
 While some $2 billion has been spent so far to patch and upgrade the system, the $13 billion construction program that is designed to bring the city full protection against the kind of flooding that has a 1 percent chance of occurring in any given year is not scheduled to be complete until 2011.
 ''It's a huge undertaking,'' said Major Kurgan, and ''we've made great strides. But we're not there by any stretch of the imagination.''
 In particular, floodgates have been constructed at the end of city drainage canals leading to Lake Pontchartrain, the principal conduits for the fateful surge during Hurricane Katrina. Still, there is no such arrangement on the Industrial Canal, the surge from which destroyed the still-empty Lower Ninth Ward. 
 In terms of preparation for Hurricane Gustav, Major Kurgan said, the corps has workers ready to enter its hardened shelters at the floodgates and to respond quickly and in force once the storm has passed. ''The Corps of Engineers is ready for this storm,'' he said, and will be ''able to address whatever this storm brings to us.''
 Some institutions -- hospitals and nursing homes, where many died during Hurricane Katrina -- were taking no chances, already ferrying patients north of the area on Friday. 
 Michelle Barnes, a French Quarter resident, was nearly in tears, worried that she would not be allowed on the bus with her little dog, Jack, who was resting in a black canvas bag. Evacuees had been instructed to keep their pets in a carrying case, but Ms. Barnes did not have one. ''I just hope,'' Ms. Barnes said, ''because otherwise I won't leave.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Many New Orleans residents lined up Saturday morning for buses to take them out of the path of Hurricane Gustav. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL HABER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
 The Union Passenger Terminal was the main collection point Saturday in New Orleans for people who needed help to evacuate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) MAP: Hurricane Gustav's pattern across the Gulf of Mexico into New Orleans, La. (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); MAYORS (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); WEATHER (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FAMILY (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (57%); RICK PERRY (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



764 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Before Snow Flies, Seeking Help With Heat

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 IT was the last week in August and the sun was hot, but Connecticut's central fuel bank was being deluged with calls from people frantically looking for help to heat their homes.
 A weary Patricia Wrice, executive director of the fuel bank, Operation Fuel, said she understood why people were calling 16 weeks before winter even begins. ''These are folks who are really nervous about what's going to happen to them,'' she said.
 Operation Fuel was created to help families with incomes too high to qualify for federal energy assistance but who still have trouble paying their heating bills. With fuel oil prices heading toward record levels, the number of people in that category is growing. 
 ''For folks who never needed help before, now it's pretty scary,'' said Ms. Wrice, who has been with the fuel bank for 12 years. ''It's just a little crazy here.''
 The trigger for the barrage of calls was legislative approval during a special session here just over a week ago for a plan to use a $75 million state surplus to help low- and middle-income people cope with winter heating costs. Under the expanded programs, a family of four with an annual income up to $94,000 could qualify for state assistance.
 No one is certain how high fuel oil costs will go, how bad the weather will be or how many families will be looking for help to stay warm.
 Jeffrey R. Beckham, spokesman for the State Office of Policy and Management, said the average price of heating oil last winter in Connecticut was $2.57 a gallon. ''We're assuming a figure of $5 a gallon for this winter,'' he said.
 State and federal funds available this winter for low-income Connecticut residents are expected to total about $84 million. State officials estimate that amount should serve 90,600 families -- if fuel oil doesn't top $5 a gallon.
 Nancy Pappas, spokeswoman for the state's largest community energy assistance program, which covers Hartford and Middlesex Counties, said her office had been taking 400 calls a day.
 Ms. Wrice said one legislative estimate puts the number of Connecticut families with income levels below $94,000 at 900,000. However, she said that because of restrictions, many of those families would not qualify for aid under the legislation approved this month.
 ''We're facing a potential tsunami of need this year,'' Martin M. Looney, a New Haven Democrat who is the State Senate majority leader, said by telephone from Denver. Mr. Looney and other Democratic legislative leaders were attending the Democratic National Convention there after wrapping up a protracted debate over an energy aid plan during a special session on Aug. 22 and 23.
 The package approved by the Legislature includes $44.3 million for specific programs and $35 million for a special contingency fund in case emergency heating aid is needed.
 Specific allocations include $8.5 million to the nonprofit Operation Fuel. With previously approved state financing, the fuel bank and its more than 70 local affiliates will have more than $14 million to spend this winter.
 Other money was approved to help public schools and middle-income elderly residents pay heating costs, and to expand financing for energy audits and furnace repair programs.
 The compromise plan was worked out between Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, and leaders of the Legislature's Democratic majority.
 Republican lawmakers charged that the energy package did not go far enough and pushed unsuccessfully to cap a state tax on petroleum products. They contended that the plan was politically motivated and was using up too much of a surplus that might be needed to cope with future state budget problems.
 ''We're reacting to it now because the election is 75 days away,'' said John McKinney, a Fairfield Republican who is the State Senate minority leader. He labeled the $35 million emergency energy reserve ''a slush fund'' and said the state should not be tying up its entire surplus.
 Mrs. Rell and Democratic leaders insisted their actions were a necessary response to a potential crisis.
 ''Governor Rell proposed comprehensive winter heating relief because she knows that unprecedented numbers of Connecticut families will be facing hardship this winter,'' said Christopher Cooper, a Rell spokesman. ''Her proposals were 100 percent about people, not politics.''
 James A. Amann of Milford, speaker of the State House of Representatives, said the $35 million in additional energy aid was almost certain to be needed this winter. He said lawmakers might need another special session before January to allocate that money.
 In better economic times, Connecticut lawmakers bickered for months over how to spend surpluses that occasionally approached $1 billion. Surplus dollars went to build up the state's budget reserve fund; pay off debts to the teacher's retirement funds; finance transportation projects; and increase local school aid.
 At the moment, lawmakers' concerns over winter heating are trumping their worries about a slumping economy that could leave the state with a $150 million budget deficit by next June.
 Ms. Wrice said Operation Fuel was facing a winter like none in its 31-year history, and she had only one prediction:
 ''The craziness is going to continue.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); HEATING OIL PRICES (74%); HEATING OIL (74%); APPROVALS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (60%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



765 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: A Spat in the Family

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
A decade ago, when I started visiting my wife's Scottish-Canadian relatives in the wilderness of northern Canada, her gritty Glaswegian grandmother welcomed the English guest by raising a Scottish flag on a pole above the Peace River, humming ''Loch Lomond'' and whispering under her breath, ''Not to forget Bannockburn,'' the decisive battle in which the Scots drove out the English in 1314.
 In return, I whistled ''God Save the Queen,'' and we smiled. It was a good-natured family squabble that never got out of hand.
 Imagine my dismay then as I gaze from New York at the drama unfolding back home in the British Isles over the last 12 months where suddenly there are signs that the family tiff may finally be spiraling out of control. 
 Last year, on the 300th anniversary of the Act of Union between England and Scotland, Scottish nationalists became the dominant party in Scotland. A month ago they trounced Britain's ruling Labor Party in a formerly Labor-dominated inner-city Glasgow district. Now, they promise to hold a Scotland-wide referendum on independence from England by 2010, and believe they just might win -- so lowering the curtain on a union that is older than the United States.
 ''For the first time, the union is perceived to be in danger,'' said Robert Hazell, professor of government and director of the constitution unit at University College London, though he cautioned that the obstacles to Scottish independence were such that he didn't think it would happen, at least not yet. 
 Polls in Scotland show support for independence running at no more than a third of the population. But newspapers in Britain are printing headlines -- believable or not -- like ''The Union of England and Scotland Is Over,'' while the news media chatter is about who has benefited most from the three-centuries-old marriage and how the assets would be divided when the divorce is complete. 
 Learned academics are writing papers on the lessons of the breakup of Czechoslovakia -- albeit to point out the messiness of such divorces -- but they are troubling nonetheless for a Briton like me who always thought national dissolution happened only in exotic, faraway lands. Suddenly, Britain seems to resemble Belgium, another European nation that could come unglued.
 ''We feel that the union has had its day frankly,'' said David McCann, secretary of the Scottish Independence Convention, a crossparty independence group. ''We have a totally different attitude on lots of things in Scotland.'' 
 Scotland is not Northern Ireland, until lately a more troubled part of the United Kingdom where ancient grudges and hatreds -- British versus Irish, Catholic versus Protestant -- led to bloodshed in recent memory. 
 Yet the Scottish have sought to maintain a strong and independent identity of their own, just like my wife's boisterous grandmother, who quoted the poet Robert Burns and fed me Scottish shortbread. And they still often define themselves in the context of ancient battles fought against England -- Bannockburn, for instance, or the massacre of Glencoe, where the treacherous Campbells joined forces with the English in the 17th century to slaughter a rival clan, the MacDonalds.
 Scotland's self-perception as a subjugated nation intensified during Margaret Thatcher's Conservative Party rule in Britain in the 1980s, which coincided with economic stagnation in many of Scotland's industrial cities. To head off the discontent, Scotland was granted its own Parliament in Edinburgh at the end of the last decade with responsibility for some domestic affairs. This allowed Scotland to go its own way on some issues, like subsidized university tuition, but its main consequence appears to have been to create a regional soapbox and a face for the nationalists -- namely, Alex Salmond, the wily and combative head of the Scottish National Party, now Scotland's First Minister.
 During this month's Olympic Games, Mr. Salmond protested that Scottish athletes had to compete under the British banner (as did the English, Welsh and Northern Irish) and complained that even waving the Scottish flag in Beijing was disallowed (along with others such as the Tibetan flag) by the Chinese authorities. 
 He was supported by perhaps the most famous Scotsman alive, the actor Sean Connery, who said this week, the BBC reported, that, ''Scotland should always be a stand-alone nation at whatever, I believe.'' 
 Just as my wife's grandmother hung her clan's crest -- the Mackenzie's -- on her wall in Canada, the Scottish government is trying to flaunt a stronger identity, naming 2009 as ''Homecoming Scotland'' year to celebrate the 250th anniversary of Burns's birth, with events underlining Scottish achievements such as golf and whisky and ''great Scottish minds and innovations,'' according to the Homecoming Scotland Web site.
 Such brash Scottish agitation has begun to stir proud feelings in English breasts, just as it did in my own when confronted with my relative's patriotic zeal, and novel English flag-waving groups such as Campaign for an English Parliament have been born south of the border.
 Yet for all the rhetorical facing-off, there are many practical obstacles before Scotland splinters from the United Kingdom. The first, said James Mitchell, professor of politics at the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, is the difficulty the nationalists would face in getting legislation for a referendum through the Scottish Parliament, where they are still in a minority. 
 Then there would probably be a tortuous national debate about the terms on which independence would take place -- everything from the sharing of Britain's national debt and the division of North Sea oil, to the possible withdrawal of Britain's nuclear submarines from the Clyde naval base. ''You people snatched all the oil money'' is how my Scottish relatives will start the debate.
 ''It goes right down to the division of cultural artifacts and who keeps the Reynolds portraits in the National Gallery in Edinburgh or the Raeburns in the National Gallery in London,'' Professor Hazell said. ''It would show that for the people of Scotland independence has a cost, and there would be a short-term decline in their standard of living.'' 
 That might dampen public backing for independence, although there is strong support among Scots for increasing the powers of the Scottish Parliament.
 Stuck in the middle of all of this is Gordon Brown, the British prime minister. A Scot himself, who represents a Scottish constituency, he presides over a country that is more than 80 percent English. 
 As Scottish nationalists have begun pushing for independence, he has been keen to emphasize his Britishness over his Scottishness, down to ostentatiously backing the English soccer team and raising the English flag of St. George above 10 Downing Street, his official residence, on St. George's Day, the British press reported.
 It is Mr. Brown's deep unpopularity amid tough economic conditions that has fueled the surge of the Scottish National Party in Scotland, just as much as any lust for independence, most analysts agree. Mr. Brown will face his next electoral test later this autumn in another Scottish district, where a further Labor defeat would be used by the nationalists as one more argument for a referendum; far away in the Canadian north, that may please my wife's Scottish grandmother.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER ARKLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (85%); MARRIAGE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); REFERENDUMS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (58%) SCOTLAND (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ENGLAND (93%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



766 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; PROSPECT PARK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: The Soccer Mamas of Summer

BYLINE: By SAKI KNAFO

 BODY:
IN the summer of 2001, Roberto Sosa, a delivery driver for a sewing machine company, started a soccer organization for Mexican-American children in Red Hook, Brooklyn. 
 Its name, Liga Mexicana de Futbol Infantil, or Mexican Children's Soccer League, was straightforward enough -- except that all the players were boys. Mr. Sosa, 37, had grown up in Puebla, a city in Mexico, where in those days -- the 1980s -- soccer was a guy thing. 
 So it came as something of a surprise to Mr. Sosa when, in May of 2006, a mother with two sons in the league told him that she wanted to play, too. 
 ''I said, 'No problem,' '' Mr. Sosa recalled. 
 That summer, he enrolled more than 200 women in the league. The next year, nearly 300 women joined. Today, the league has 24 women's teams, each with 16 players, making it among the city's most popular soccer associations for women. 
 On Sundays, the players and their families gather on the Parade Ground, an expanse of artificial turf on the eastern end of Prospect Park. 
 For a few hours, the women take the field while their husbands linger on the sideline, looking after the children. Then the women cede the field to the men, and traditional gender roles reassert themselves.
 Ask the women why they suddenly decided to play after so many years of standing on the sidelines, and you'll hear several variations on the same self-evident theme: They were simply tired of watching their husbands and sons have all the fun. 
 There may also have been larger forces at work. As one soccer husband, a waiter from Puebla named Daniel Inclan, explained: In his hometown, many men forbade their wives to do much of anything apart from cleaning, cooking and rearing the children. ''You know machismo?'' he said. 
 In New York, economic necessity forced some men to abandon those attitudes. ''If the women don't work,'' Mr. Inclan said, ''you can't survive.''
 In the beginning, the consensus was that the women were pretty lousy. Many were in their middle to late 30s, well past what would have been their peak athletic years, had they been athletic. In fact, few had been exposed to sports at all. 
 Still, they took the game seriously, practicing together at least once a week. As their skills improved, word of the league spread beyond the Mexican community. A number of non-Mexican players signed up, among them women who had played the sport in college and a number of former players from the national teams of Argentina, Jamaica, Saint Lucia and Trinidad and Tobago. 
 For such women, the appeal of the Mexican league was obvious. Only a few other women's leagues existed in the New York area, and Liga Mexicana's entry fee -- roughly $10 a person, trophies included -- was hard to beat. 
 Some of the players were so talented that in the fall of 2006, Mr. Sosa persuaded the Mexican national women's team to visit Brooklyn for a match against Liga Mexicana's female all-stars. Mexico won, 6-0, but the game wasn't as lopsided as the final score would suggest. In the first half, the home team held Mexico to one goal. As for the trouncing that followed, Mr. Sosa faulted the coach (a man).
 One of the players in that game was Lucille Charles, who had been an erstwhile sweeper for the national team of Trinidad and Tobago. She had faced Mexico before, in 1998. As it turned out, that game was Ms. Charles's last as a professional athlete. To advance, Trinidad and Tobago had to win by two goals; instead, the teams tied, 2-2. 
 On a recent day, Ms. Charles milled about with her teammates on the field in Brooklyn, waiting for the next game to start. 
 ''Now we are old ladies,'' she said. ''But we still try to keep fit.'' She was wearing blue shorts and a red-and-white jersey, and at 42, she still possessed the heroic physique of an elite athlete. 
 Earlier that afternoon, a group of women in dark blue uniforms huddled under a sagging tarp amid boisterous children and baby strollers. It was raining, and on the adjacent field, a soggy children's game was underway. 
 Mr. Inclan, 36, the waiter from Puebla, stood alone at the edge of the field, sipping from a damp bottle of Modelo and reflecting on the rise of women's soccer. For years his wife had come to the park to watch their sons play. Then, last year, she decided that she was through with just watching, and now, he and his sons watch her.
 As he spoke, a small woman in shin guards and cleats hurried over and kissed him quickly on the lips. ''Wish me luck,'' she said in Spanish before racing off for the pitch. 
 Mr. Inclan followed her movements.
 ''I think it's good,'' he said. ''Not too many women used to play football. But right now, I think most women play better than men.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Now we are old ladies,'' says one member of a popular women's soccer league that plays on the Parade Ground in Brooklyn. ''But we still try to keep fit.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BESS GREENBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (92%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (78%); WOMEN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); JAMAICA (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



767 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Thrifty Ways to Upgrade a Building

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
IN the current belt-tightening climate, co-op and condominium owners may understandably feel reluctant to open their hearts and pocketbooks to ambitious building-improvement projects that would rely on special assessments. The landscaped roof deck and children's playroom will simply need to wait alongside the European vacation and the twice-a-week personal trainer.
 Fortunately, however, there are plenty of opportunities for cut-rate quality-of-life enhancements. They range from rewriting outdated rules, to making thrifty but high-impact aesthetic upgrades, to improving service through technology and training, to forging a stronger sense of community. 
 Besides making life more pleasant for residents, many of these budget-friendly measures can also help property values. 
 Retrain the Staff
 Giving employees a refresher course -- a service that may be performed by managing agents as part of their regular duties -- is an excellent example. 
 ''If you're looking to buy in a building, and the staff is curt or not polite or disheveled, that is very important in determining property values,'' said David Kuperberg, the chief executive of Cooper Square Realty Inc., which manages about 200 co-op and condominium buildings, mostly in Manhattan. ''And if you have a surly doorman, it's going to affect your quality of life adversely, because there's nothing better than coming home at night and being greeted by a happy face and, 'Hello, how are you doing Mr. or Ms. So-and-So.' ''
 Mr. Kuperberg's company runs an in-house training center, where doormen, for example, are reminded to help with packages, get taxis for residents, stay awake on the job, replace worn-out uniforms and wear socks that match shoes. 
 ''It's not only training the staff,'' Mr. Kuperberg said, ''it's creating a service culture among the staff as if you were in a five-star hotel.'' 
 Take the Building Online
 Inexpensive technology can amplify the five-star effect. For $13 per apartment per month (or $2,000 all together per year in buildings with fewer than 150 units), an online service called BuildingLink.com enables residents to talk to staff members, property managers and board members online; place work requests and track them; receive e-mail notification of package deliveries and important announcements; and communicate, like an internal Craigslist, with neighbors who might, for instance, know of a good housekeeper.
 Better communication is a useful tool for fostering a sense of community among residents. It is also a frugal one that can be accomplished through printed newsletters dashed out on a word-processing template, or any number of free online solutions, like Google and Yahoo groups, as well as social networking sites like Meetup, Facebook and MeetTheNeighbors.org.
 For about $20 per unit per month, apartment buildings can hire a virtual concierge. ''We're kind of the best friend and the know-it-all for things that take three hours to solve,'' said Michael Fazio, the co-founder of Abigail Michaels Concierge, which serves 48 condominium and rental buildings in Manhattan. ''People call and say, 'I left my laptop in the airport; can you go get it?' or 'I'm going to Hudson County -- where can I go to brunch?' or 'I was at Bloomies and I saw a pair of shoes and I really want them in a size 7.' '' 
 (The top three requests, Mr. Fazio said, involve dinner reservations, pet services and move-in help, like setting up cable and computer systems and finding a stager to opine on where the sofa should go.)
 Remember Curb Appeal
 Other economical improvements have more to do with aesthetics than service.
 ''Looking at the little details of appearance of common areas is critical,'' Mr. Kuperberg said. ''It's not necessarily redecorating, but how clean is the lobby, is the signage professionally done, are the light bulbs all in the same color spectrum, is there a program for polishing the marble floors?'' A fresh coat of paint on the walls of the lobby and laundry room won't break the bank, nor will upgrading washers and dryers.
 Adorning the lobby with fresh flowers (about $75 to $200 a month) adds a gloss of elegance and warmth. Outdoors, a pair of attractively planted urns can do the same. And in the absence of green-thumb residents willing to pitch in, a professional job doesn't cost much. 
 ''We have a lot of high-end buildings where we change the look seasonally,'' said Howard K. Freilich, chief executive of Blondie's Treehouse, a landscape-design company in Manhattan. Four changes of two pots per year -- evergreens in the winter, for example, and lush red tulips mixed with blue pansies in the spring -- cost about $2,000, including changing the pots themselves. 
 For $250 more, Blondie's will landscape a sidewalk tree pit three times a year; for $1,000 to $3,000 they will build a brand new one, including tree. Buildings willing to wait a year or two can also ask the city to do it at no cost, so long as there are no underground gas lines or overhead wires. (Call 311 or go online to nycgovparks.org and click ''Request a Street Tree.'')
 Rethink the Rules
 Just as a building's appearance can benefit from freshening up, so can its rules. Policies about whether to allow pets, garbage disposals and washer-dryers in apartments, for example, may no longer reflect the sentiment of a majority or the latest wisdom on a subject.
 ''Being a little bit more liberal with washer-dryers is becoming a trend,'' said Michael Donuk, the director of operations at the Argo Corporation, a Manhattan-based property management firm. He noted that high-efficiency washers and dryers can significantly diminish stress on a building's plumbing systems. 
 ''Allowing washer-dryers is a huge thing for buyers because there are people who are militant about having them in the apartment, like new mothers,'' said Max Dobens, a vice president at Prudential Douglas Elliman. Permissive pet policies are also highly sought after, Mr. Dobens said.
 Have a Mixer
 Some buildings hold parties once or twice a year. They can range from potluck to inexpensively catered events. And they can focus on subtleties that make a building feel more like a shared enterprise than an assortment of bunkers.
 ''When there are broken windows in a neighborhood, it leads to crime because broken windows are a signal that people don't care, so our board has done a lot to try to pay attention to the little things,'' said Renee Fishman, an associate broker at Halstead Property who lives in a 500-unit postwar co-op near Union Square. ''In the laundry room, instead of leaving the socks that always go missing on the folding tables, we have a little basket with a sign that says 'Lost and Found.' It's something so little and so stupid, but it shows that people care and take pride in their surroundings.''
 Other simple community-building measures in her co-op include installing a recycling bin in the mailroom and a communal bookshelf and reading area (along with a bulletin board and vending machine) in the laundry room. 
 She believes that small touches like these appeal to buyers and residents alike.
 ''When I was buying in the building,'' she said, ''I saw the bookshelf, which some neighbors have taken the time to organize by category, and I thought, there are a community of people who live here and have intellect and care about not throwing out books. And, I've actually found some helpful books.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about relatively inexpensive ways that co-ops and condominiums can improve the quality of life for their residents misstated the cost of an online service, BuildingLink.com, that enables residents to communicate with staff members and with one another. It is $13 per apartment per year, not per month.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY TOM BLOOM) (pg.RE1 and 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (76%); HOTEL STAFF (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (66%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%); CRAIGSLIST INC (51%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



768 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: No One Lives There Anymore

 BODY:
Across the United States, neighborhoods are littered with an estimated 900,000 vacant homes, the result of foreclosures, bank repossessions and abandonment. And with defaults rising nationwide, the number is expected to grow well into next year. 
 Such blight is contagious. Empty houses pose fire and health hazards, attract crime and prolong the housing slump by depressing the value of nearby homes and adding to the nation's already bloated unsold inventory. No one is immune. Even if your neighborhood looks fine -- and you are financially secure -- foreclosures in your metropolitan area mean less property tax revenue and, as the downturn deepens, less state sales tax revenue. 
 If the hardest-hit communities do not get help soon, the damage may be irreparable. Most foreclosed houses would sell eventually, but not in time to halt the decline in the quality of life that is already under way, or the fracturing of the areas' tax base. 
 The federal government is only limping to the rescue. The Department of Housing and Urban Development is expected to release a plan next month for funneling nearly $4 billion to states and cities, mainly to buy and redevelop foreclosed homes. 
 The sum is far too small to have a broad impact. Properly targeted, it could stanch the decline in some of the neediest areas, and ideally, begin to revive them by attracting private investment. Success stories could serve as examples for other communities, when, as is likely, a future Congress has to provide more relief. 
 Success is not assured. The White House opposed the redevelopment effort as a bailout of speculators. It finally dropped its objection, but Congress must guard against delay or any other political games. 
 HUD must avoid the temptation to spread the money far and wide, an approach that would score points with varied constituencies but would fail to target the neediest areas. To make sure the money goes where it is needed most, HUD should share the data it is using to devise the distribution formula. State and local officials must also carefully target the money they receive. 
 Even if government officials perform well, the redevelopment effort could still fail. The law requires that the local governments buy up foreclosed houses at a price that is below the current market value. That could still be a good deal for sellers -- generally lenders or mortgage firms -- since property values are continuing to decline. But if lenders are not willing to take a loss upfront, the sales will not go through and the unspent money will revert to the Treasury. 
 If the mortgage industry is not ready to deal, Congress and state and local officials should assert the public interest, giving homeowners and communities more leeway to counter the industry's stance. Localities could raise the costs for registering empty homes and the charges and fines for maintaining them, increasing the incentive for a quick sale.
 The best outcome would be for government officials and lenders to make deals, soon, that strike a balance between the best possible prices and the highest possible public good. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REPOSSESSION (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SALES TAX (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CITIES (75%); BAILOUTS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



769 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Wooing the South

BYLINE: By CHRIS SUELLENTROP. 
Chris Suellentrop is an editor for the Op-Ed page of The Times. With Tobin Harshaw, he writes The Opinionator, a blog for The New York Times on the Web.

 BODY:
BLUE DIXIE
 Awakening the South's Democratic Majority
 By Bob Moser
 274 pp. Times Books/ Henry Holt & Company. $25
 Among Democrats, the South has long been discussed in terms usually reserved for an old flame. Some members of the party think the region is best forgotten, ignored or even openly vilified -- there are, after all, plenty of other fish in the states. Others think the Democratic Party and Dixie can still be friends, even if the relationship is painful and awkward and neither seems to get much out of pretending to enjoy the other's company. And still others spend their days pining for the one that got away, thinking of new and creative ways to woo her. 
 Bob Moser falls squarely in the camp that thinks the South is just waiting for the Democrats to remind her of all the good times they used to have together before she shacked up with the Other Party. The party of Franklin D. Roosevelt needs to stand on the Mason-Dixon line, hoist a portable stereo over its head and blast the song that brought the two of them together in the first place -- that old-time New Deal religion -- into the South's bedroom window, Moser suggests. In ''Blue Dixie: Awakening the South's Democratic Majority,'' he doesn't succeed in making a persuasive case that this plan would work, but he does achieve a secondary goal: convincing Democrats that the South is a lot more complicated and interesting than they have made it out to be. It just might be a worthy object of their affection. 
 Moser, a political correspondent for The Nation and a native of North Carolina, argues that non-Southern Democrats have created a self-indulgent fable about the old Confederacy, a flattering ''Disneyesque version of political history'' that paints Democrats as ''martyrs for racial justice'' and Southerners as members of retrograde, white-hooded lynch mobs. He sums up this convenient history: ''The party's sad record in national politics, post-L.B.J., has indeed been a cross to bear. But such is the price of righteousness.'' 
 This oft-told tale is, in Moser's view, hooey. The racial politics that helped create the emerging Republican majority in the 1960s and '70s were part of ''a national phenomenon, of course, not strictly a Southern one,'' he writes. In the historian Matthew Lassiter's words, the ''combination of conservative economic policies and moderate racial rhetoric'' offered by Republicans was just as appealing to ''an aerospace engineer in Southern California, a homemaker in Omaha or an accountant in New Jersey'' as it was to a legion of Dixiecrats. Yet while the 1960s South has been permanently memorialized in what Moser calls ''a sepia-toned montage of police dogs and fire hoses and blown-up black girls in Birmingham,'' the white flight and race riots and ''systematic degradation'' of urban blacks in the North in the '60s and '70s have been conveniently forgotten by Democratic mythmakers. And while the South has its share of sins to account for, it also has plenty of redemption stories to share -- from the peaceful integration of Clemson University in South Carolina in 1963 to the fact that today ''more than two-thirds of the nation's black elected officials are Southern.'' 
 Unfortunately, Moser doesn't replace the creation myth of the Republican South with a competing alternative, at least not a believable one. The tale of the solid Democratic South instantly converting into ''an equally solid and enduring Republican South'' upon the signing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is ''the single most destructive myth of contemporary American politics,'' he writes. ''The real story of Southern politics since the 1960s is not the rise to domination of Republicanism but the emergence of genuine two-party competition for the first time in the region's history.'' In making this complaint, Moser sounds a bit like Kevin Kline's character in ''A Fish Called Wanda'': ''We didn't lose Vietnam. It was a tie!'' 
 Moser's explanation for why the Democrats lost the South is just as tidy and convenient as the one he criticizes. The party abandoned the South's true faith of economic populism for a triangulating centrism, he says. Moser never defines what his preferred, populist agenda would look like, beyond listing familiar Democratic issues (not policies): ''health care, schools, subprime mortgages, Social Security, rural jobs and infrastructure, college tuition, suburban sprawl and the soaring cost of living.'' And after a while, it is clear that what Moser sees as moderation when it comes from a national Democrat becomes bold populism when it is offered by a local pol in a Southern statehouse. 
 The Clinton administration's fiscal conservatism, Moser writes, demonstrated how New Democrats are merely ''free-trading welfare reformers'' with ''no ideological underpinning'' who engage in ''middle-of-the-roadism''; they presided over ''a 'prosperous' decade of widening income inequality'' and ''put the spotlight on fiscal health for America, not Americans.'' But when rural liberals in North Carolina put up a Burma Shave-styleseries of signs advocating balanced budgets, Moser approvingly tells the story as an indication that the Democratic Party, as one of the locals puts it, ''finally stands for something.'' And while a few Northern and Western readers may be surprised by some of Moser's tales of racial progress in the South, they will also probably be shocked by his reports from Mississippi, where even today, in what Moser says are ''a handful of counties,'' black and white members of the Democratic Party refuse to meet in the same room. 
 Over and over, Moser sees the worst in national Democratic consultants and politicians while looking past similar flaws in their regional counterparts down south. At one point, he details how out-of-staters are moving the agenda of the North Carolina statehouse to the left. The evidence? An effort (''narrowly defeated'') ''to ban smoking in restaurants and bars'' and some movement toward ''a death-penalty moratorium and state-funded elections.'' Whatever the merits of these positions, they aren't the sort of bold, class-based appeals to economic populism that Moser thinks the Democratic Party should use to retake the South and build a multiracial progressive movement. 
 But while ''Blue Dixie'' fails as an instruction manual for Barack Obama to exploit in the South, it just might shame some of his fellow Democrats into paying a little more attention to the region with, as Moser points out, the country's highest poverty rate, lowest median income and highest percentage of people without health insurance. ''By viewing the South as hopelessly, stubbornly, unchangeably 'red,' '' Moser writes, ''the superior hearts and brains of non-Southern liberals can rest assured, once again, that American evils are not theirs to confront -- or to overcome.'' Sure, he acknowledges, Dixie started making eyes at the Republicans, but Democrats overreacted to that flirtation. You can't blame a girl for going to the prom with someone else when you never bothered to ask her in the first place.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barack Obama campaigning at Mississippi University for Women in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (63%); HISTORY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); RELIGION (51%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



770 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Government Gets Hooked On Tobacco Tax Billions

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
In HBO's series ''The Wire,'' the charismatic thug Omar Little took a bullet to the brain while buying a pack of Newport cigarettes. 
 If Mr. Little had completed the transaction before falling dead to the grungy floor of a corner grocery, he would have paid 39 cents in federal taxes and a Maryland state tax of $2 per pack.
 And those taxes are one reason a ban on menthol cigarettes is unlikely. 
 Mr. Little's brand, Newport, is the leading menthol brand and the cigarette of choice among many African-Americans. Black antismoking advocates have called for a ban on menthol-flavor cigarettes, citing research suggesting that menthol may make it easier to start smoking and harder to quit.
 But in a tobacco regulation bill adopted overwhelmingly in July, the House of Representatives voted to ban every type of cigarette flavoring but menthol. Now proponents are pushing leaders in the Senate to take up the bill next month before lawmakers leave for the November election or risk ending up back at square one when a new Congress takes over in January. 
 The decision to exempt menthol from the flavoring ban may appear illogical until you dissect the economics of cigarettes and their impact on government. A growing reliance by the states and federal government on cigarette taxes -- as well as a popular proposal to increase federal taxes by 61 cents to an even $1 per pack to finance the State Children's Health Insurance Program, S-chip -- provide a sort of insurance policy for the continued survival of menthol cigarettes. 
 The National Conference of State Legislatures reported last month that states were facing combined budget deficits of more than $40 billion in 2009. Raising cigarette taxes is one way some states are trying to make up the shortfall. In 2007, states collected more than $19 billion in cigarette taxes, and Maryland, which doubled its tax to $2 in January was one of 10 states that voted last year to increase those collections. More states are considering cigarette tax increases this year. 
 The federal government, meantime, collects nearly $7 billion annually in cigarette excise taxes and would have raised those taxes, effective this year, but for the presidential veto of the S-chip legislation, which House Democrats have said is near the top of their agenda for next year.
 Omar Little's hometown, Baltimore, does not collect city taxes on cigarettes, but some municipalities do, for a total of up to $600 million a year. (The combined taxes of New York State and New York City are the highest in the country at $4.25 a pack -- $1.50 for the city and $2.75 for the state, including a $1.25 state tax increase that took effect June 3.) 
 But taxes are not the only government revenue from cigarettes. Settlements in the late 1990s to end state lawsuits against tobacco companies mean that the cigarette industry is paying states nearly $250 billion over 25 years. Under the agreement, those payments to states will continue flowing even beyond 25 years as long as the tobacco industry is healthy. But the payments would phase out as cigarette company profits decline and would ultimately disappear if people stop smoking.
 So the government has become a financial stakeholder in smoking, some would argue, even as public health officials warn people about its deadly consequences. Smoking declines as cigarette taxes increase, but a core group of smokers hang on to the habit. 
 The reliance of government coffers on the taxes smokers pay, and on the tobacco settlement money, essentially provides a financial cushion for state governments and could be viewed as a government guarantee for the survival of the tobacco industry. Would politicians shut down an industry that supplies so much money? 
 Now we come to menthol cigarettes, which make up 28 percent of the market. Unless menthol smokers switched to other types of cigarettes, a menthol ban would cut nearly a third of the tax revenues for states and federal governments.
 Nik Modi, an analyst for UBS Securities, is among those who subscribe to the view that cigarette economics mean it is unlikely that menthol would ever be banned, and particularly unlikely when the country is struggling with deficit budgets. 
 Mr. Modi analyzed government revenues from menthol cigarettes in July, just before the House overwhelmingly voted to allow menthol cigarettes. According to Mr. Modi's calculations, federal taxes on menthol cigarettes alone could purchase five B-2 bombers or 22 F-22 Raptor aircraft or pay one year of health insurance for 682,727 Americans. 
 The impact on states, which collect $5.5 billion in taxes from the sale of menthol cigarettes alone, would be even greater. With many states currently broke, menthol provides a revenue stream few would want to give up. 
 Newport, the country's second-biggest-selling cigarette behind Marlboro, also supplies nearly 94 percent of the revenues to one company, Lorillard, based in Greensboro, N.C. 
 In an unpublished letter to The New York Times that the company released this week, Lorillard's chief executive, Martin L. Orlowsky, called criticism of menthol ''simply the latest example of a sophisticated campaign by paternalistic moralists to take away a smoker's choice to smoke menthol cigarettes, or to smoke at all, without regard for the facts or for sound science.'' 
 The scientific questions surrounding menthol could be resolved by a study required by the House bill, added as a concession to African-American health advocates concerned about menthol's effects. 
 Mr. Orlowsky's vehemence on the subject is not surprising. A ban on menthol could deliver a mortal blow to Lorillard, obviously a problem for its investors and employees, but, not quite so obviously, a problem for state governments.
 Lorillard's share of the tobacco settlement payments to states for last year was nearly $894 million.
 All the states are counting on that settlement money for years to come, but losing it would be a particular problem for 17 states that have borrowed against their tobacco settlement money by issuing tobacco securitization bonds.
 If Lorillard suffered, its payments could be interrupted or disappear altogether, and those bonds might be in default. That would be an ending nearly as ignoble as Omar Little's, and a fact that some senators may have in the back of their minds if they vote on the tobacco bill next month. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOAM FRIDMAN)
 CHART: TAXING SMOKES: Cigarette taxes have been a boon to state treasuries. Last year, states collected more than $19 billion from those taxes. (Source: Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SMOKING (77%); EXCISE TAX (77%); BUDGETS (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (69%); VETO (67%); LITIGATION (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); INSURANCE POLICIES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (57%) MARYLAND, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



771 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: The Arrangement

BYLINE: By LORI GOTTLIEB. 
Lori Gottlieb, a commentator for National Public Radio, is the author of ''Stick Figure: A Diary of My Former Self.''

 BODY:
MARRYING ANITA
 A Quest for Love in the New India
 By Anita Jain
 307 pp. Bloomsbury. $24.99
 Like many single women looking for love in New York, the journalist Anita Jain was fed up with the local dating scene. In 2005, Jain, who was then 32, wrote an article for New York magazine -- ''Is Arranged Marriage Really Any Worse Than Craigslist?'' -- in which she wondered whether she should let her Indian relatives find her a husband. 
 It seemed tempting. What marriage-minded woman doesn't dream of never having to walk into a singles bar again? Yet, while few modern Westerners would be willing to outsource their spousal selection (heck, most won't even let their mothers set them up on a coffee date), Jain actually hopped on a plane to Delhi. It was the reverse journey her father had taken more than three decades earlier, when he left his homeland for America in search of better job opportunities. Jain, on the other hand, was going to India for what she hoped would be better dating opportunities. 
 And why not? As her mother would say of her own happy arranged marriage: ''It's not that there isn't love. It's just that it comes after marriage.'' Besides, while an American man might date a woman for years and still not know if he wants to marry her, Jain was eager to meet Indian men with ''their clarity of intent.'' She would give herself one year, which she thought would be ample time in a country where ''it would not be a stretch to say that 'shaadi,' the word for 'marriage' in many Indian languages, is the first word a child in an Indian family understands after mummy and papa.'' 
 She lands instead in the New India, with its thriving club scene, casual hookups and men who tell you to have ''no expectations.'' To her dismay, Jain finds herself back in ''ego deflating'' dating territory: leaving groveling phone messages for an unresponsive boyfriend; having a date cancel at the last minute, only to run into him later on the street with another woman (''It's clear that, as they say, he's just not that into me''); and trolling the Web site shaadi.com for eligible prospects (sadly, Indian men also lie about their age online). But not all tradition is lost. When Jain searches for an apartment, she struggles to find a landlord who will rent to a single woman. 
 Jain admits that in both countries, she might be ''unmarriageable'' -- she's too independent-minded, too opinionated, too picky. But even when she tries to be more flexible, rebranding a ''small unemployed toothless man'' with whom she goes on a pleasant 12-hour date as ''a man who laughs easily and appears to hang on my every word,'' she never hears from him again. For this, she moved to India? 
 It isn't until the final weeks, when her parents visit, that she tries the arranged marriage route. By then, it's apparent that while you can take the girl out of America, you can't take American ideals out of the girl: she still craves a romantic spark. Of course, there's nothing new in the story of a woman seeking a husband. What's new here -- and stunningly so -- is Jain's engaging, intelligent voice, at turns wry (when she catches sight of a former Sikh suitor without his turban, she comments: ''Now that I can actually see him, I realize he's kind of cute'') and provocatively curious (why do her smart, married Indian cousins, who aren't allowed to defecate during the day in their own homes, seem more at peace with their lives than she is?). 
 The result is less a dating memoir than a thoughtful, incisive exploration of the nature of connection. Ultimately, Jain seems to be asking, Is modernization really progress? After all, if with choice comes freedom, then why do so many single women feel imprisoned by their loneliness?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YVETTA FEDOROVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); WRITERS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (62%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (58%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (58%)

TITLE: Marrying Anita (Book)>; Marrying Anita (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



772 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1651 words

HEADLINE: After Fanfare, Hurricane Grants Leave Little Mark

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
It was the largest housing aid program in American history, billed as the essential government tool that would make New Orleans whole after Hurricane Katrina. 
 Yet even though about $3.3 billion of federal taxpayer money has been spent here on the cash grant program known as the Road Home, New Orleans on the third anniversary of the hurricane remains almost as much of a patchwork as it did last year, before most of the money was spent.
 The program has had no effect on most of the houses in New Orleans, and has played only a limited role in bringing back the neighborhoods most flooded in the storm. And as Hurricane Gustav bears down on the city, many residents are worried that the work already accomplished could be set back. 
 Only about 39,000 homeowners in the city received the Road Home grants and stayed in their houses, of about 213,000 houses remaining in the city. Because of bureaucratic bungling and the high hurdles that Louisiana imposed on those applying for the money, thousands of homeowners never applied at all, and many other people moved away and abandoned their homes. 
 And so, on many blocks, a diligently restored house or two will be punctuated by a drearily neglected one, with a waist-high lawn out front and a gutted interior. More than a third of the houses in New Orleans remain unoccupied, according to new estimates by the Greater New Orleans Community Data Center, a figure almost twice as large as in the city with the next-highest rate of unoccupancy, Detroit, with 18 percent. 
 The center has estimated that about 72 percent of the city's population has returned, a clear improvement from the 50 percent who were there immediately after the storm, but a stagnant growth from the last anniversary, before most of the money was disbursed, when 69 percent had returned. The Census Bureau has given a lower estimate, saying that about 54 percent of the prestorm population of 444,000 had returned as of June 2007.
 Over all in Southern Louisiana, the program has spent $6.9 billion of the $9.1 billion authorized by Congress, including about 75,000 grants outside of New Orleans.
 For the underinsured homeowners who received the Road Home grants, which averaged about $59,000, the money was welcome. The houses that received it are easy to spot: new paint, new trim and fresh plantings outside, while inside furniture and walls sparkle like the model homes in a freshly built subdivision.
 But those houses appear to be a minority in the neighborhoods that need improvement the most. The Road Home has not yet made whole areas like Gentilly, the Lower Ninth Ward and New Orleans East. Those who did receive the money expressed earnest gratitude, saying it was crucial to re-establishing their lives.
 ''It was free money,'' said Helen Howard, a retired AT&T worker, who said the grant paid more than the cost of rebuilding her brick home on Pauger Street in Gentilly. ''My fellow Americans gave me the money. You're talking to a grateful American. I have an opportunity to say thank you to my fellow Americans, and I want to.'' 
 Others, however, say the help came too late, long after they had dug deep into their savings to begin work. And a few said they were still waiting for a check, more than a year after applying. 
 Sabrina Thomas, who works in marketing for the Postal Service, said the money came long after she had finished most of the work on her house in Gentilly. 
 ''The walls and everything were finished,'' Ms. Thomas said. ''It really didn't help us that much. If we had waited, we would have been in a trailer for over a year.'' 
 The initial hopes for the program were big: it would be a government-administered self-help program for ruined homeowners that would lead inexorably to the city's renaissance. It is ''our ticket to rebuild, recover and resume our productive place in our nation's economy,'' Kathleen Babineaux Blanco, the governor at the time, said in March 2006 as the program was being started. 
 Congress appropriated much of the money for the program in June 2006. Under its rules, money would be doled out to individual homeowners, based on a house's value before the storm and the extent of the damage, minus insurance payments and other grants already received. Less money was available to those who chose to rebuild elsewhere in Louisiana or leave the state altogether. 
 So certain of success was the governor that in the state's promotional television advertisements it was called ''Gov. Kathleen Blanco's Road Home Program.''
 But a year later, in the spring of 2007, stranded homeowners were in an uproar as the promised money had failed to arrive. 
 ''We'd fax papers; they'd lose them,'' said Virginia Burnett of Gentilly. ''We'd fax them again.'' It took 18 months to get a grant, Ms. Burnett said, a process she described as a ''nightmare.''
 The painfully slow pace of the Road Home's disbursements cost Ms. Blanco her political career, sending her into premature retirement. Democrats, saddled with the discredited plan, ceded the Louisiana governor's mansion to the Republicans in last fall's election.
 Even the severest critics of the Road Home, however, say the money was not wasted. Many neighborhoods would probably be even farther behind without the trickle of checks that only began arriving in earnest in mid-2007, more than a year after the program began.
 ''Without a doubt, this was extremely important for New Orleans, important for its sustenance,'' said Melanie Ehrlich, a founder of a relentlessly critical activist group, the Citizens Road Home Action Team, and herself a Gentilly resident. ''It was essential,'' said Ms. Ehrlich, otherwise unsparing in her strictures on the program's slowness.
 Yet two years on, the ''new life'' Ms. Blanco had promised for New Orleans as a whole is still struggling to establish itself. While the old pace has largely returned to the Uptown and riverside neighborhoods only grazed by the storm, the once-flooded districts edging them are as quiet as a day in the country. 
 In many cases, neighborhoods that were repopulated cannot thank the Road Home for their revival. In one crucial Gentilly district, Gentilly Terrace, which has now recovered roughly 75 percent of its prestorm population, about 60 percent of the people had already returned by January 2007, said a demographer, Greg Rigamer. That was well before the Road Home program had begun to fulfill its mission substantially. 
 The numbers are similar in other once-flooded neighborhoods. In the Read Boulevard West district, in New Orleans East, where perhaps 60 percent of the prestorm population is back, 44 percent had already returned by January 2007. By the same measure, in areas where there has been little population return and not much rebuilding, like the Lower Ninth Ward, there have been few grantees. 
 ''The Road Home really follows the significant return of population,'' said Mr. Rigamer, who is based in New Orleans. ''Road Home has not been a significant factor in the repopulation. People that had economic assets had to respond more quickly than Road Home could respond.''
 And not just economic assets: those who fought to return had an emotional attachment to New Orleans that no amount of sluggish bureaucracy could negate. Mr. Rigamer's assessment is borne out in the statements of the homeowners themselves, in a city with the highest nativity rate, or percentage of the population born there, in the country. 
 ''If it took everything I had, I was coming back,'' said Madeline Leon, whose husband, Clarence Leon, a retired engineering supervisor at the Superdome, had already spent more than $200,000on his house on Pauger Street and said the grant was ''not at all'' a help. 
 It was no surprise that the Leons, and thousands of others, were back in their neighborhoods long before the Road Home check arrived in the mail. The program's many arcane requirements for receiving the money were conceived with the expectation that the program would be heavily defrauded, the result of the state capital's traditional suspicion of New Orleans. 
 In fact, officials say relatively little fraud has occurred. But nonetheless, at the outset, a complicated application process designed to curb it was developed, including the fingerprinting and photographing of applicants, and punctilious checks of ownership documents that in many cases were hard to come by. A critical study by the RAND Corporation identified 12 major stages in the Road Home application, including paperwork, interviews and detailed correspondence; news reports identified more than 60 steps, major and minor, in all. 
 Each one slowed down the disbursements. By December 2007, half of the people who had applied a year earlier still had not received any money, according to the RAND study. 
 The consequences of the delays for families desperate to return were onerous.
 ''It was just so long coming,'' said Louis Rivarde III, who pursued a grant for his elderly parents on Stephen Girard Street in Gentilly. ''It was a big process of having to go through the records. I don't think it was a real caring process.'' 
 Mr. Rivarde said it took 18 months for the $40,000 grant to come through, which he described as a ''little cushion'' for his parents. 
 Some in Gentilly spoke of elderly residents dying in the long interval between application and grant. 
 The neighborhood has a ways to go, the Road Home notwithstanding. On Carnot Street, new wood and paint gleams in Julie Francis's brick-and-siding elongated cottage. It would be hard to guess that it took in six feet of water, or that she had to escape in a boat after Hurricane Katrina. The program was a help, but it was mostly savings, frugality and hard work that brought the Francis family back. 
 ''Everything would be O.K., but the neighbors, we can't find them,'' Ms. Francis said. ''The rats. ... '' she said, her voice trailing off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CITIES (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); CENSUS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



773 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: Love and Dance: Two Obsessions, One Classic Film

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

 BODY:
 SIXTY years ago next week the Powell and Pressburger film ''The Red Shoes'' opened to admiring reviews in its native Britain without causing any immediate box office sensation. Nobody guessed that it would become one of the highest-earning British movies of all time. Why would they? This is a film about ballet as obsession, and it ends not in its heroine's glory but in her death.
 It often looks as though it will turn into something much more conventional. Later ballet films and many ballet novels have told their versions of the standard story of a woman's choice: career success or married love. In ''The Turning Point'' (the hit ballet movie of 1977) Anne Bancroft and Shirley MacLaine represent those two choices, 20 years after they've made them. This polarity was the stuff of so many women's movies of the 1930s and '40s, just now shifted to ballet: Bancroft is the famous ballerina, Ms. MacLaine the fulfilled wife and mother. And the film's cliches only begin there. 
 The same choice permeates ''The Red Shoes,'' but it is presented to the aspiring ballerina Victoria Page (Moira Shearer) at a melodramatically high pitch. Within the film's first hour Lermontov (Anton Wallbrook), the boss of what is evidently the world's greatest international ballet company, has snarlingly announced: ''You cannot have it both ways. The dancer who relies on the doubtful comforts of human love will never be a great dancer. Never!'' Victoria, or Vicky, in full makeup and about to go on stage in the corps de ballet of ''Giselle,'' hears his words. Indeed they seem aimed at her ears. 
 Lermontov, the embodiment of the possessive impresario, was based on Serge Diaghilev, who had fired his two greatest male stars, Vaslav Nijinsky (in 1913) and Leonide Massine (in 1921), because they had been his lovers but switched tracks to marry women without his consent. The relationship Lermontov has with his dancers also anticipates those that George Balanchine would have with Suzanne Farrell and her husband, Paul Mejia. The complications of that triangle reached their climax in 1969, when the two dancers, amid intense pressure about his casting decisions, suddenly quit New York City Ballet. 
 Only when ''The Red Shoes'' reached America did it take off, converting unnumbered thousands of girls to ballet. It had a direct effect on the colossal success, in 1949, of the first American tour of the Sadler's Wells Ballet, the British ballet company that included the film's heroine, the red-headed Shearer, and one of its dancer-choreographers, the intensely theatrical Robert Helpmann. The success of the Sadler's Wells Ballet -- in which Margot Fonteyn enjoyed a triumph above and beyond those of Shearer and Helpmann, and which went on to make extensive tours of North America, at least once every two years until 1976 -- helped the popularity of other companies. Balanchine's young New York City Ballet in particular profited. Ballet, thanks in large part to ''The Red Shoes,'' snowballed. 
 One of those girls whom ''The Red Shoes'' converted to ballet was the 9-year-old Lynn Springbett, growing up in Vancouver. She became Lynn Seymour, the supreme dramatic ballerina of the last half of the 20th century and the most remarkably original dancer in the history of the Royal Ballet (as the Sadler's Wells Ballet became in 1956). In her autobiography Ms. Seymour called the movie ''one of the revelatory experiences of my childhood.'' Yet you look at the movie, and you marvel that these girls wanted to devote themselves to such an art. 
 The film's story keeps turning and turning the screw. Vicky becomes Lermontov's latest star in the new ballet of ''The Red Shoes'' only to discover love offstage with its composer, Julian Craster (Marius Goring). Like Nijinsky, Massine and Ms. Farrell, Vicky marries Craster against Lermontov's wish and finds herself unemployed. Later she returns to Lermontov's ballet company without telling Craster. Finally, when both Lermontov and Craster are threatening to withhold her twin needs -- dance and love -- the red ballet slippers take matters into their own demonic, death-dealing grip. 
 They propel her out of her dressing room, out of the Monte Carlo opera house where she is about to dance in (of course) ''The Red Shoes,'' into a leap off a balcony (sheer ''Tosca'') and into the path of an oncoming train (sheer ''Anna Karenina''). The film begins and ends with the image of a flame (stardom, life's brief candle) poised above the red shoes. It is those point shoes that bring the flame's greatest brightness and its final extinction. 
 Melodrama! Kitsch! Ham! Entirely undistinguished choreography! Add that its ''Red Shoes'' ballet could never be danced onstage. (Its dissolving scene changes are sheer cinema, and the ballerina role is too nonstop for any dancer's stamina.) 
 Even so, ''The Red Shoes'' remains a classic. Hans Christian Andersen, who wrote the original story, was the son of a shoemaker, and his own dreams of becoming a dancer were disappointed. Shoes and feet recur, often painfully, in his stories, and never more cruelly than here. The direction also brings out dark pressures that feel more like the dark force of E. T. A. Hoffmann, the great storyteller who had powerfully influenced Andersen in the first place. Lermontov: ''Why do you want to dance?'' Vicky: ''Why do you want to live?'' Lermontov: ''I don't know, exactly, but I must.'' Vicky: ''That's my answer too.'' 
 Dance isn't just Vicky's vocation; it's her destiny. The real force of ''The Red Shoes'' lies in the tension between impresario and ballerina. Wallbrook plays Lermontov not quite realistically; the story's feverish melodrama comes from him, and he seems at once absurd and hypnotic. As Vicky, Shearer is compelling in the opposite way, for her lack of exaggeration. Her dancing glows; her manner is demure. In consequence she seems more real, more like us, than any other character. 
 My own favorite episode, told with wonderful expansiveness by the directors, Emeric Pressburger and Michael Powell with scarcely a word spoken for two and a half minutes (and no dancing), is when we feel destiny at its most seductively mysterious. We're in Monte Carlo. Lermontov has sent Vicky an invitation to meet him in the evening. 
 In gala haute couture she is driven in his open-top car high above the Mediterranean coast. The music builds to a climax. The chauffeur deposits her at a half-closed palace gate, behind which a brick staircase is covered in weeds. It's as if she had arrived at Sleeping Beauty's castle. 
 ''Montez, mademoiselle,'' the chauffeur says, and he leaves her there. Suddenly it's near silence. Then, as she starts to climb the staircase, her cloak billowing behind her, we hear, inexplicably, a distant soprano voice in sirenlike song. As Vicky reaches the top and approaches the house, we see the sea. 
 The whole scene is the most mythic part of the film. Vicky seems to be moving into fairy tale, legend, out of time. Where is her journey leading? What's funny -- and it is one of the many examples of how ''The Red Shoes'' manages to transcend its own melodramatic and kitschy nature -- is that what awaits her inside the house are men at work in their shirt sleeves. Lermontov offers her the central role of the new ballet he is preparing with full sense of its importance, but he and his colleagues are men at work, and they soon allow her to depart. 
 Throughout ''The Red Shoes'' romantic fantasy rubs shoulders with the daily grind, yoked together by ballet. Though Lermontov was not a real-life person, the film shows us places and people who were already part of ballet history: the Royal Opera House amid the old Covent Garden fruit-and-vegetable market; Marie Rambert zealously watching a ''Swan Lake'' performance in the little Mercury Theater; the opera houses of Paris and Monte Carlo; and Massine dancing his original role in ''La Boutique Fantasque,'' which he had choreographed for Diaghilev almost 30 years before. These were living legends; ''The Red Shoes'' enshrines them. 
 The film pays fetishistic attention to all of ballet's detailed contrivance: the elaborate makeup, the constant audience-consciousness, the endless attention to minutiae of musical timing and technical articulation. Brilliantly it closes in on one particular feature of ballet technique: the way dancers ''spot'' in turns, fixing their eyes on one focal point while turning so that their head is the last part of the body to turn but the first to arrive. When Vicky dances the Swan Queen at the tiny Mercury Theater in London, she finds that -- by chance or fate -- she is spotting on Lermontov himself. She had not known he was present. He is sizing up her star potential. 
 The camera here becomes Vicky: spotting, turning, spotting. What it shows is what she sees: Lermontov (staring fixedly back), whirl, Lermontov. 
 These images turn ''The Red Shoes'' into what we might call a study of the psychopathology of ballet. Physical fixations and psychological obsessions meet as one. Ms. Seymour recounts in her autobiography that, when she saw it, ''the ballet became a state of heart.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with the continuation of an article about the film ''The Red Shoes'' reversed the identities of two dancers shown with Moira Shearer, the central ballerina. Leonide Massine is at the left of her and Robert Helpmann is at the right. In a smaller photograph on the right, Ms. Shearer is pictured with Robert Helpmann, not Mr. Massine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The romance of dance: Moira Shearer in ''The Red Shoes'' (1948). (PHOTOGRAPH BY ITV/GRANADA INTERNATIONAL) (pg.AR1)
Scenes from ''The Red Shoes'': above, the central ballerina, Moira Shearer, with Leonide Massine
top from left, Robert Helpmann, Shearer and Massine
 and below them, from left, Marius Goring, Shearer and, as the ballet impresario, Anton Wallbrook. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE EVERETT COLLECTION) (pg.AR22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (93%); FILM (92%); DANCE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); DANCERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); CHOREOGRAPHY (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%)

TITLE: Red Shoes, The (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



774 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1676 words

HEADLINE: In Glimpses, Private Soul Contemplates Public Legacy

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Dick Cheney is not a man given to revealing his inner thoughts. But on the cool, clear evening in April when Mr. Cheney, the 46th vice president of the United States, presided over a literary salon at his residence on the grounds of the Naval Observatory here, he seemed in a reflective mood.
 The featured author was Ian W. Toll, whose book, ''Six Frigates,'' chronicles the founding of the Navy. A collection of Washington luminaries, including former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, dined on salmon with pesto; the Sea Chanters, a Navy chorus, performed after dessert. As the evening wound down, the vice president offered a flash of introspection in quiet conversation with his guest of honor.
 ''He said that, when he was defense secretary, he felt he was presiding over a 'huge grinding machine that was here before me and will be here after I'm gone,' '' said Mr. Toll, who was so struck by Mr. Cheney's remark that he wrote it down. ''There was almost something wistful about it, a sense that even in this day and age, no one, not even someone who's had a career like that of Vice President Cheney, can really hope to fundamentally reshape our institutions.'' 
 Mr. Cheney has, of course, fundamentally reshaped at least one American institution: the vice presidency. Fueled by a belief in a strong presidency and American hegemony, and with the help of a president, George W. Bush, who gave him an extraordinarily free hand, he has stretched the limits of the job in ways his predecessors could not have imagined. 
 Even in the twilight of his tenure, Mr. Cheney plays the heavy. On Tuesday, a day after addressing Republicans at their convention in Minneapolis-St. Paul, he will confront Moscow head-on with a trip to threatened former Soviet republics.
 But on Jan. 20, 2009, after a career in Washington that has spanned four decades, the 67-year-old vice president will have a new job description: retired. As Mr. Cheney prepares to make the transition to private citizen, a portrait is emerging of a man who is unapologetic, even defiant, but also thinking about his legacy and perhaps confronting the limits of his own power.
 Historians will debate Mr. Cheney for decades. Critics say he has set a dangerous precedent; former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, a Democrat, said the Cheney model posed ''disturbing risks.'' Indeed, Mr. Cheney loomed large over Senators Barack Obama and John McCain as they picked their running mates. 
 ''If someone said that your vice president is like Dick Cheney, you've got a Dick Cheney model in place, I don't know if that's something you would want or not,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican who is a close ally of Mr. McCain. The McCain model will be ''more traditional,'' Mr. Graham said, adding, ''there will be no doubt nobody else is pulling the strings.''
 Now Mr. Cheney may seek the last word. 
 After years of insisting he would not write a book, the vice president is entertaining the notion, at the urging of his older daughter, Liz, who said she had been ''pretty aggressively pushing the idea.'' With her father's blessing, Liz Cheney has been indexing his pre-vice presidential papers, which are in libraries around the country, and drafting timetables and outlines for his review.
 Those close to Mr. Cheney said that if he did write a book, it would be with history in mind, hardly a tell-all. As a onetime doctoral candidate in political science (he never finished his dissertation) who went on to become a White House chief of staff, a Wyoming congressman, a defense secretary and an energy executive before taking his current job, Mr. Cheney is keenly aware that future historians will need his version of events.
 ''Think about the events that he's been around for: Gerald Ford taking over after Nixon resigned, the fall of Saigon, the end of communism, the war on terror,'' said Mr. Cheney's other daughter, Mary. ''Whenever you get my dad to tell stories, you always learn something new.'' 
 Divining the Cheney psyche is always tricky (''You're from Wyoming, you keep it to yourself,'' said Joe Meyer, a high school friend who is now the Wyoming state treasurer). But Mr. Cheney is giving some clues. At a National Press Club luncheon here in June, he looked back on his tenure with an openness that seemed unusual for a man who does so much in secret.
 ''My job as vice president is as an adviser,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''I don't run anything. I'm not -- it's not like being secretary of defense when I had four million people working for me.'' This comes as no surprise to those who have heard him say the Pentagon job was his favorite. He spoke of ''the understandings'' he reached with President Bush, that this would be no ordinary vice presidency.
 ''And he's been absolutely true to his commitment to me,'' Mr. Cheney said, ''which was I'd have an opportunity to be a major participant in the process, to be part of his government, to get involved in whatever issues I wanted to get involved in. 
 ''Sometimes he agrees, sometimes he doesn't,'' Mr. Cheney continued. ''We don't always come to the same conclusion by any means.''
 In recent months, Mr. Cheney's push to expand executive powers was rejected yet again by the Supreme Court. His vision for a free-market economy has been cast aside in favor of government intervention; when Mr. Bush signed housing legislation in the Oval Office, the vice president was not there. Mr. Cheney has taken a hard line against North Korea and Iran, only to be outflanked by advocates of diplomacy.
 If Mr. Cheney is dismayed, he has kept it to himself, though his views are no secret. John R. Bolton, a former ambassador to the United Nations whose voice is often a proxy for Mr. Cheney's, calls American policy toward North Korea and Iran ''a debacle for this administration.'' Even Liz Cheney, a former deputy assistant secretary of state, has been critical, though she said she was not speaking for her father.
 ''He has, for the entire time that he has been vice president, had the view, and continues to have the view, that he gets to make his case very strongly internally, and he does that, and he doesn't always carry the day,'' she said. ''The president decides, and he supports the president.'' 
 Mr. Cheney declined to be interviewed. But those close to him say he approaches retirement with neither reticence nor eagerness, but rather with a Zen-like confidence that even his most controversial moves, like his stance in favor of domestic wiretapping, have been necessary to keep the country safe. 
 ''It's not suffering defeats, it's not nostalgia, it's not urgency to get stuff done, it's not, 'I can't wait to get out of here,' '' said Mary Matalin, a longtime adviser, describing Mr. Cheney's state of mind. ''I hate to use yoga terms, but he's really in the moment.''
 Liberals may caricature the vice president as Darth Vader, but within the Cheney family, the moniker has become a joke. Mr. Cheney's wife, Lynne, gave her young grandson a Darth Vader doll, and Mr. Cheney lightens up audiences by saying that Mrs. Cheney does not mind the nickname: ''She said, 'It humanizes you.' '' 
 But Mr. Cheney remains furious over the conviction of his former chief of staff, I. Lewis Libby Jr., after a trial that depicted the vice president as the orchestrator of a scheme to discredit a critic of the Iraq war. Alan K. Simpson, a former Republican senator from Wyoming, said Mr. Cheney regarded the trial as ''a grievous distortion,'' and would most likely press Mr. Bush to pardon Mr. Libby.
 Mr. Cheney's strength has always derived from his unique access to Mr. Bush, and that has not changed. The two are ''friendly, not buddies,'' as Stephen F. Hayes, the author of a Cheney biography, put it. Mr. Cheney still sits in on Mr. Bush's secure videoconferences with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq, and still lunches privately each Thursday with Mr. Bush. He still presses his case on the national security issues that matter most to him. 
 At a forum on world affairs convened by the American Enterprise Institute in Colorado, this summer, Mr. Cheney took pains to correct a participant about intelligence leading to the Iraq war, said Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona. At an off-the-record gathering of foreign policy experts in Washington in June, Mr. Cheney left little doubt that he would favor using force to put an end to Iran's nuclear ambitions, said one participant.
 Critics and even admirers of Mr. Cheney imagine him using his final days in office to work the levers of power and seal his policies in place, though his aides insist no such effort is under way.
 ''My guess is that he's been able to put things into motion in the executive branch that transcend the next administration,'' said Representative Adam H. Putnam of Florida, chairman the House Republican Conference. 
 As Mr. Cheney's days in office grow fewer, some sense he is more relaxed. He was unusually flip at the press club luncheon, cracking jokes about family ties with Mr. Obama (they are distant cousins) and the state of West Virginia. If Mr. Cheney has specific post-vice presidential plans, he has not shared them, though he and his wife, who already own homes in Wyoming and on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, are building a new primary residence in the Virginia suburb of McLean, to be close to their daughters and grandchildren. 
 More than 30 years ago, as President Gerald Ford's chief of staff, a young Mr. Cheney stood on the tarmac of Andrews Air Force Base with his wife and daughters and watched a presidency end. He is well aware, as his daughter Liz said, that ''it's a very abrupt kind of change.'' Friends say he is ready. 
 ''What he may miss, of course, is the ability to engage in the important issues of the day at the top levels,'' said David Gribbin, a longtime friend and adviser. ''But you know, he's been doing this for 40 years. He has this makeup where when he stops doing something, he can just stop doing it. I think when Dick Cheney's done, he's able to be done.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dick Cheney, at George Washington University Hospital in July, has expanded the limits of the vice presidency in ways his predecessors have not. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAWRENCE JACKSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 ''My job as vice president is as an adviser,'' Mr. Cheney said at a National Press Club luncheon in June. ''I don't run anything.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WRITERS (72%); HISTORY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (59%); US NAVY (57%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



775 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Would Obama's Plan Be Faster, Fairer, Stronger . . .

BYLINE: By ALAN S. BLINDER. 
Alan S. Blinder is a professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. He has advised many Democratic politicians.

 BODY:
CLEARLY, there are major differences between the economic policies of Senators Barack Obama and John McCain. Mr. McCain wants more tax cuts for the rich; Mr. Obama wants tax cuts for the poor and middle class. The two men also disagree on health care, energy and many other topics. 
 Such differences are hardly surprising. Democrats and Republicans have followed different approaches to the economy for as long as there have been Democrats and Republicans. Longer, actually. Remember Hamilton versus Jefferson? 
 Many Americans know that there are characteristic policy differences between the two parties. But few are aware of two important facts about the post-World War II era, both of which are brilliantly delineated in a new book, ''Unequal Democracy,'' by Larry M. Bartels, a professor of political science at Princeton. Understanding them might help voters see what could be at stake, economically speaking, in November.
 I call the first fact the Great Partisan Growth Divide. Simply put, the United States economy has grown faster, on average, under Democratic presidents than under Republicans.
 The stark contrast between the whiz-bang Clinton years and the dreary Bush years is familiar because it is so recent. But while it is extreme, it is not atypical. Data for the whole period from 1948 to 2007, during which Republicans occupied the White House for 34 years and Democrats for 26, show average annual growth of real gross national product of 1.64 percent per capita under Republican presidents versus 2.78 percent under Democrats.
 That 1.14-point difference, if maintained for eight years, would yield 9.33 percent more income per person, which is a lot more than almost anyone can expect from a tax cut.
 Such a large historical gap in economic performance between the two parties is rather surprising, because presidents have limited leverage over the nation's economy. Most economists will tell you that Federal Reserve policy and oil prices, to name just two influences, are far more powerful than fiscal policy. Furthermore, as those mutual fund prospectuses constantly warn us, past results are no guarantee of future performance. But statistical regularities, like facts, are stubborn things. You bet against them at your peril.
 The second big historical fact, which might be called the Great Partisan Inequality Divide, is the focus of Professor Bartels's work.
 It is well known that income inequality in the United States has been on the rise for about 30 years now -- an unsettling development that has finally touched the public consciousness. But Professor Bartels unearths a stunning statistical regularity: Over the entire 60-year period, income inequality trended substantially upward under Republican presidents but slightly downward under Democrats, thus accounting for the widening income gaps over all. And the bad news for America's poor is that Republicans have won five of the seven elections going back to 1980.
 The Great Partisan Inequality Divide is not limited to the poor. To get a more granular look, Professor Bartels studied the postwar history of income gains at five different places in the income distribution.
 The 20th percentile is the income level at which 20 percent of all families have less income and 80 percent have more. It is thus a plausible dividing line between the poor and the nonpoor. Similarly, the 40th percentile is the income level at which 40 percent of the families are poorer and 60 percent are richer. And similarly for the 60th, 80th, and 95th percentiles. The 95th percentile is the best dividing line between the rich and the nonrich that the data permitted Professor Bartels to study. (That dividing line, by the way, is well below the $5 million threshold John McCain has jokingly used for defining the rich. It's closer to $180,000.)
 The accompanying table, which is adapted from the book, tells a remarkably consistent story. It shows that when Democrats were in the White House, lower-income families experienced slightly faster income growth than higher-income families -- which means that incomes were equalizing. In stark contrast, it also shows much faster income growth for the better-off when Republicans were in the White House -- thus widening the gap in income. 
 The table also shows that families at the 95th percentile fared almost as well under Republican presidents as under Democrats (1.90 percent growth per year, versus 2.12 percent), giving them little stake, economically, in election outcomes. But the stakes were enormous for the less well-to-do. Families at the 20th percentile fared much worse under Republicans than under Democrats (0.43 percent versus 2.64 percent). Eight years of growth at an annual rate of 0.43 percent increases a family's income by just 3.5 percent, while eight years of growth at 2.64 percent raises it by 23.2 percent.
 The sources of such large differences make for a slightly complicated story. In the early part of the period -- say, the pre-Reagan years -- the Great Partisan Growth Divide accounted for most of the Great Partisan Inequality divide, because the poor do relatively better in a high-growth economy.
 Beginning with the Reagan presidency, however, growth differences are smaller and tax and transfer policies have played a larger role. We know, for example, that Republicans have typically favored large tax cuts for upper-income groups while Democrats have opposed them. In addition, Democrats have been more willing to raise the minimum wage, and Republicans have been more hostile toward unions.
 The two Great Partisan Divides combine to suggest that, if history is a guide, an Obama victory in November would lead to faster economic growth with less inequality, while a McCain victory would lead to slower economic growth with more inequality. Which part of the Obama menu don't you like? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (BU1) DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN), CHART: Family Income Growth: Annual average for 1948-2005, by income level. Adjusted for inflation (Sources: Census Bureau
 Larry M. Bartels)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); HISTORY (74%); POLITICS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (61%); WORLD WAR II (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Unequal Democracy (Book)>; Unequal Democracy (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



776 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: Obama Outwits the Bloviators

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
STOP the presses! This election isn't about the Clintons after all. It isn't about the Acropolis columns erected at Invesco Field. It isn't about who is Paris Hilton and who is Hanoi Hilton. (Though it may yet be about who is Sarah Palin.) After a weeklong orgy of inane manufactured melodrama labeled ''convention coverage'' on television, Barack Obama descended in classic deus ex machina fashion -- yes, that's Greek too -- to set the record straight. America is in too much trouble, he said, to indulge in ''a big election about small things.''
 As has been universally noted, Obama did what he had to do in his acceptance speech. He scrapped the messianic ''Change We Can Believe In'' for the more concrete policy litany of ''The Change We Need.'' He bared his glinting Chicago pol's teeth to John McCain. Obama's still a skinny guy, but the gladiatorial arena and his eagerness to stand up to bullies (foreign and Republican) made him a plausible Denver Bronco. All week long a media chorus had fretted whether he could pull off a potentially vainglorious stunt before 80,000 screaming fans. Well, yes he can, and so he did. 
 But was this a surprise? Hardly. No major Obama speech -- each breathlessly hyped in advance as do-or-die and as the ''the most important of his career'' -- has been a disaster; most have been triples or home runs, if not grand slams. What is most surprising is how astonished the press still is at each Groundhog Day's replay of the identical outcome. Indeed, the disconnect between the reality of this campaign and how it is perceived and presented by the mainstream media is now a major part of the year's story. The press dysfunction is itself a window into the unstable dynamics of Election 2008.
 At the Democratic convention, as during primary season, almost every oversold plotline was wrong. Those Hillary dead-enders -- played on TV by a fringe posse of women roaming Denver in search of camera time -- would re-enact Chicago 1968. With Hillary's tacit approval, the roll call would devolve into a classic Democratic civil war. Sulky Bill would wreak havoc once center stage. 
 On TV, each of these hot-air balloons was inflated nonstop right up to the moment they were punctured by reality, at which point the assembled bloviators once more expressed shock, shock at the unexpected denouement. They hadn't been so surprised since they discovered that Obama was not too black to get white votes, not too white to win black votes, and not too inexperienced to thwart the inevitable triumph of the incomparably well-organized and well-financed Clinton machine.
 Meanwhile, the candidate known as ''No Drama Obama'' because of his personal cool was stealthily hatching a drama of his own. As the various commentators pronounced the convention flat last week -- too few McCain attacks on opening night, too ''minimalist'' a Hillary endorsement on Tuesday, and so forth -- Obama held his cards to his chest backstage and built slowly, step by step, to his Thursday night climax. The dramatic arc was as meticulously calibrated as every Obama political strategy. 
 His campaign, unlike TV's fantasists, knew the simple truth. The New York Times/CBS News poll conducted on the eve of the convention found that the Democrats were no more divided than the G.O.P: In both parties, 79 percent of voters supported their respective nominees. The simultaneous Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll also found that 79 percent of Democrats support Obama -- which, as Amy Walter of National Journal alone noticed, is slightly higher than either John Kerry and Al Gore fared on that same question (77 percent) in that same poll just before their conventions.
 But empirical evidence can't compete with a favorite golden oldie like the Clinton soap opera. So when Hillary Clinton said a month ago that her delegates needed a ''catharsis,'' surely she had to be laying the groundwork for convention mischief. But it was never in either Clinton's interest to sabotage Obama. Hillary Clinton's Tuesday speech, arguably the best of her career, was as much about her own desire to reconcile with the alienated Obama Democrats she might need someday as it was about releasing her supporters to Obama. The Clintons never do stop thinking about tomorrow.
 The latest good luck for the Democrats is that the McCain campaign was just as bamboozled as the press by the false Hillary narrative. McCain was obviously itching to choose his pal Joe Lieberman as his running mate. A onetime Democrat who breaks with the G.O.P. by supporting abortion rights might have rebooted his lost maverick cred more forcefully than Palin, who is cracking this particular glass ceiling nearly a quarter-century after the Democrats got there first. Lieberman might have even been of some use in roiling the Obama-Hillary-Bill juggernaut that will now storm through South Florida.
 The main reason McCain knuckled under to the religious right by picking Palin is that he actually believes there's a large army of embittered Hillary loyalists who will vote for a hard-line conservative simply because she's a woman. That's what happens when you listen to the TV news echo chamber. Not only is the whole premise ludicrous, but it is every bit as sexist as the crude joke McCain notoriously told about Janet Reno, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton.
 Given the press's track record so far, there's no reason to believe that the bogus scenarios will stop now. The question of why this keeps happening is not easily answered. Ideological bias, unshakeable Clinton addiction and lingering McCain affection may not account for all or even most of it. Journalists are still Americans -- even if much of our audience doubts that -- and in this time of grave uncertainty about our nation's future we may simply be as discombobulated as everyone else. 
 We, too, are made anxious and fearful by hard economic times and the prospect of wrenching change. YouTube, the medium that has transformed our culture and politics, didn't exist four years ago. Four years from now, it's entirely possible that some, even many, of the newspapers and magazines covering this campaign won't exist in their current form, if they exist at all. The Big Three network evening newscasts, and network news divisions as we now know them, may also be extinct by then. 
 It is a telling sign that CBS News didn't invest in the usual sky box for its anchor, Katie Couric, in Denver. It is equally telling that CNN consistently beat ABC and CBS in last week's Nielsen ratings, and NBC as well by week's end. But now that media are being transformed at a speed comparable to the ever-doubling power of microchips, cable's ascendancy could also be as short-lived as, say, the reign of AOL. Andrew Rasiej, the founder of Personal Democracy Forum, which monitors the intersection of politics and technology, points out that when networks judge their success by who got the biggest share of the television audience, ''they are still counting horses while the world has moved on to counting locomotives.'' The Web, in its infinite iterations, is eroding all 20th-century media.
 The Obama campaign has long been on board those digital locomotives. Its ability to tell its story under the radar of the mainstream press in part accounts for why the Obama surge has been so often underestimated. Even now we're uncertain of its size. The extraordinary TV viewership for Obama on Thursday night, larger than the Olympics opening ceremony, this year's Oscars or any ''American Idol'' finale, may only be a count of the horses. The Obama campaign's full reach online -- for viewers as well as fund-raising and organizational networking -- remains unknown. 
 None of this, any more than the success of Obama's acceptance speech, guarantees a Democratic victory. But what it does ensure is that all bets are off when it comes to predicting this race's outcome. Despite our repeated attempts to see this election through the prism of those of recent and not-so-recent memory, it keeps defying the templates. Last week's convention couldn't be turned into a replay of the 1960s no matter how hard the press tried to sell the die-hard Hillary supporters as reincarnations of past rebel factions, from the Dixiecrats to the antiwar left. Far from being a descendant of 1968, the 2008 Democratic gathering was the first in memory that actually kept promptly to its schedule and avoided ludicrous P.C. pandering to every constituency. 
 Nor were we back at Aug. 28, 1963. As a 14-year-old in Washington, I was there on the Mall, taken by my mother, a tireless teacher, with the hope that I might learn something. At a time when the nation's capital, with its large black population, was still a year away from casting its first votes for president, who would have imagined that a black man might someday have a serious chance of being elected president? Not me.
 But even as we stop, take a deep breath and savor this remarkable moment in our history, we cannot linger. This is quite another time. After the catastrophic Bush presidency, the troubles that afflict us on nearly every front almost make you nostalgic for the day when America's gravest problems could still be seen in blacks and whites.
 As Obama said, this is a big election. We will only begin to confront the magnitude of our choice when and if we stop being distracted by small, let alone utterly fictitious, things.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%)

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (58%)

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PARIS HILTON (88%); SARAH PALIN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



777 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: . . . Or Turn Profits Into Pork?

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I ADMIRE Barack Obama. He came from an extremely complex and difficult childhood to become a successful student at Harvard Law School, a lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, a United States senator and now the Democratic nominee for president. He is a fine speaker, and when he talks, he often does so in the nuanced, well-thought-out way that reminds me of my finest law school professors.
 But I am a bit worried that his knowledge of economics may not be as extensive as his legal background. In particular, he's been campaigning with an idea of a second round of economic stimulus to combat the evident slowdown in the economy, to follow President Bush's first round that is now wrapping up. The first round hasn't succeeded, and Senator Obama's ideas aren't very promising, either. 
 In that first round, the government has basically borrowed $80 billion to $100 billion and used it to send out checks to most American taxpayers. The hope was that the extra money in taxpayers' pockets would stimulate consumption.
 As Martin Feldstein, the Harvard economist, has said recently, that hope was largely misplaced. The overwhelming bulk of the money borrowed and distributed went to pay down debts and into saving. Only 10 to 20 percent of the money the Treasury borrowed went to bolster consumer spending, Professor Feldstein said. 
 Of course, the final word on this stimulus package isn't in. Some economists say that the package has helped avoid deeper short-term problems, and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. says we need more time to assess the true impact of the rebate checks. (And the stronger-than-expected G.D.P. numbers for the second quarter may be attributed mostly to the export boom from the weak dollar, which turns out to be powerful medicine indeed.)
 The rebate matter, however, leads us to a major issue: Do we really want to increase federal indebtedness to stimulate consumption, anyway? 
 We already have a national savings rate that approximates zero; that means we spend almost all that we earn. And many of us spend even more than that. If the president's economic stimulus plan had done what he wanted it to do, we would be borrowing to finance current spending, in effect taking out a national second mortgage to buy handbags and glad rags. Would that have been a great thing? 
 It used to be thought that societies should save a good portion of their incomes. It used to be thought that a nation's saving had some relationship to its investment and, therefore, some positive relationship with future economic growth. I am guessing that this notion became antiquated as foreign investment gushed into America. But if this failure to save were to continue, we could become indentured servants to foreigners -- and I am not at all sure when that became a good idea. 
 In any case, the first stimulus plan does not seem to have worked very well. And because we now know that sporadic rebates of limited duration do not generate much consumption stimulus, why offer them? 
 The answer, often given but by no means proved, is that even if they're not perfect, fiscal stimulus plans at least give the economy some sort of a push, and that sometimes this is important. Again, that's the theory. And the fiscal stimulus can come in many forms. 
 Senator Obama appears to be aware of this. He has called for a $50 billion stimulus plan that, he says, would put the money into projects that might have greater immediate social benefits, and increase employment. He would divide the money between a fund to help hard-hit state governments avoid cuts in essential services, and funds to rebuild roads, bridges and other deteriorating parts of the nation's infrastructure as well as to repair schools. He also plans rebate checks to middle- and low-income taxpayers to stimulate the economy. This seems to be dividing the stimulus pie into homeopathic slices, but that's just me.
 Whether this plan would be more effective than Mr. Bush's remains to be seen. But, in practice, there is little more wasteful than pork-barrel public works -- and, in practice, that is what this plan could turn out to be. And such a plan can rarely be put into effect before the countercyclical need for it has passed. Rebuilding bridges and runways, while much needed, takes much longer to put into action than writing a check. 
 There is another problem with Senator Obama's plan. He contemplates getting at least some of the money for this second round of stimulus by imposing a surtax on the oil companies. Why? Because they make big profits, as I have often heard him say on television. He would use some of the new revenue to help hard-pressed families pay their energy bills this winter, a goal with which I sympathize, although putting it into effect on short notice would be tricky.
 But why punish successful oil companies with a surtax at all? After all, when did profits become a dirty word? And why does Senator Obama think oil companies make excessive profits?
 I would argue that over the long term, oil companies' profits relative to sales are not above average for industrial or financial companies. But even if they were, why punish the owners of the oil companies, who are largely pension plans, group or individual, and individual investors? Why should we punish some American firefighters who own oil company stocks more than American firefighters who own drug company stocks or tobacco stocks? Why tax away the savings of some Americans because they happen to own a share in a company that supplies a totally legal, absolutely indispensable product like oil? I don't get that at all.
 In a nutshell, why have a stimulus program that may not -- and probably should not -- stimulate much consumption? And why help pay for it through taxes on a group whose members have done no moral or other wrong and who often are not particularly rich, either (not that it's a moral wrong to be rich)? 
 These are complicated issues, and
 I am not even remotely sure how to solve all of them myself. But some of Senator Obama's plan is just hard to rationalize. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CONSUMPTION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); SAVINGS RATES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); SECOND MORTGAGES (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); SALES REBATES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); HENRY PAULSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



778 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: 'Moonstruck' House Sells, Recalling Fight for Preservation

BYLINE: By J. COURTNEY SULLIVAN

 BODY:
The locals know the four-story Federal-style brownstone at Cranberry and Willow Streets in Brooklyn Heights as the ''Moonstruck'' House because it was the setting for the 1987 movie starring Cher and Nicolas Cage. 
 Neighborhood history buffs know the 1829 home for quite another reason: It was owned for nearly 50 years by Edwards Rullman, who was instrumental in persuading the city to declare Brooklyn Heights the first historic district in New York more than four decades ago. 
 Mr. Rullman and his wife sold the house this month for nearly $4 million, according to Elliott Lokitz, an agent at the Corcoran Group who handled the sale. The reason was a familiar one: their children had long moved away and the house felt too big for just the two of them. 
 ''We got 100 times what we paid for it back in 1961,'' said Mr. Rullman, a retired architect whose wife, Francesca, is a former opera singer. The couple now live on Cape Cod.
 When the Rullmans bought their Brooklyn Heights home, the neighborhood was a grittier version of the now-pristine and upscale enclave filled with impeccably preserved brownstones.
 The area fell into disrepair in the 1940s and '50s. The construction of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway eliminated architectural treasures, including the literary group house whose residents included W. H. Auden and Carson McCullers. Single-family homes were turned into boarding houses for sailors who worked in the nearby Brooklyn Navy Yard. 
 ''By the close of the war, Brooklyn Heights didn't have a very good reputation,'' Mr. Rullman said. ''A lot of us were told that it might not be a safe place to bring our children. But plenty of young families moved in anyway because there was a huge amount of beautiful housing to be had for not much money.''
 As early as 1958, some families began meeting to discuss ways to preserve their neighborhood. Led by a lawyer named Otis Pratt Pearsall, they called themselves the Historic Preservation Committee of the Brooklyn Heights Association. ''No organized preservation had ever been done in New York City before we came along,'' Mr. Pearsall said. 
 The idea of giving preservation legal weight was evolving in the late 1950s. In 1956, the State Legislature passed the Bard Law, which allowed municipalities to designate landmarks and historic districts. But it was not until 1965 that Mayor Robert F. Wagner established the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission. 
 ''The landscape of the city was quickly changing, and whole swaths of neighborhoods were being destroyed, due largely to plans put forth by public works commissioner Robert Moses,'' said Kate Fermoile, the vice president for exhibits and education at the Brooklyn Historical Society. ''One of these plans was the Cadman Plaza urban renewal project, a large-scale civic center that meant the destruction of houses in Brooklyn Heights. In response to the mounting threat, this amazing grass-roots effort began.'' 
 The Historic Preservation Committee's goal was to win legal preservation status for the neighborhood while trying to defend the area from redevelopment. 
 Mr. Rullman became chairman of the committee's Design Advisory Council, which offered free advice to homeowners on proper preservation methods, ranging from historically accurate shades of house paint to the number of panes to put in a window to where to find authentic banisters.
 ''Restoration was not a big field of endeavor among contractors then the way it is today,'' Mr. Rullman said. ''Some of us were architects, some were city planners, and this was a way to keep our finger in the dike before preservation became law.''
 In 1962, the committee drafted a preservation proposal that aimed to protect 1,284 buildings, including 1,078 houses built in the 19th century, with at least 684 of those constructed before the Civil War. The petition was signed by 2,376 Brooklyn Heights residents. 
 Clay Lancaster, a historian and writer who lived in the neighborhood, cataloged antebellum buildings in the Heights to make the case for legal protection as a landmark district. His report was eventually published as a book, ''Old Brooklyn Heights: New York's First Suburb.'' 
 The committee failed to stave off the Cadman Plaza project, and in 1964 the demolitions proceeded. Historic brownstones were destroyed as well as the print shop where Walt Whitman set the type for the first edition of ''Leaves of Grass'' in 1855. (This gave way to a residential housing complex in an area called Whitman's Close.)
 Before the demolition, however, eight committee members -- including Mr. Pearsall; his wife, Nancy; Mr. Clay; and Mr. Rullman -- were able to go through 60 of the buildings.
 ''We rescued mantels, mirrors, doorways, doorknobs -- anything we could remove, we did,'' Mr. Pearsall said. They even dug out a cast iron circular staircase from a 12-foot-wide house on Middagh Street. The pieces recovered were cataloged and sold for modest prices to anyone who promised to use them to restore buildings in Brooklyn Heights. 
 Many of the items remain in the neighborhood: A piece of Greek Revival ironwork ended up on a balcony on Columbia Heights; and a mantel from a house on Clark Street now stands a few doors down, in the parlor of a home Mr. Pearsall owns. As for the staircase, he said, ''Half of it went to a man on Willow Street to be used in his garden, and the other half is still in my basement, awaiting inspiration.''
 Finally, in November 1965, the Landmarks Preservation Commission granted the Brooklyn Heights Historic District protected status. Other neighborhoods like Greenwich Village followed. 
 That same year, Mr. Rullman quit his job at a Manhattan architectural firm to open a small shop devoted to restoration in Brooklyn Heights. All told, he restored more than 50 local buildings, including St. Ann's School. ''They couldn't afford the entire project all at once, so I did two or three floors each year, as funds allowed,'' he said of St. Ann's.
 ''You can walk around Brooklyn Heights today and see it essentially as it was in 1965 and as it was for decades before that,'' Mr. Pearsall said. ''It's a little village in the middle of the city.''
 Mr. Rullman said that moving to Cape Cod made sense for him and his wife, except for one small problem. ''After two weeks away,'' he said, ''I already miss Brooklyn Heights.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The historic Brooklyn Heights home called the ''Moonstruck'' House because it was depicted in the movie still draws sightseers like Roy Sokol, left. Below, the house in 1961. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A view of the house in 1961. In 1965, because of residents' efforts, the neighborhood became the first in the city to be declared a historic district. Cher starred in the 1987 film with Nicolas Cage. (PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, BY ARTHUR BROWER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MGM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); HISTORY (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); NAVIES (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%)

PERSON: CHER (88%); NICOLAS CAGE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: Moonstruck (Movie)>; Moonstruck (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



779 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1826 words

HEADLINE: Campaigns Shift As McCain Choice Alters the Race

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY, JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; David D. Kirkpatrick contributed reporting from Washington, and Patrick Healy from St. Paul.

 BODY:
DENVER -- Senators John McCain and Barack Obama have begun recalibrating their strategies for the presidential campaign -- and reconsidering some of their basic assumptions about which states and voters are in play -- in a contest recast by Mr. McCain's unexpected selection of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate.
 A day after Mr. McCain announced his decision, catching almost everyone but his inner circle by surprise, both sides were trying to gauge the risks and opportunities of having a young, relatively inexperienced, socially conservative woman on the Republican ticket. 
 The Obama campaign and the Democratic Party had prepared advertisements and lines of attack directed at the two men who had been most prominently mentioned as vice-presidential possibilities for Mr. McCain -- former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota -- but had not considered Ms. Palin a likely enough choice to do the same for her. A new advertisement linking President Bush to Mr. McCain was quickly put together, but it contained only a fleeting mention of Ms. Palin. 
 That tentativeness reflected what Mr. Obama's advisers said was their struggle to figure out how to challenge the credentials and the ideology of a woman whose candidacy could be embraced by many women as a historic milestone. Once formally nominated at the Republican convention in Minneapolis-St. Paul this week, Ms. Palin, who was elected governor two years ago, will be the second woman chosen by a major party as a vice-presidential candidate. 
 Mr. Obama's campaign does not plan to go directly after Ms. Palin in the days ahead. Instead, it is planning to increase its attacks on Mr. McCain for his opposition to pay equity legislation and abortion rights -- two issues of paramount concern to many women -- as it tries to head off his effort to use Ms. Palin to draw Democratic and independent women who had supported Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 Mr. McCain's advisers said that rallying wavering women would be one of Ms. Palin's main jobs in the weeks ahead. They said her campaign schedule would take her to areas in swing states like Ohio and Pennsylvania where there were pockets of women who had supported Mrs. Clinton in the primaries.
 At the same time, they suggested, Ms. Palin would also be given the task of appealing to evangelical voters, who have long been unenthusiastic about Mr. McCain. In many ways, the choice of Ms. Palin may prove to have been as much an effort to drive up turnout among the Republican base as it was a move to compete for women.
 ''We had a solid Republican and evangelical base,'' said Charlie Black, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain. ''But now it's going to be very intense.''
 James C. Dobson, the influential conservative Christian leader who said in the primaries that he could never vote for Mr. McCain, said the selection of Ms. Palin had won him over. If he went into the voting booth today, Mr. Dobson told the talk radio host Dennis Prager on Friday, ''I would pull that lever.''
 If Ms. Palin motivates evangelicals to rally behind the Republican ticket as they did for Mr. Bush in 2004, it could prove significant in states like Iowa and Ohio, where Republicans won by slim margins in 2004. It could also have an effect in North Carolina, a solidly Republican state that Mr. Obama is trying to win by appealing to black voters and new residents. 
 Republican leaders in North Carolina, who had been increasingly anxious over Mr. Obama's intensive efforts there, said they were heartened by the selection of Ms. Palin.
 ''Our people are excited,'' said Linda Daves, the chairwoman of the North Carolina Republican Party. ''The social conservatives are one area where she is going to resonate.''
 Mr. McCain's choice of a running mate comes at a pivotal time in the campaign. It follows what even Republicans said was a successful convention here by Mr. Obama. And it comes on the eve of Mr. McCain's convention, with Republicans nervously watching Hurricane Gustav as it heads into the Gulf of Mexico, an unwelcome reminder of how the Bush White House's halting response to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 hurt the president and his party politically.
 Mr. McCain, in an interview taped for ''Fox News Sunday,'' said the convention program might be reduced or suspended for a day or two if the storm turned out to be destructive.
 Aides to Mr. McCain, who has frequently criticized Mr. Bush's slow response to Hurricane Katrina, said Saturday he would go to Mississippi on Sunday for an inspection of storm preparations.
 With both presidential candidates having filled out their tickets -- Mr. Obama traveled Saturday across Ohio with his running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware -- their campaigns have now shifted into high gear.
 Mr. Obama's aides said that they were confident of holding on to all the states Senator John Kerry won against Mr. Bush in 2004 and that they were already well positioned to pick up Iowa and New Mexico, both of which narrowly went to Mr. Bush. The Obama campaign is investing heavily to compete on more challenging terrain for Democrats, including Florida and Virginia.
 But Mr. McCain is focusing heavily on taking two big states away from the Democrats: Michigan and Pennsylvania. Both have blocs of white, working-class voters who are anxious about the economy, a group that has given Mr. Obama difficulty and could be receptive to Ms. Palin's support for gun rights and the portrayal of her as a churchgoing mother of five who shares their values. 
 Mr. Obama intends to campaign throughout the Republican convention, visiting Indiana, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. 
 At a stop on Friday in western Pennsylvania, one of Mr. Obama's biggest applause lines was reprised from his Denver speech, mocking Mr. McCain for pledging to follow Osama bin Laden to the ''gates of hell'' but not, in the view of Democrats, supporting sufficient military force in Afghanistan to capture him.
 Mr. Obama this weekend began running the advertisement invoking Ms. Palin and linking Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush. In the advertisement, as images of Mr. McCain with Ms. Palin and then with Mr. Bush are shown, an announcer says, ''While this may be his running mate, America knows this is John McCain's agenda.'' 
 But the campaign is about to turn to state-specific commercials tailored to local issues, possibly including one on a proposed national relief fund for hurricane insurance that is popular in Florida, said David Plouffe, Mr. Obama's campaign manager.
 Mr. Obama's advisers said that compared with the mountains of data they had gathered on Mr. Pawlenty and Mr. Romney, they had far less information on Ms. Palin. Their dossier consisted of a thin document based mainly on her run for governor and newspaper clips. 
 Aides said the party staff members and allies in Alaska would sort through public documents relating to Ms. Palin's time in the governor's mansion, her two terms as mayor of Wasilla, Alaska, and her two terms as a member of the Wasilla City Council. 
 Democrats were not the only regrouping. Republican officials said that though they had time to collect surface-level material on Ms. Palin and her husband, they had done no examination of the rest of her family.
 Beyond that, Republican organizers said the convention aides in charge of reviewing every speech delivered from the lectern are now on the watch for blunt attacks on Mr. Obama's readiness to lead, and reviewing how much to emphasize what had been the convention theme: ''Not Ready '08.'' They are aware that such criticism in a high-profile setting would provide an opportunity for Democrats to make the same charge against Ms. Palin, who has almost no foreign policy experience and has been governor for just 20 months.
 Several Republican delegates said they too were shocked by the selection of Ms. Palin and, while they wished her well, were deeply concerned that she did not have the experience in foreign policy or national security to be commander in chief.
 ''We've been told for the last few months that experience is what matters most in the next White House,'' said John Scates, a delegate from St. Louis. ''But McCain is picking someone whose experience is little to nothing or, at best, unknown.''
 In the days ahead, Mr. Obama's advisers said they would not just seek to define Ms. Palin as extremely conservative on issues like abortion and raise questions about her credentials as part of a larger effort to challenge Mr. McCain's judgment. They will also argue that Mr. McCain's decision would prove to be a mistake in terms of appealing to women and that it would hurt him in important battlegrounds like the Philadelphia suburbs.
 ''In terms of the classic suburbs, it's a bomb,'' said Marcel L. Groen, the chairman of the Democratic Party of Montgomery County, outside Philadelphia. ''So far as suburban woman go, this will not help McCain at all: they're pro-choice and anti-gun.''
 It is complicated terrain, aides to Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain acknowledged. Any perception that Mr. Obama or his supporters were trying to tear down Ms. Palin could renew anger among supporters of Mrs. Clinton. 
 ''I can't imagine the Obama team will spend their time on Palin; they'll spend their time with their negative ads attacking McCain and Bush,'' said Mandy Grunwald, Mrs. Clinton's chief advertising strategist. ''You always have to be careful not to rally people to her side by attacking too much.''
 Republicans said Ms. Palin would provide an outlet for women angered at what they said was the poor treatment of Mrs. Clinton by the Obama campaign, the Democratic Party leadership and the news media. Nicolle Wallace, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain, said: ''I think the public pretty much accepts the fact that they played pretty dirty and that sexism played a role in the primary.''
 Mr. Obama's campaign has moved on a variety of fronts to increase his appeal to women. Leading women in battleground states are being mobilized, and a disproportionate number of female surrogates are being sent to argue for him on television. They are being asked to focus on abortion rights and pay equity, aides said, and to steer clear of criticizing Ms. Palin as having limited experience in elected politics and government. 
 And Mrs. Clinton is likely to play an even more active role on behalf of Mr. Obama in the fall campaign, her aides said, because of Ms. Palin. She is expected to participate in television appearances, fund-raisers and conference calls with reporters to rebut efforts by the McCain campaign to court her supporters. 
 Mr. Obama's campaign said there were now about 18 states in play, including Alaska. In interviews, campaign officials said they would compete there, despite the fact that the name of its very popular governor will appear on the ballot.
 Mr. McCain's advisers laughed at that. ''We're scared to death about Alaska,'' Mr. Black said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain and Gov. Sarah Palin visited Washington, Pa., a state where Ms. Palin is expected to spend more time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator Barack Obama stopped to buy corn at a farm stand on Saturday in Marengo, Ohio. To his right is Gov. Ted Strickland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) CHART: KEY STATES: States in play in the coming national election(Sources: Polls conducted this month before the Democratic convention from Quinnipiac University (Pa., Ohio, Colo., Fla.), EPIC/MRA (Mich.), Research 2000 (Nev.), Mason-Dixon (N.M.)
 2004 vote from Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (75%); WOMEN (75%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (63%); RELIGION (63%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); SARAH PALIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); TED STRICKLAND (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (89%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (71%) OHIO, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



780 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Free World

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
President Bush dispatched Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to Tbilisi ''to rally the free world in the defense of a free Georgia.'' John McCain used the same phrase to an audience of veterans: young democracies under attack 'should be able to count on the free world for support and solidarity.'' (That last word evoked memories of a Polish labor union's slogan in defiance of Moscow's domination, which augured a breakup of the Soviet Union.) 
 Suddenly the free world -- a phrase described in the Oxford English Dictionary as ''now chiefly historical'' -- was back in the current-events vocabulary. Only last year, Prof. Walter Minot wrote in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that ''the cold war has been over for 15 years. Isn't it about time that journalists stop using a phrase that is outdated, inaccurate, meaningless and politicially deceptive?'' The op-ed piece was headlined ''Dump 'Free World' in Sea of Dated Words.'' 
 It has resurfaced like an angry Moby-Dick, forcing etymologists to ask: When and where did the dormant phrase, now in its roaring comeback, begin? In research for the current edition of my political dictionary, I came across an obscure economics adviser to the Department of Agriculture in Franklin Delano Roosevelt's administration named Mordecai J. B. Ezekiel. In October 1941, two months before the attack on Pearl Harbor, the possible coiner started a publication named Free World, a project of the Free World Association, its headquarters at 55 West 42nd Street in New York. The anti-Nazi monthly featured well-known liberal internationalist byliners like Robert Nathan, former Vice President Henry Wallace, the columnist Dorothy Thompson and perhaps Freda Kirchwey, editor of The Nation. Its slogan was ''For Victory and for World Organization,'' and in 1942 Free World merged with the magazine United Nations World.
 In that era, the free world was made up of ''the Allies'': the United States, Britain and any other government in fact or in exile opposing Nazi tyranny, which could be said to include the Soviet Union after its attack by Hitler's forces. A half-dozen years after World War II, Stalinist, expansionist Russia was no longer in the club; the January 1951 issue of the proceedings of the Academy of Political Science was titled ''The Defense of the Free World'' (against the aggressive Soviet Union) with articles by Gladwyn Jebb and Raymond Dennett. The phrase was favored by President Dwight Eisenhower. Soviet Chairman Nikita Khrushchev derided it in 1959 with, ''The so-called free world constitutes the kingdom of the dollar.'' 
 Then the political world, like all Gaul, was divided into three: the free world, the Communist world and the neutralist third world (from the French tiers monde). That was neat but not quite tidy -- the monarchy of Saudi Arabia, for example, was part of the ''free'' world -- but the bipolar lineup with room in the middle served a rough rhetorical division during the cold war, or as it may soon be called, ''Cold War I.'' (When the comedian Sid Caesar played a uniformed doughboy on Armistice Day in 1918, he jubilantly shouted out the anachronism ''World War I is over!'') 
 With the 1991 collapse of the Communist Soviet Union and the spread of democracy, the two-generation construct of free-third-Communist worlds fell apart. The new free world is made up of not just the Western democracies but also all other countries around the world holding free elections and tolerating persnickety journalists (now including Iraq and Russia's close neighbors). This largely absorbed the third world. The Communist world was reduced to China, North Korea and Cuba, with the euphemism ''authoritarian'' applied to countries like Iran, Zimbabwe, Syria and Myanmar. The East-West divide seemed to give way to the embrace of multipolar. 
 What, then, led to the recent resuscitation of the phrase free world? Answer: the muscle flexing of an oil-and-gas-rich Russia, resentful of its loss of hegemony in East Europe, cracking down on dissidents and press freedom and led by the strongman-for-life Vladimir Putin, whose military foray into Georgia reminded much of the world that imperialism is not dead. In the comeback of free-worldese, these are some of the isms to watch. 
 Revanchism, a 1926 coinage about Germany rooted in the French for ''revenge,'' means ''seeking reprisal or vengeance''; it was long used by Russians against NATO expansion and recently directed at the Kremlin in the McCain mutiny against accommodationists.
 Irredentism, from the Italian irredenta, ''unredeemed,'' popularized in 1914, means ''seeking the recovery of a region ethnically or historically part of one country but now a part of or occupied by another.'' 
 Triumphalism, first applied in 1964 to excessive pride in one's church, more recently used to derogate American leadership, soon to characterize Kremlin arrogance; and Putinism, coined in January 2000 by Richard Gwyn in The Toronto Star to mean ''a state that is strong and yet also is, more or less, democratic.'' It was derogated later that month as the ''surly stagnation'' of ''an uncompetitive, economically weakened Russia'' by a right-wing New York Times op-ed columnist under the headline ''Putinism Looms.'' 
 In this post-post-cold-war era, let us also brace ourselves for a nuanced catharsis (or subtle purgation) featuring the neo- prefix, with neoadventurism, neoczarism and those contrary standbys, neoisolationism and neoimperialism. 
 Although free world is a phrase most often associated with hardline internationalists zealously promoting democracy everywhere, in a speech on April 23, 2007, to the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, Senator Barack Obama applied not just for the presidency but also for its traditionally even grander position: ''for the last six years, the position of leader of the free world has remained open, and it's time to fill that role once more.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (LETTERING BY DIRK BARNETT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); WRITERS (88%); POLITICS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); LIBERALISM (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (56%)

COMPANY: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); JOHN MCCAIN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GEORGIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



781 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: The Audacity of Hype

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
William Safire, a former Times Op-Ed columnist, is the chairman of the Dana Foundation.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 BY choosing the venue of a vast outdoor stadium as John Kennedy did for his ''new frontier'' acceptance, and by speaking on the anniversary of Martin Luther King's ''I have a dream'' address, Barack Obama -- whose claim to fame is an ability to move audiences with his words -- deliberately invited comparison with two of the most memorable speeches of our recent history. 
 What a mistake.
 A speaker must first ask: what is the best setting to make close contact with the person I want to reach? In this day and age, it is not a huge throng wildly cheering on cue. On the contrary, the target is the individual American voter watching a TV or computer screen at home, accustomed to looking over the shoulders of elected representatives, in colorful convention assembled, selecting the party's nominee. 
 Instead, Obama's handlers offered the political version of ''American Idol'' -- the audacity of hype. On the 50-yard line of the football field, at a reported cost of $6 million, they erected a plywood Parthenon, its fake Grecian columns suggesting the White House. At the end, not a traditional balloon drop in a contained hall -- enjoyable hoopla -- but a fireworks display in the heavens over a mass of humanity in a blizzard of confetti, all too like the collectivist fantasy that opened and closed the Beijing Olympics.
 To present what? In a speech aptly titled ''The American Promise,'' Obama promised to ''end this war in Iraq responsibly,'' even as it is already ending responsibly. He promised in a militant phrase not merely to end but to ''finish the fight'' (meaning to win) in Afghanistan. In one catchall sentence, Obama promised to defeat ''terrorism and nuclear proliferation; poverty and genocide; climate change and disease.'' Because the charge that he would raise taxes obviously nettles him, he promised to ''eliminate capital gains taxes for the small businesses'' run by obedient high-tech executives, and to ''cut taxes for 95 percent of all working families.'' 
 In promising to ''end our dependence on oil from the Middle East,'' he stopped pandering for a moment to oppose the majority of Americans urging we increase supply by drilling for oil here: ''Understand that drilling is a stop-gap measure, not a long-term solution.'' That is phrased with wiggle room to let him go along with necessary drilling, provided stockholders in oil companies are punished.
 Belatedly, Obama did what he could to lower expectations for this speech, saying it would be ''workmanlike'' with no high rhetoric. But his and his writing team's product lacked the freshness of his 2004 convention stunner, the winning modesty of his 2006 Gridiron Club address (''Thank you for all the generous advance coverage ... when I actually do something, we'll let you know'') and the grace of his gentle disassociation from his longtime pastor this summer. 
 His stump speech in the primaries was finely honed; the delivery of his televised victory speeches showed a thrilling mastery of the teleprompter. By becoming the first African-American to win a major party's presidential nomination, he made history, but he failed to come up with a historic acceptance address. Having set a Stevensonian standard for stirring eloquence, he cannot get by with workmanlike speechwriting.
 ''Don't tell me that Democrats won't defend this country,'' he cried angrily. ''Don't tell me that Democrats won't keep us safe.'' Who's telling him that? By escalating criticism, he knocked down a straw man, the oldest speechifying trick in the book. He promised to ''restore our moral standing'' (shades of Jimmy Carter) ''so that America is once more the last, best hope for'' (Lincoln wrote of) ''all who are called to the cause of freedom'' (shades of George W. Bush). But does he apply that idealist ''cause of freedom'' to the invaded Georgians? He didn't say.
 Goaded by increasingly worried advisers, he turned personal and mean. ''If John McCain wants to have a debate about who has the temperament, and judgment, to serve as the next commander in chief, that's a debate I'm ready to have.'' That use of ''temperament,'' accent on the ''temper,'' was a throwback to the slur at Barry Goldwater as ''trigger happy.'' (It worked for Lyndon Johnson.) 
 Then came a strange one: ''John McCain likes to say that he'll follow bin Laden to the gates of Hell -- but he won't even go to the cave where he lives.'' What's that supposed to mean -- that McCain is a coward, unwilling to lead a charge into the hills of Pakistan? That Obama would? Most post-speech TV analysis, blown away by the sky-piercing fireworks, ignored that low blow; nor was attention paid to his replay of the charge that ''naysayers'' are motivated by more than his politics: ''I don't fit the typical pedigree.'' 
 It was only human for Obama to show his irritation with McCain's successful ''celebrity'' spot zinging his rock-star reception by the Berlin 200,000, and Obama's exploitation of Phil Gramm's ''nation of whiners'' gaffe was a legitimate political pop. However, treating as serious McCain's joking definition of ''middle class'' as earning $5 million a year was a bit much from a candidate who derogated working-class Hillary Clinton supporters as ''bitter,'' claiming ''they cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them.''
 Supporters of John McCain and Sarah Palin (did I mention I'm one?) were glad to hear Obama reach into the John Edwards playbook to fan resentment that turned independent voters away from the Democratic ticket four years ago. He could not resist his version of the old class warfare, ''two Americas'' pitch. And he revealed his own promise to tighten management of the economy from Washington as never before with a soothing banality: ''Our government should work for us, not against us. It should help us, not hurt us.''
 A poignant reminder of the Original Obama came in the speech's moving peroration. His evocation of Martin Luther King's dream of togetherness at the Lincoln Memorial was beautiful and timely. 
 A stern editor could have improved the 4,500-word acceptance by cutting a thousand words of populist boilerplate and partisan-pleasing shots that offend centrists. But the die was cast before the writing began. The pretension of the fake Grecian temple setting clashed with the high-decibel, rock-star format and overwhelmed the history implicit in the event. Ancient Greeks had a word for it: hubris. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (69%); TAX LAW (66%); IRAQ WAR (64%); OIL EXTRACTION (64%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (64%); TERRORISM (63%); FAMILY (62%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (61%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (54%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



782 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2493 words

HEADLINE: Red Ink, Despite Boldface Names

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
NICKY HILTON no longer speaks to him. Neither does Rande Gerber, the lounge and bar owner, nor Don Peebles, the real estate mogul and Obama fund-raiser. His wife, Jennifer, divorced him. Even his mother is suing him.
 So it goes when you're down on your luck. And Robert Falor is down on his luck. 
 Although this roly-poly, baby-faced real estate developer is hardly a household name, he cut deals with plenty of people who were. Deftly working the celebrity circuit, while claiming to be developing more than $1 billion worth of properties around Miami and Chicago, he snared newspaper plaudits as the ''condo-hotel king.'' 
 Today, the king's realm is nearly bankrupt. In Miami Beach, two hotels in the high-gloss South Beach neighborhood that he planned to market under Ms. Hilton's name became the haunts of squatters rather than stars and were auctioned in the spring. Another Miami Beach hotel, the Royal Palm, also slipped from his grasp, in 2007 -- as did relationships with his partners in that deal, Mr. Peebles and Mr. Gerber. 
 Former business associates assert in lawsuits that Mr. Falor, 40, pretended to own property that wasn't his, used business funds for personal toys like luxury cars and a private jet, and otherwise mismanaged his finances. 
 He now says he's so short on cash that he doesn't have a personal bank account or any property, according to court documents. Yet records unearthed by his mother's lawyer showed that a company associated with him was paying $8,000 a month to rent a 12,000-square-foot Normandy-style manor in the Chicago suburb of Riverwoods. 
 While every financial bubble spawns a new crop of wheeler-dealers who exploit the mania, Mr. Falor's former investors and business associates say he stood out because of his almost flawless appreciation of the currency of celebrity. Riding the crest of the real estate boom from 2004 to 2008, he found banks, investors and buyers clamoring to work with him, even though little in his background suggested that he could deliver on his promises. He gave dinners at Miami Beach steakhouses like Prime One Twelve and Smith & Wollensky. He entertained at hotel penthouses and led investors on nights of club-hopping. He made sure that those he cultivated were on the guest lists for opening-night cocktail parties at Miami area hotspots.
 ''He understands how to drop names,'' says Michael Voll, a Cleveland businessman who poured $1.1 million into Mr. Falor's projects, including the venture with Ms. Hilton. ''They were names that everybody could recognize.'' 
 Mr. Voll, who says his relationship with Mr. Falor has caused stress-related heart problems, is suing him, contending fraud, breach of contract and negligent misrepresentation, among other accusations. 
 Mr. Falor didn't respond to interview requests, but his lawyer, Ariel Weissberg, disputes that misconduct occurred in any of Mr. Falor's dealings. ''Robert Falor has gone on the record before denying any allegations of wrongdoing,'' says Mr. Weissberg. ''He strongly denies any allegations that he wrongfully procured any money.''
 Indeed, Mr. Weissberg says, Mr. Falor's woes and those of his business partners are a reflection of a flawed business strategy and nothing more. 
 ''He got caught in a bad concept -- which is the hotel-condo concept,'' he says. ''That's a failed concept. With a failed concept, he was swept along. That was a bitter lesson, and he is trying to learn how to deal with all that financial distress.''
 Others have a different view. Dianna Cheng, a commercial real estate broker in Miami who successfully sued Mr. Falor for $300,000 she had lent him out of her $600,000 commission on the Royal Palm, says she still hasn't been paid in full. In good times, she says, Mr. Falor can be charming but in bad times he can be downright nasty. ''He turned from Dr. Jekyll to Mr. Hyde'' when she asked for her money back, she says. 
 She also says Mr. Falor trafficked in one of the real estate trade's oldest lures. 
 ''He had a great story,'' she says.
 MR. FALOR literally grew up in hotels, including the Tremont Hotel in Chicago and what is now the Sheraton Bal Harbour near Miami, according to Anthony Falor, his older half-brother. Robert Falor's father, David Falor, managed the hotels, and to help him the Falor boys washed dishes, worked as bellmen and assisted with security. 
 Anthony Falor says that ''Robert was the apple of David's eye,'' who mimicked his dad by carrying around a briefcase. He was the son whom ''David was kind of grooming'' to succeed him. According to Anthony, David Falor started his own business, the Falor Companies, in 1983, managing and acquiring hotels. Anthony, who left the company in 1990, said Robert dropped out of college to work in his father's hotels, taking on odd jobs like security and food and beverage supplies.
 David Falor stepped back from the business in 2000, according to one version of the company's Web site, and Robert assumed operational control. Though he didn't buy out his father, family members had rearranged their ownership stakes in 2001, according to a lawsuit that his mother, Marie Falor, filed against Robert and her ex-husband. 
 Ownership initially was split in thirds among Robert and his parents. After the shift, six people held equal stakes: not only Robert and his parents but also his wife, his brother Christopher and Christopher's wife, Holly. 
 After taking the helm, Robert wanted to raise the company's profile. In court testimony, he said he wanted to invest in businesses that were more lucrative than the smaller hotel management deals his father had worked on, said Stephen J. Schlegel, Marie Falor's lawyer. 
 Among the new opportunities he pursued was the condo-hotel market.
 During the real estate boom, condo-hotels were seen as a way for stars, jet-setters and other well-heeled investors to buy apartments that they could rent to others part time. Mr. Falor also decided to jump-start his foray into the condo-hotel market by trying to sprinkle stardust on his properties.
 ''He always had a fixation with being recognized,'' Anthony Falor says.
 That, too, was a prized strategy in the recent real estate boom. Many developers turned to people like Pamela Anderson to lure buyers willing to spend $750,000 on pieds-a-terre by giving parties at condo showrooms for the famous -- even B-listers like Mickey Rourke and Ryan Seacrest. 
 Some celebrity deals never panned out. George Clooney and Michael Jordan, for example, attached their names to luxury condo projects in Las Vegas that were canceled. But many times, the presence of just one big, glitzy name persuaded others with money to pony up.
 Anthony Guinta, a principal at an Atlanta wealth management firm, said he often saw this phenomenon over the last few years. ''If they see other successful people going into something, they don't do the due diligence because they think somebody else did it for them,'' he says. ''It happens often because they want to be associated with the names.''
 When Mr. Falor started aggressively shopping his condo-hotel concept to investors in 2004, he promoted to the news media his family's history in the hotel business. And versions of his company's Web site from 2006 show that he said his firm had a ''40-year track record in virtually every area of hotel operations.'' 
 Mr. Voll, the businessman based in Cleveland whose first major real estate investment was with Mr. Falor, heard about his venture through two friends more experienced in property trades. He said that when he researched Mr. Falor's name on the Internet in 2004, no problems came up.
 ''Robert Falor had very little litigation,'' he recalls. ''He was certainly a very believable guy, and I did my due diligence.''
 It also appeared to him that many wealthy investors had leapt at Mr. Falor's deals. After Mr. Voll had his first 20-minute conversation with Mr. Falor in 2004, he decided to meet him at an investors' meeting in Miami Beach. He said Mr. Falor and his father, David, talked up condo-hotels over cocktails and appetizers. Afterward, Mr. Falor invited more than a dozen guests to take a limo to one of the nearby hotels he was developing. 
 Mr. Voll said he ultimately lost the entire $1.1 million he invested with Mr. Falor. In a suit filed last year, Mr. Voll contends that Mr. Falor conceded that neither he nor his companies owned one of the properties in which he invested. 
 INVESTORS like Mr. Voll, however, weren't at the top of Mr. Falor's list. He had his eye on celebrities -- particularly people like Nicky Hilton. How Mr. Falor first connected with her is unclear. Ms. Hilton and her lawyer wouldn't comment, and Paul Fisher, Ms. Hilton's manager, didn't return calls.
 But Nizar Idrisi, an architect who says he worked on hotel plans for Ms. Hilton, said that it was Mr. Fisher who hatched the partnership idea. A former agent for the supermodel Naomi Campbell, Mr. Fisher decided that real estate was the perfect vehicle for extending Ms. Hilton's brand name, according to Mr. Idrisi. So Mr. Fisher placed a newspaper advertisement seeking a real estate partner to collaborate with an unnamed celebrity, and the Falors responded, Mr. Idrisi said.
 According to court documents, Ms. Hilton signed a contract in 2006 with Mr. Falor in which he agreed to pay her a $250,000 licensing fee to lend her name and to attend at least a dozen promotional events for the ''Nicky O. hotels.''
 Mr. Falor also offered some perks for the days of the promotional events: complimentary hotel rooms for Ms. Hilton and her friends, up to $500 for hair and makeup, a food budget of $150 and chauffeured car service. Mr. Idrisi said Mr. Falor's brother Christopher helped smooth the deal by entertaining Ms. Hilton's business associates. 
 In exchange, Ms. Hilton promoted her vision for the hotels on ''Late Night With David Letterman'' and in People magazine. She spoke of plans to bring in designer friends like Roberto Cavalli and her mother's friend Faye Resnick, an interior designer. Ms. Hilton also told the press that she planned to add personal touches to her new hotel chain, like cupcakes at turndown time.
 Ms. Hilton was only one of Mr. Falor's high-profile partners. In 2005, Ms. Cheng, the real estate broker, introduced Mr. Falor to R. Donahue Peebles, the owner of the Royal Palm Crowne Plaza Hotel, one of the largest hotels in Miami Beach. That same year, Mr. Peebles sold a majority stake in the hotel to Mr. Falor and another partner, who planned to convert it into a condo-hotel. 
 Again, Mr. Falor proved adept at attracting stars. In March 2006, Maxim magazine and Rande Gerber, head of a bar chain that includes the Whiskey lounges and husband of Cindy Crawford, said they planned to add a Maxim-themed bar to the Royal Palm that Mr. Gerber would run. While it's unclear how Mr. Falor met Mr. Gerber, he quickly promoted his ties to Mr. Gerber and Maxim on his Web site. 
 Despite harnessing a modicum of star power, Mr. Falor wasn't able to sell enough condos to keep all his deals moving along while paying down his mortgages on the properties. He quickly got into financial trouble even when he was able to secure loans from established lenders.
 To buy the Royal Palm, Mr. Falor had secured $135 million in financing. A Credit Suisse unit provided $111 million and a private fund managed by BlackRock lent $24.5 million, according to a Standard & Poor's report. But Ms. Cheng said that Mr. Falor still didn't have enough to close on the sale in the spring of 2005 and asked her for a loan. By July 2006, Mr. Falor hadn't paid back Ms. Cheng and, according to the report, started missing mortgage payments. 
 His track record wasn't any better with the Breakwater and Edison hotels, which he was combining and converting into a Nicky O. hotel. According to Jonas Mimoun, who sold a stake in the Breakwater to Mr. Falor in 2004, Mr. Falor had problems from the start. After buying the property with a short-term bridge loan, he was unable to secure long-term financing. 
 Mr. Mimoun, who has sued Mr. Falor, describes the developer as ''always a day late and a dollar behind.'' By May 2005, Mr. Falor had sought bankruptcy protection (which he later withdrew) when he had trouble getting long-term financing for the Breakwater and Edison hotels. But with the real estate bubble in full expansion, he was able to line up a $20 million loan from Canyon Capital Realty Advisors and a secondary loan from Oaktree Capital Management to buy the Edison. 
 That didn't solve all his problems. Local real estate agents say Mr. Falor had trouble selling the Nicky O. units because he mispriced them. Peter Zalewski, a Miami Beach broker, said that Mr. Falor had a location with ''prime'' views, but was asking buyers to pay roughly $2,000 a square foot for a condo-hotel unit they could use only part time, when traditional condos nearby cost about $1,000 a foot. After buyers factored in maintenance, taxes and other fees, it would have been unlikely that rental revenue would have covered the monthly cost of their investment. 
 ''The property was everything you would have thought it would be,'' Mr. Zalewski said, but ''the purchase prices were so high.''
 In the meantime, Mr. Falor's partnership with Ms. Hilton began to fall apart. In February 2007, he sued her and Mr. Fisher, contending that the celebutante hadn't promoted the Nicky O. hotels, even though he had paid for parties and hotel rooms. The case was settled confidentially in 2007 and Ms. Hilton's lawyer declined to comment. 
 The two Nicky O. hotels were auctioned this spring after Mr. Falor didn't qualify for additional loans. 
 Another of his celebrity-fueled deals -- the Royal Palm -- also cratered because of fraying financials. Mr. Falor let his mortgage with Credit Suisse lapse into default, according to the S.& P. report.
 In April 2007, Mr. Peebles, who still owned a small stake in the hotel, sued Royal Palm's majority owners -- Mr. Falor and his business partner, Guy Mitchell -- saying that the hotel had been mismanaged. Mr. Mitchell didn't respond to interview requests.
 Mr. Peebles declined to talk about the case or about working with Mr. Falor. The Royal Palm is now in receivership, and Mr. Gerber's bar was never built. Mr. Gerber didn't respond to interview requests.
 FOR a long time, some of Mr. Falor's relatives thought that his business was thriving. Anthony Falor says he heard stories through family members about how Robert had met Mr. Gerber and Ms. Crawford.
 But when Ms. Falor added her son Robert to a suit against her ex-husband in late 2004, seeking a share of the profits from their ventures, she heard a different story: her son didn't have any money. 
 Ms. Falor is now waiting for a Chicago judge to rule on a settlement, but it might be hard to negotiate. At a hearing on her lawsuit on July 21 in Chicago, Mr. Falor's lawyer told the court that his client was broke. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nicky Hilton and Robert Falor planned ''Nicky O. hotels,'' to include the Edison Hotel in Miami Beach.
Rande Gerber, who is married to Cindy Crawford, planned to work with Maxim magazine to open a bar in Mr. Falor's Royal Palm hotel in Miami Beach. (PHOTOGRAPHS, TOP LEFT, KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES
TOP, ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ABOVE RIGHT, VINCE BUCCI/GETTY IMAGES
ABOVE, JOHN LOOMIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ROBERT FALOR (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER THOMPSON)(BU1)
Don Peebles, above, sold most of a hotel to Robert Falor, then accused him of mismanagement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Falor planned to make the Morton in Chicago, which had become a Hyatt, into a Nicky Hilton-brand hotel, a Nicky O. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU8) CHART: Heartbreak Hotels: Robert Falor developed properties across the country that he said were worth more than $1 billion. He courted celebrities and investors to participate in his projects, many of which foundered. Two of his prominent debacles were ventures to develop condo-hotels in the fashionable South Beach area of Miami Beach. (CHART BY ELAINE HE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); NEGLIGENCE (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (72%); CONTRACTS LAW (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); LUXURY GOODS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%)

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



783 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: The Spotlight Arrives, to Some Unease, in a State That Savors Its Isolation

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE 

 BODY:
Cars here still have bumper stickers from the days when women dominated the grueling 1,100-mile Iditarod sled dog race.
 ''Alaska,'' they read. ''Where men are men and women win the Iditarod.''
 And now, apparently, where women also run for vice president of the United States. 
 As stunned Alaskans recover from the surprise announcement on Friday that Sarah Palin, their charming, gun-owning, two-year governor, is Senator John McCain's choice as running mate on the Republican presidential ticket, they are beginning to realize, with some trepidation, that the state they love for its isolation, quirkiness and wacky politics is about to get its national close-up.
 ''If you look at this as making Alaska's image important in the nation's consciousness, she's a fairly problematic figure,'' said Mike Doogan, a Democratic state legislator who for years was a columnist for The Anchorage Daily News. 
 Ms. Palin, who served Mr. Doogan cupcakes on his birthday during the legislative session, is a self-described hockey mom who takes a biblical view on issues like gay marriage and abortion and is credited with standing up to Alaska's entrenched Republican politicians and the oil companies that wield great influence.
 That has made her wildly popular in a state that, despite pockets of liberal thinking, is largely conservative.
 With five children, a husband who is part Yu'pik Eskimo and a family that fishes for salmon, eats moose meat and knows how to handle snow machines, Ms. Palin resonates with people who might not agree with all of her stands. And that matters in a state with a strong sense of identity.
 ''She comes off like a real oil patch kind of Alaskan,'' Mr. Doogan said. 
 But the things that impress Alaskans are not things that necessarily will impress people in the rest of the country.
 ''At least she can shoot better than Dick Cheney, I can tell you that for a fact,'' said Nancy Gundlach, a university researcher from Fairbanks who raises racing dogs. ''In a national forum, that might be a little difficult to appreciate, but she's a woman who doesn't back down.''
 Still, there is a sense among many Alaskans that the rest of the country might wind up not understanding their state, or worse -- discovering how beautiful Alaska is and moving here.
 Alaska has long had that kind of duality. On one hand, the state takes great pride in not doing things the way they are done in the rest of the country. At the same time, there is a hunger to be part of the cultural and commercial flow of the rest of America. A Target store set to open this fall is generating much excitement. Singers on the downslide know they can breath new life into their careers at sold-out shows here. 
 ''Our governor is going to be vice president, and we still don't have an Olive Garden,'' said Keri Baranou, 30, who sells sewing machines.
 Already, Ms. Palin's success is being considered Alaska's success. Within a day, people in Anchorage were wearing T-shirts that said ''Go Sarah!'' -- as if she were still playing point guard for the Wasilla High School basketball team. 
 ''Her success is all of ours in many ways,'' said Jimmy Ng, a retired member of the Coast Guard who lives in Kodiak. ''It shows the best thing about Alaska, which is that if you have any skill at all, you can rise up.''
 Alaskans also bristle at the suggestion that Ms. Palin might not have enough experience with international issues. What, they argue, could be more important internationally than fisheries or oil, the state's predominant economic issues?
 And then there is the geography.
 ''We are staring at Russia every day,'' said Joy Ng, who has been married to Mr. Ng for 35 years. 
 As a woman, she said she had a personal appreciation for Ms. Palin.
 ''She's a different kind of feminist,'' Ms. Ng said. ''She is a strong woman who can wear a skirt and be proud of it.''
 That is just the kind of thing that makes more liberal Alaskans cringe. 
 ''It's a real embarrassment,'' said River Bean, an organic farmer who works 20 acres outside of Anchorage. ''Can you imagine having the mayor of Wasilla as the vice president?''
 Wasilla, the small town a little less than an hour's drive from Anchorage where Ms. Palin became mayor and rose to political power, is considered by some to be, as Mr. Bean put it, ''as ugly as sin.''
 Still, she is an Alaskan. So even some of her staunchest critics hope she does not crumble under the pressure of the presidential race for fear it will reflect badly on the state.
 Then again, there is the Alaskan approach.
 ''I don't care what the image of Alaska is to anyone else,'' said Sharon Rooth, a longtime resident. ''If I cared what America thought, I'd live there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Downtown Anchorage on Saturday. Alaska residents were divided over whether Gov. Sarah Palin was a good face for their state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BOROUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DOGS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MAMMALS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); GOVERNORS (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); LIBERALISM (54%); ABORTION (51%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (51%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (58%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); DICK CHENEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



784 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: At a Skeptical Diner, a Poll Finds a Need for More Than a Speech

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: DERBY, Conn. 

 BODY:
 Michelle Drury watched Barack Obama's speech Thursday night and she swooned. 
 ''I think the guy's amazing,'' Ms. Drury, a registered nurse from nearby Beacon Falls, said on Friday over the low buzz at the Valley Diner in Connecticut's blue-collar Naugatuck Valley. ''I thought he gave a great speech. To be honest, I can't turn my eyes from him when he's on. For a 41-year-old, getting-divorced woman, he's a hottie. I thought he laid out a phenomenal plan and finally told us a lot about himself.''
 And whom will she be voting for in November? John McCain. 
 ''I've loved watching Obama emerge and evolve, but I don't vote based on the swing of the fever,'' said Ms. Drury, a mother of three who said she thinks of herself as a liberal Republican. ''He put out a lot of great words, but we live in a very dangerous world, and I just don't think Obama's ready yet. I think he will eventually be a great president, but not yet.''
 There's a very short shelf life to magic in American life, and a half-day after Mr. Obama's epic evening at Invesco Field in Denver, the world was already agog over Mr. McCain's vice presidential choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska. It's no doubt true that the enormous audience for Mr. Obama's speech and the jolt it gave to Democrats could have benefits that are hard to measure, and initial polls seemed to show some post-convention bounce.
 But the message at this popular diner in Connecticut's smallest city seemed to be that no matter how remarkable the theatrics, what thrills pundits on television doesn't necessarily change too many souls in the real world.
 Derby, all five square miles of it, occupies resonant political turf. Once a manufacturing center in the industrial belt of the Naugatuck Valley of southwestern Connecticut, it's now part of an area dotted by shuttered red-brick factories that is long on pride and high school football rivalries, but short on jobs.
 Once reliably and fiercely Democratic, it's now home to many of the conservative Democrats who became Republicans in the Reagan years and have not come back. Even the names of the Democratic Town Committee members, Dugatto-Coscia, Chudoba, D'Onofrio, Gorzelany, Kurtyka, Murphy, Piscioneri, Varsanik, hark back to the old ethnic Democratic base. 
 While Connecticut's big cities like Hartford and New Haven and high-dollar suburbs in Litchfield and Fairfield Counties voted for Mr. Obama in the February Democratic primary, the valley went solidly for Hillary Rodham Clinton. As such it's the New York area's closest stand-in for the blue-collar precincts in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan that could decide the election.
 But if the theatrics on Mr. Obama's big night changed many minds, it was hard to tell.
 A table of Republicans was distinctly unimpressed. The whole night was garish and undignified, more fit for the Olympics than for a political convention. Mr. Obama is just a show horse long on rhetoric and short on action. And even the verbiage was overdone. ''Abraham Lincoln would have been turning over in his grave,'' said Peter Diana, an insurance adjuster from Derby. 
 Nick and Josephine Camilini, retirees from Seymour, are Democrats who voted for Mrs. Clinton in the primary, but would have voted for Mr. Obama in November even if they had not loved his speech on Thursday. 
 ''It's time to get the Republicans out of there,'' Mr. Camilini said. ''Bush for me has been the worst president in history. McCain would be more of the same. His foreign policy stinks. His economic policy stinks. His energy policy stinks.''
 At a table across the room, Monika Vitino of Stratford was thrilled with the speech, but she is not an American citizen and cannot vote. Her husband, Nicholas Vitino, also thought it was great, but he's a Ron Paul man and will vote either for Bob Barr or Ralph Nader, not Mr. Obama or Mr. McCain (''same horse, different saddle''). Their daughter Margie Smith of Newtown was for Mr. McCain before the speech and for him afterward. 
 And then there were the customary wonders of American indifference. Mike Palmieri, 23, is in the Army at Fort Drum in upstate New York and then headed to Afghanistan. You might think he'd have a stake in things, but he said that politics was not his thing and that he was not paying attention. There was the woman who declined to give her name who didn't know who was running for president.
 The person most in limbo seemed to be Geraldine Peter of Ansonia, a Clinton voter in the primary who's not sure if she will vote for Mr. Obama. She said she would take a longer look at the Republicans with Mrs. Palin on the ticket.
 But then, expecting a convention speech to change a lot of minds may be a pretty high bar. Getting your side energized and engaged is usually enough. And, in a quiet way, maybe that was there. You could hear it in the feisty pride of Margery Nicoletti, 88 and an Obama voter from the primary, in Cindy Tottenham of Seymour, who was getting married over the weekend but seemed excited about Mr. Obama's message of change as well as her own.
 Eugene O'Hara, a 77-year-old retired teacher, said he had five family members in the military. He was a big supporter of Mrs. Clinton, but came away from the convention very comfortable with Mr. Obama.
 ''I thought she gave a fantastic speech, but he did, too,'' he said. ''He said the things that needed to be said. He put it right on the table. He showed how he'd attack McCain. He's my man. I just can't take another four years of the Republicans.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Monk, a Republican, dismissed the Democratic Convention as an empty spectacle.
Margery Nicoletti, left, and Lidia Baldelli said they would vote for Barack Obama.
 Michelle Drury said of Mr. Obama, ''I think the guy's amazing,'' but supports John McCain. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (61%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (54%)

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (74%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



785 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1696 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: August 31, 2008

 BODY:
International
 PESSIMISM CLOUDS TIME
 For Renewal in France
 The French are returning en masse from holiday -- ''La Rentree'' -- but there is much concern about what they are returning to. The public mood remains sour amid worries about inflation, purchasing power and the country's place in a less stable world. PAGE 8 
 A TRIP TO REMOTE DOTS
 Dokdo is a cluster of barely inhabitable islets that South Korea administers and Japan claims. It has also become an odd tourist attraction in recent years, especially for Koreans who have never forgiven Japan for its brutal occupation of their country and who continue to measure success against Japanese competitors. PAGE 6 
 CONFLICT SPILLS INTO CHESS
 Russia's military action in Georgia this month is having repercussions in an unexpected realm: the world of chess. Nine women who were to compete in the world championships, held in the Russian city of Nalchik in the Caucasus, were disqualified for not appearing out of protest. ''All the issues should be settled at a chess board, and not beyond its limits,'' the head of the World Chess Federation said. PAGE 11 
 National
 WITH TENURE ENDING,
 Cheney Ponders Legacy
 Dick Cheney, who has remade the American vice president's role and expanded its scope, is readying for the transition from public life to private citizen. With his legacy on his mind, the usually secretive Mr. Cheney is even considering writing a book, after years of insisting that he never would. PAGE 29 
 BUILDING A FUTURE CASTLE
 For the past 20 years, Casper Noz, a 51-year-old contractor has been obsessively building Kasteel Noz, a turreted brick castle in Snelling, Calif. Working by himself almost completely by hand on weekends, the grand plan is for Mr. Noz and his wife, to retire at the home with two towers and a moat, though the castle is only half-completed, with four more towers to come.
 PAGE 20 
 A RIVALRY OF TWIN CITIES
 Though it has being held in St. Paul, the Republican National Convention has been a joint effort between the Twin Cities. But it has stoked the sometimes playful, sometimes intense rivalry between St. Paul and Minneapolis, its bigger, more confident sibling 10 miles to the west. PAGE 27 
 Obituaries
 MICHAEL BAXANDALL, 74
 He helped paved the way for the influential movement known as new art history by analyzing the social forces that shaped works of art. ''He provided the tools we needed to take works of art out of the frame and off the pedestal to see how they really worked,'' an art historian at New York University said. PAGE 36
 Metro
 THE METROCARD
 As Collector's Item
 Since the New York City subway token was phased out in favor of the MetroCard, memorabilia buffs have been collecting the cards. They're not swiping them; they're swapping, selling or simply saving what they consider to be miniature works of art because the flip sides of the cards depict world leaders, landmarks, entertainers, animals and advertisements. PAGE 33 
 WOOING THE VALLEY'S VOTERS
 Connecticut's blue-collar Naugatuck Valley is the New York area's closest stand-in for the blue-collar precincts in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan that could decide the election. And if Barack Obama's convention speech changed minds there, it was hard to tell. Peter Applebome, Our Towns. PAGE 31 
 Sports
 DOING THINGS HIS WAY
 With a trim mustache and goatee and black-rimmed glasses, the Mets manager Jerry Manuel looks like the guy playing stand-up bass at a hip new club downtown. He has a rabid intellectual hunger and fasts for days during the off-season. ''He sees things from a different perspective than other people,'' the slugger Carlos Beltran said. PAGE 3 
 Aussies' Rough Open 6 
 THE MAGAZINE
 THE FINAL DAYS
 Of President No. 43
 As he hands over control of his party to Senator John McCain, what does President Bush really think about his former rival, the fall campaign and his own presidential legacy? PAGE 26
 THE TASTEMAKER
 How the Italian designer Stefano Pilati, with his thing for fabric, made Yves Saint Laurent sexy again. PAGE 20
 Questions for: Bobby Jindal 11 
 BOOK REVIEW
 THE WILD CREATURE 
 That Went Urban
 ''Superdove: How the Pigeon Took Manhattan ... and the World,'' not only seeks to explain the how, it also ''goes beyond, to explore what pigeons reveal about human nature,'' Elizabeth Royte writes in her review. ''It isn't always pretty.'' PAGE 6
 OLD TIMES NOT FORGOTTEN
 In ''Blue Dixie,'' the writer Bob Moser argues that the South is ready and waiting for its old flame, the Democrats, to call and ask for a date. An unpersuaded Chris Suellentrop writes in his review that Moser may at least show Democrats that ''the South is a lot more complicated and interesting than they have made it out to be.'' PAGE 19
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 RATING THE PARTIES
 For Economic Impact
 Alan S. Blinder writes that ''Unequal Democracy,'' a new book by a professor of political science at Princeton, purports to show how Americans fare economically under Republican and Democratic presidents. Spoiler alert: Democrats come out ahead. But, Ben Stein writes, are Barack Obama's economic policies the best approach? PAGE 1
 TAKING BACK THE NIGHT
 The International Dark-Sky Association and supporters hope to work with business to return to a situation in which people can look toward the heavens and once again actually see the heavenly bodies up there. It hasn't always been an easy sell with people who equate brighter with better. PAGE 4
 ARTS & LEISURE
 COEN BROTHERS RETURN
 To Coen Country
 Any concerns that the four Oscars for their film ''No Country for Old Men'' might derail the brothers Joel and Ethan Coen appear to be unfounded. Their latest project ''Burn After Reading'' will make longtime fans feel as if they're in familiar territory. PAGE 1
 THE FUTURE OF CHESS
 Both Viswanathan Anand of India, the world champion who is also ranked No. 1, and his predecessor, Garry Kasparov, have anointed the person they consider the future world champion: the unassuming Magnus Carlsen of Norway, all of 17. The Grand Slam Chess Final Masters, which starts on Tuesday in Bilbao, Spain, may be another step in his rise. PAGE 14 
 AUTOMOBILES
 KEEPER OF THE FLAME
 For a Defunct Brand
 They say you never forget your first love, which would explain, in automotive terms, why Darrell L. Davis may be the world's foremost collector of '54 Plymouths and an enthusiastic keeper of the flame for the defunct Plymouth brand. He even set up part of his garage as a fully equipped Plymouth dealership showroom. PAGE 1 (Page 11 in Sunday Business in some copies)
 STYLES
 A CABANA CULTURE
 Approaches Sunset
 They have had a good long run. But for the cabana communities along Lido Beach, between the towns of Long Beach and Point Lookout in Nassau County on Long Island, change is creeping up as relative newcomers are starting to outnumber members with generations-deep roots in the community. PAGE 1
 PUT A RECORD ON
 ''It takes a special kind of person to appreciate pops and clicks and imperfections in their music,'' says a devotee of vinyl, a format thought by some to be obsolete. But the ranks are growing, and not just among the crowd that grew up with turntables, 45s and 33s. PAGE 1
 TRAVEL
 YES, IT'S A LOVELY ROOM.
 But I Don't Like It.
 Hotel rooms at the same price don't necessarily mean the same comfort or appeal -- even within the same hotel. How to get the one you want? Ask to be moved if you need to. (Nicely, of course.) And tipping doesn't hurt. PAGE 5
 A WORK IN PROGRESS
 The trailblazers in Mexico City have moved beyond the Condesa and Roma neighborhoods for Santa Maria la Ribera, just northwest of Mexico City's historic center. If you visit, enjoy the people-watching. But don't go out alone at night. PAGE 4
 URUGUAY'S HOT SPRINGS
 Most American travelers to Uruguay probably never get beyond the cruise ship stops at Punta del Este, the Atlantic beach resort or Montevideo, the capital. But there are signs that the hot springs along the Uruguay River may be changing that. PAGE 9
 36 Hours: Biarritz 10
 WEEK IN REVIEW
 TOBACCO AND GOVERNMENT:
 An Economic Partnership
 Some smoking opponents have called for a ban on menthol-flavor cigarettes, citing research suggesting that menthol may make it easier to start smoking and harder to quit. But the government's increasing reliance on cigarette taxes provides a sort of insurance policy for the continued survival of menthol cigarettes. PAGE 3
 SEPARATION RUMBLINGS
 Though polls show that no more than a third of the population favors it, Scottish independence seems to be gaining traction in the British news media, and Scottish nationalists promise to hold a Scotland-wide referendum on independence from England by 2010. Is Britain the new Belgium, another European nation threatening to come unglued? PAGE 5
 GAUGING WELL-BEING
 The gross domestic product may be just fine as a measure of wealth, but is less than perfect as a gauge for the nation's overall well-being, Louis Uchitelle writes. How else to explain the G.D.P.'s rise at a time when most people's spirits are going down? PAGE 3
 Editorial
 NO ONE LIVES 
 There Anymore
 Across the United States, neighborhoods are littered with an estimated 900,000 vacant homes, the result of foreclosures, bank repossessions and abandonment. Such blight is contagious. Week in Review, Page 9
 THE COURTS AND MR. ARAR
 We were deeply disheartened when a federal appeals court panel dismissed the civil rights lawsuit brought by Maher Arar, a victim of the Bush administration's notorious policy of ''extraordinary rendition.'' Week in Review, Page 9
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 Yes, he can, and so he did. Barack Obama overcame the inane manufactured melodrama labeled ''convention coverage.'' Week in Review, Page 10
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 In Guangdong Province, you're starting to see the emergence of Chinese clean-tech companies, but there is a dawning awareness that the economy must get even greener and smarter. Week in Review, Page 10
 ON BARACK OBAMA
 Three writers offer up their thoughts on the first African-American to win a major party's presidential nomination. Week in Review, Page 12

CORRECTION-DATE: September 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A capsule summary on Sunday for an article about Dokdo Island, which Japan calls Takeshima and claims as its own territory, misidentified, in some editions, the country that administers the island and also claims rights to it. As the article correctly noted, it is South Korea -- not North Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARD GAMES (90%); CITY LIFE (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); HISTORY (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (68%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (64%); ART HISTORY (64%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (62%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (55%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (53%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MINNESOTA, USA (74%) JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); GEORGIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008



786 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 7948 words

HEADLINE: The Final Days

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER. 
Peter Baker, a contributing writer, covered the White House and is working on a book on the Bush presidency. This is his first article for the magazine.

 BODY:
The armored black limousine rolled to a halt near the foot of Air Force One. Secret Service agents opened the doors simultaneously, and from opposite sides emerged President George W. Bush and Senator John McCain. They circled around to stand side by side and, for the next 14 seconds, smiled and waved at the assembled cameras -- 14 seconds of ritual demanded by political convention. Bush pecked the senator's wife, Cindy, on the cheek, shook McCain's hand and sprinted up the stairs. At the top of the landing, he waved again and disappeared into the plane. That was May. As of late this month, the president and the would-be successor from his own party have not spoken since. 
 A relationship fraught with bitter resentment, grudging respect and mutual dependence takes center stage this week as the Republican Party gathers in St. Paul to pass the mantle of leadership. As at that May photo opportunity in Phoenix, which followed a fund-raiser, Bush will be ushered out of the spotlight as quickly as possible -- if not in 14 seconds, then not all that much longer. After an opening-night speech tomorrow, he will leave town with none of the celebratory rock-star attention Bill Clinton commanded at Al Gore's convention and retreat to Camp David before McCain even arrives at the Xcel Energy Center for his coronation.
 No matter how careful the orchestration, though, a rivalry seared in the brutal lowlands of South Carolina circles around to this moment. Eight years after their epic Republican primary battle of 2000, the first-place finisher desperately needs the second-place finisher to win in order to validate his own legacy. And the runner-up now finds himself saddled with the baggage of a man he never much liked to begin with, forced to live with a record he personally considers deeply lacking and portrayed as if he were a clone of his longtime adversary. As John Weaver, McCain's former chief strategist told me, ''I'm sure McCain is thinking, Is Bush going to beat me twice?''
 Anxious denizens of Bushworld worry that McCain will beat himself and in the process take down their best chance for deliverance when it comes to the verdict of history. One former Bush aide who spends his days publicly bashing Barack Obama sat down for lunch with me recently and before the appetizers even arrived lamented that the Democrat will probably crush McCain. He ruefully called Obama one of the three most talented political figures of his lifetime, along with John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan. Bush's political guru, Karl Rove, in conversations with friends this summer, could hardly restrain his exasperation at what he saw as the McCain team's dysfunctional organization and sclerotic message. And the president himself, according to friends and prominent Republicans, privately rails about what he considers McCain's undisciplined approach to the campaign and grouses about McCain's efforts to distance himself from the administration. A new McCain ad this month declared, ''We're worse off than we were four years ago.'' That's the sort of stinging indictment a candidate usually issues when the other party is in the White House. 
 The president understands the treacherous political environment facing Republicans and agrees that McCain cannot run as another George Bush, advisers say, but he also seems to think that the senator risks going too far because he needs the party base that still supports Bush and remains unenthusiastic about McCain. ''The idea that people could think he and Bush are at all alike probably drives him crazy,'' Dan Bartlett, the former Bush White House counselor, says of McCain. ''But if they wake up every morning thinking George W. Bush is a bigger problem than Barack Obama, they're going to lose.''
 McCain has not called the president for advice, so Bush vents his frustrations and criticisms of Obama during phone calls and get-togethers with current and former advisers. (He and Rove still meet for lunch every few weeks.) They say that the elevation of some veterans from their team, like Steve Schmidt and Nicolle Wallace, to key positions within the campaign is making a difference, and there have been signs lately that more order has been imposed on the operation. People in both the McCain and Bush camps take heart in polls showing a closer race than many initially expected. But longstanding suspicions are hard to overcome. ''You've got a lot of people in that campaign who really dislike the president,'' a McCain insider said. ''There's still a lot of people who carry a torch for the 2000 campaign.'' Among them, members of the McCain camp say, is the candidate's wife, Cindy, who remains bitter over the personal attacks on her family eight years ago. 
 The Arizona senator has hardly been subtle in his efforts to keep a distance from the president. The Phoenix event was originally scheduled as an open fund-raiser at the city's convention center, only to be moved to private residences behind closed doors at the last minute, which had the effect of drawing even more attention to the awkward, abbreviated encounter on the tarmac afterward. McCain's ''On the Trail'' photo album on his campaign Web site features pictures of him with Mike Huckabee, Bobby Jindal, Rudy Giuliani, Bill O'Reilly, Jon Stewart, Chris Matthews, Regis Philbin, even the ladies from ''The View'' -- in short, everyone but Bush. And senior Republicans say no joint appearances are planned this fall.
 ''We're trying to get the guy elected,'' Mark Salter, perhaps McCain's closest adviser, told me with a what-can-you-do shrug. ''We're obviously mindful of the president's'' -- and here he paused for a moment to think of a diplomatic way of making his point -- ''less-than-comfortable position in the country. You feel bad for the guy, if you think about it.'' 
 George Bush does not want anyone feeling bad for him. Hates the idea, in fact. Why should anyone feel bad for him? He knew what he was getting into, and he is doing what he thinks is right. But as he enters the twilight of his presidency, he finds it both a liberating and a deeply frustrating time. 
 With the war in Iraq finally going better, the dark cloud that dominated the White House for the past few years has lifted. The overnight reports Bush finds on his Oval Office desk each morning now list fewer casualties in Iraq, easing a burden friends say has weighed on him. It now looks as if the surge, one of the riskiest presidential decisions in a generation, has been vindicated. And Bush seems to be making progress getting North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons while winning a string of Congressional battles that would under other circumstances be seen as legacy victories -- a bipartisan deal on wiretapping, war financing without strings, expansion of his global AIDS program.
 As a result, friends say that Bush, who just turned 62, has been looser lately, more relaxed, more willing to joke around and even do a little dance for the cameras from time to time. He sees the end and has been thinking about life after the White House back down at the ranch and a in new home in Dallas. ''You can hear his Texas accent creeping back into his voice, rather than the I'm-the-president, no-accent kind of voice,'' observed an old friend from Texas. 
 Yet there are no valedictory days for Bush. For years, he got no credit for a long-running economic recovery, in part because of popular anger over Iraq. Now, it seems, he gets no credit for the improvements in Iraq because of deep discontent over the tattered economy. Housing and energy crises have only deepened public disaffection. While Iraq stabilizes, Afghanistan seems to be unraveling. Russia has been rampaging through its neighbor Georgia, undeterred by Bush's consternation. As John Weaver told me, ''They look better on Iraq, but they look worse on everything else.'' So many onetime loyalists have turned on the president that when the former White House press secretary Scott McClellan came out with his break-with-the-boss book in May, Bush sighed and told an aide to find a way to forgive him or risk being consumed with anger.
 While Bush publicly commits to ''sprinting to the finish'' and eschews talk of legacy, even friends say how he will be judged and remembered seems to be on his mind these days. ''When I was there, that legacy talk was strictly discouraged,'' says David Frum, a White House speechwriter in Bush's first term. ''It was considered very destructive, and we'd all seen what it had done to Clinton in his last year. That seems to have changed obviously lately. From what I hear now, he takes it very, very seriously. He doesn't joke about it like he used to.''
 Bush's place in history depends on alternate narratives that are hard to reconcile. To critics, he is the man who misled the country into a disastrous war, ruined U.S. relations around the world, wrecked the economy, squandered a budget surplus to give tax cuts to fat-cat friends, played the guitar while New Orleans drowned, politicized the Justice Department, cozied up to oil companies and betrayed American values by promoting torture, warrantless eavesdropping and a modern-day gulag at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for people never even charged with a crime. To admirers, he is the man who freed 60 million people from tyranny in Afghanistan and Iraq and planted a seed that may yet spread democracy in a vital region, while at home he reduced taxes, introduced more accountability to public schools through No Child Left Behind, expanded Medicare to cover prescription drugs, installed two new conservative Supreme Court justices and, most of all, kept America safe after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
 Whatever the president's virtues, they remain unappreciated in his own time. To say that Bush is unpopular only begins to capture the historic depths of his estrangement from the American public. He is arguably the most disliked president in seven decades. Sixty-nine percent of Americans disapproved of his performance in office in a Gallup poll in April, the highest negative rate ever recorded for any president since the firm began asking the question in 1938. And while Harry Truman and Richard Nixon at their worst had even fewer supporters -- Truman once fell to 22 percent in his job approval rating and Nixon to 24 percent, compared with Bush's low of 28 percent -- no president has endured such a prolonged period of public rejection. Bush has not enjoyed the support of a majority of Americans since March 2005, meaning he will go through virtually his entire second term without most of the public behind him.
 Bush has been so far down for so long that his aides long ago gave up any hope that the numbers would change while he is still in office. ''There's kind of a liberating aspect to it,'' Dan Bartlett told me over lunch in July, at a homey steak joint in Austin, where he returned after leaving the White House last year. ''It's not that you chase polls, but you're cognizant of them. So if you know they're not going to change, you can just do what you think is right.''
 If anything, it may be that the low numbers have become almost a badge of honor for Bush. Not that he wants to be unpopular, but he sees leadership as a test. ''Calcium'' is a favorite term he uses with aides to describe the backbone he admires. ''He does make a lot of references to Truman as the model of his late presidency, and the Truman model is unrewarded heroism -- or 'heroism' is not the right word: unrewarded courage,'' Michael Gerson, another former senior adviser to the president, told me. ''It fits very much his approach and his self-conception. His view of leadership is defined as doing the right thing against pressure.''
 Donald Ensenat, a friend of Bush's for more than 40 years who worked as his chief of protocol before stepping down last year, said that the president's view, as he paraphrased it, has come down to this: ''I've already taken my last licks for being unpopular, so these last two years I do what's right -- that's my job, not with my finger in the air.''
 If Bush ever wonders why he is not doing better, he does not do so in public. Stoicism has been a hallmark of his second term. At a Black Music Month concert in the East Room earlier this summer, a precocious 15-year-old girl with a powerful voice fixed her gaze on the president to offer her own reassurances in the form of a gospel number called ''Hold On.''
 ''I am sure that there have been many times where you have felt like all hope was gone, you felt like you wanted to give up or you couldn't make it,'' the rising young gospel star, Spensha Baker, said to the president as the audience watched. ''But the reason why this country is such a strong country is because you held on. And so I wanted to thank you for that.'' 
 And then she sang.
 I know just what it feels like to be on your own,
 And I know just what it feels like when there's no place to go.
 And I know just what it feels like to not belong.
 Yes, I know just what it feels like. Do you know? Do you know?
 When the bottom falls out, feels like you're losing ground,
 Hold on.
 When you're lost in the dark and you can't see no way out,
 Hold on.
 You gotta know it's going to get better, 
 He can put it back together,
 If you just hold on.
 Bush swayed to the music and jumped up to give her a kiss on the cheek when she was done. ''He gets a lot of flak,'' Baker told me later, ''but I don't think people know how hard it is to be president of the United States, and I wanted to come in and encourage him.'' But did the president relate to the lyrics? Has he felt lost in the dark? Does he ever experience moments of doubt or despair?
 Bush gives little indication that he does. He can flash anger over what he considers unfounded criticism or at something on his schedule he does not like, but he does not wrestle with his inner demons, at least not out loud. ''He doesn't second-guess himself,'' Jim Francis, a longtime friend from Texas, told me. ''I second-guess myself all the time -- 'Maybe I shouldn't have done this or that.' He just doesn't have that in him. I have never seen him do that. I think it gives him a comfort level in that office that others have not had.'' As Kirbyjon Caldwell, a Texas pastor who gave the benediction at both of Bush's inaugurations and officiated at Jenna Bush's wedding, told me, ''Assuming the fetal position is just not in his vocabulary.''
 Friends and advisers usually cite what some call ''the three Fs'' to explain Bush's seeming serenity in the face of so much tumult -- faith, family and friends. ''It's his deep-seated faith in God,'' says Mike Conaway, who once worked for Bush and now serves as a Republican congressman from Texas. ''He's rooted in his walk with Christ. He believes he's got a role and he's doing what God wants him to do.''
 And then there is his near-fanatical dedication to his workout regimen, which friends credit for keeping him on an even keel. When Bush is in town during the week, schedulers know to leave enough time in the afternoon for him to slip out for a workout. On the weekends, he favors two-hour bicycle rides at a Secret Service training facility outside Washington, where he sometimes asks companions and agents to ride behind him so that he can have the illusion of riding alone.
 The president makes bicycling an exercise not just in sweat but also in survival, particularly at his Texas ranch. Tony Snow, his onetime press secretary, who died in July, once made the mistake of telling Bush that he would enjoy riding with him sometime. ''I was just, you know, trying to make nice,'' Snow recounted in a commencement address at the Catholic University of America last year. ''I was trying to kiss up to the boss.''
 But Bush took him seriously. ''Snow, you ready to ride?'' he called out the first time Snow went down to the ranch.
 Not really, as it turned out. ''You go off-road,'' Snow recalled, ''and there's a drop of about 15 or 20 feet. It rises up again and then goes around the curve. The president goes down and goes, 'Woo hoo!' Person behind him goes down and goes, 'Woo hoo!' I'm in the back and I go, 'Waaaah.' ''
 Right into a tree.
 ''Snow, you O.K. back there?'' Bush called out.
 ''Yes, sir. Just hit a tree.''
 ''O.K., well, come on, then.''
 The devotion to exercise and schedules seems to stem from the same discipline Bush summoned to quit drinking at age 40. ''He's the first one to admit that he has an addictive personality, and he has to channel this addictiveness to constructive things,'' Dan Bartlett told me. ''He likes systems; he likes structure. It's interesting -- for a personality that's so free-form, he does like structure.''
 He also likes to look ahead rather than back. ''When you're working for the president,'' Bartlett says, ''you've always got to give him something to look forward to.'' 
 Bush refers to his time in office as ''a joyous experience,'' a phrase that seems jarring. A satisfying experience, pursuing important goals, maybe, or a vital experience, to be at the center of so many historic moments. But joyous? With all the heartache, the wars, the political attacks? ''You know, obviously, there's some good days and some bad days,'' Bush tried to explain at a forum in Missouri in May. ''I feel so strongly about my principles and my values, and I'm an optimistic guy.''
 For better or worse, Bush's legacy will start with Iraq. And that's where his fortunes are tied most closely to McCain's. 
 The war looked lost and most of the country had abandoned faith in Bush when the Arizona senator sat down to write the president a letter on Dec. 12, 2006. In the aftermath of what Bush called the ''thumpin' '' his party took in the elections that ousted the Republican Congress the month before, the president had finally dumped the much-criticized defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld and his failing strategy in Iraq. In the private three-page letter, which was given to me last month, McCain warned the president bluntly that he would lose the war without an increase in U.S. forces. He argued that the administration's approach had it backward -- instead of hoping that a political settlement among warring sectarian groups would reduce violence, the administration needed to establish security to create space for an eventual political reconciliation. McCain cited an American Enterprise Institute study suggesting an additional 30,000 troops. ''Without a basic level of security, there will be no political solution, and our mission will fail,'' McCain wrote.
 A month later, Bush announced just such a plan, overruling the objections or concerns of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, his outgoing field commanders, the Iraq Study Group (led by former Secretary of State James Baker and former Representative Lee Hamilton), the new Democratic majorities in Congress and a sizable number of his fellow Republicans -- all part of a Washington consensus that, to varying degrees, wanted him to pull troops out, not send more in. McCain, for once, was impressed that Bush stood up to the pressure. In his mind, that was real leadership. 
 ''He could have done the easy thing,'' says Terry Nelson, a political strategist who worked for both Bush and McCain. ''He could have taken the Baker-Hamilton report, and everyone would have said that was good. And instead, he took a gigantic political risk, which today seems to be paying enormous benefits in terms of security in Iraq and political progress. And he gets no credit. None.''
 That was a moment of real turnabout for the rocky relationship between Bush and McCain. Or perhaps ''relationship'' is not quite the right word. ''There's never really been that much of a relationship,'' Mark Salter told me. ''They kept their distance.'' 
 Bush and McCain were both born to elite families, one the son of a president and grandson of a senator, the other the son and grandson of Navy admirals. They both have a certain irreverent, rebellious streak; they both grew up spending a lot of time on the party circuit, and not the political kind. And they both overcame youthful immaturity through their own personal trials -- Bush's decision to quit drinking and McCain's obviously more extreme experience as a prisoner of war in Vietnam.
 But in many other ways, they could hardly be more different. Bush is an early-to-bed, early-to-rise man. He rarely veers off his talking points. He absolutely hates it when someone forgets to turn a cellphone off during an event and once half-jokingly locked his secretary of state out of a cabinet meeting for being tardy. McCain adheres to scripts only under protest, relishing a more free-for-all approach to politics and life. He seems most at ease during the take-on-all-comers town-hall meetings and sessions with reporters. He orders his campaign plane at night to keep going to the next day's stop no matter how late it gets in, then stays up until midnight watching sports. Mark McKinnon, a media strategist for both men at different points, once told me that working for Bush was like serving in the British Royal Navy, while working for McCain was more like sailing with the Pirates of the Caribbean. 
 Over the years, the two have become ''frenemies,'' as Time magazine put it; not quite friends, not quite enemies. ''They're friendly,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican and McCain ally who has watched the two men up close. ''They don't hang out together. I don't think John's ever been to Camp David. I think it's respectful. President Bush respects Senator McCain, and I think Senator McCain respects the office of the presidency.''
 Neither man knew much about the other as they both geared up for the 2000 race. Bush did not take McCain seriously at first, predicting he ''will wear thin,'' as he told his friend Doug Wead in a conversation that Wead secretly taped and later made public. The scale of that misjudgment became clear when McCain thrashed Bush in the New Hampshire primary. Bush was gracious in the concession call that night, but the spirit of civil competition between the two men would not last. ''We said goodbye as friends,'' McCain later recalled in a memoir. ''We would soon be friends no more.''
 The crucible came in South Carolina, where the tone took a decidedly low turn. Bush stood by as a surrogate at a campaign event accused McCain of forgetting fellow veterans when he returned after five and a half years of captivity in North Vietnam. At McCain headquarters, reports kept pouring in about flyers and phone calls insinuating all manner of scurrilous things about the senator -- he had fathered a black child out of wedlock, he beat his wife, he was mentally unstable, he had a secret Vietnamese family, he was a Manchurian candidate, he was gay, his wife was a drug addict and so forth. Bush denied any involvement in the whisper campaign, but for his own part took umbrage at a McCain ad saying the Texas governor ''twists the truth like Clinton.''
 ''Stuff happened in South Carolina that none of us liked,'' Mark Salter, McCain's alter ego, told me over a beer in a hotel bar during a campaign swing in New England last month. ''But you never knew how much'' was orchestrated by Bush or his people. McCain's campaign was crushed in South Carolina, and McCain did little to hide his anger, calling Bush ''a combination of the Cowardly Lion, the Tin Man and the Scarecrow'' -- in other words, a man with no courage, no heart and no brain. Cindy McCain stewed over the attacks, particularly the ''illegitimate black child'' allegation, a vicious reference to their adopted daughter Bridget, a baby she brought home from an orphanage in Bangladesh run by Mother Teresa. The night of the primary, Cindy cried in the candidate's hotel suite.
 McCain backed Bush for the general election, but without enthusiasm. He grew testy at reporters parsing his words, at one point blurting out, ''I endorse Governor Bush, I endorse Governor Bush, I endorse Governor Bush,'' repeating it seven times as if he were a delinquent scrawling his penance on a chalkboard. To this day, there is a debate about whether McCain actually voted for Bush against Gore. The liberal blogger Arianna Huffington and a couple of Hollywood actors say he told them at a dinner before the January 2001 inauguration that he did not. McCain denies that.
 Either way, he quickly set about making clear he was no Bush man. Although he rejected Democratic entreaties to bolt his party, McCain opposed the new president's tax cuts because, he said, they favored the rich, and he pushed through campaign finance legislation over White House reservations. ''It wasn't intended to annoy the White House,'' Salter said. ''He had his own ideas, his own national following.'' Bush signed the campaign-finance bill into law but, in a snub, held no public ceremony.
 Through the worst of it, McCain, the old Navy man, always stood when talking with Bush on the telephone. And after the Sept. 11 attacks, he rallied behind his commander in chief all the way through the invasion of Iraq. But he soon soured on the president's handling of the war, and by 2004 even entertained a discussion with John Kerry about becoming his running mate on the Democratic ticket. ''There was some argument about it,'' a top official from Bush's re-election campaign recalled. ''We asked ourselves: 'Were they really talking? Was he really serious?' It was a general, 'Why won't they shut it down?' That's when Weaver called Karl.''
 Underlying much of the rivalry between the two camps were aides who openly feuded, most notably Karl Rove and John Weaver, two Texas strategists who had a falling out over money during a 1988 campaign that left them bitter enemies. Weaver finally decided it was time to end their dispute and asked Mark McKinnon, then working for Bush, to set up a meeting. With McKinnon chaperoning, Weaver and Rove sat down at a Caribou Coffee shop a block from the White House and agreed to put the past behind them.
 McCain then joined the Bush re-election effort with zeal, stumping for the president across the country. But in private he could still be scornful. At the Republican National Convention in New York, McCain ran into the Democratic chairman, Terry McAuliffe, who was on hand to provide rebuttal. As they rode up an escalator, McAuliffe wrote in his memoir, McCain put his arm around the Democrat's shoulder and whispered in his ear that Kerry needed to be more aggressive. ''My guy is no great shakes,'' McCain said of Bush, ''but your guy looks like a wimp.''
 When he was with Bush, McCain kept trying to pump the president up, sometimes to extremes. In the green room before an Arizona debate with Kerry, according to aides for both men, McCain kept egging Bush on, telling him, ''You're going to be great'' and ''This is how you've got to hit him back.'' Bush, looking for calm before the televised clash, found McCain's hyper, boxing-coach performance off-putting. ''Man, is he spun up,'' Bush marveled to aides afterward.
 Through the second term, McCain walked a delicate line. He and Bush had come to an uneasy detente. McCain admired Bush's political operation, and as he began entertaining another run at the White House, he tried to co-opt it by recruiting Bush strategists and fund-raisers. He also reversed himself on key Bush policies like the tax cuts. At the same time, McCain grew increasingly disgruntled over the course of the war and the administration's policies on detention and interrogation of suspected terrorists. His discussions about torture with Vice President Dick Cheney grew so testy that Bush pulled Cheney out and sent in the more diplomatic national security adviser, Stephen Hadley, instead.
 In some ways, the more Bush got into trouble, the more McCain gravitated to him. The establishment figure from 2000 had become a lonely maverick in his own right, and McCain began to see Bush with more empathy. The Republican strategist Terry Nelson told me: ''He would say: 'They're a smart group. Why aren't they doing better?' ''
 That's pretty much the question Bush now asks about McCain. As the senator began his second bid for the White House, Bush stayed out of the contest. But close advisers say he harbored a certain admiration for Mitt Romney, seeing more of himself in the former Massachusetts governor -- another son of a politician from a patrician political family who took a businesslike approach to politics and was a reformer at the state level. Bush's sister, Doro Bush Koch, openly backed Romney, and his brother Jeb, the former governor of Florida, sent the campaign several key advisers. George H. W. Bush hosted one of Romney's most important speeches. The president never counted McCain out, though, and he was not entirely surprised when his onetime rival managed a come-from-behind victory to capture the nomination.
 Democrats and their allies are now trying to brand a McCain presidency as ''Bush's third term,'' but the McCain campaign has not exactly been running like a smooth extension of the Bush machine. The last time the party that held the White House nominated someone other than the incumbent president or vice president was 1952, and so for the first time in decades the incumbent party's nominee does not have his own people sitting in on all the meetings at the White House every day.
 Although McCain and Bush both want McCain to win the presidency, the two have different institutional priorities in the near term. While Bush seeks to close on a high note by setting out a ''time horizon'' to bring troops home from Iraq and finding a compromise with North Korea and maybe even Iran over their nuclear programs, in the process his efforts at times have left McCain hanging out alone in more hard-line stances.
 Barry Jackson, the chief White House political strategist, convenes a conference call every evening with McCain's campaign manager, Rick Davis, to coordinate efforts. Yet each side has felt burned by the other. The first miscommunication came the very day Bush was slated to endorse McCain following his primary victories. A misunderstanding among advance staffs sent Bush out to the North Portico of the White House several long minutes before McCain's car was actually due to arrive, leaving the hates-to-wait president just standing there in front of the assembled reporters. Bush kept his humor with the cameras on, even doing a little tap dance, but aides got an earful afterward.
 Bush advisers later said McCain was not to blame for the mix-up, but they were not so forgiving of what happened the next month in New Orleans. Bush brought the president of Mexico and prime minister of Canada to New Orleans in April for a meeting. Hurricane Katrina is such a black mark on Bush's record that he hoped to demonstrate how much he has done to rebuild what was lost. But just two days after Bush left town, McCain flew in to visit the Lower Ninth Ward, the hardest-hit section of New Orleans, and condemned the administration's response to the hurricane as ''disgraceful.'' White House officials recognize that any candidate must promise to do better after Katrina, but they seethed at both the timing and the tone of McCain's remarks. McCain aides tried to soothe the Bush team by telling them that the word ''disgraceful'' was not in the prepared text but came out spontaneously.
 The grievances nursed by both sides have only grown from there. Not only was Bush kept under wraps at the Phoenix fund-raiser, it also came just hours after McCain gave a speech separating himself from the president's nuclear-arms-control policies. For its part, the McCain team was aggravated that Bush's address to Israeli lawmakers in May condemning appeasement of America's enemies, a comment interpreted as a slap at Obama, stepped on their candidate's speech the same day envisioning what a first McCain term would look like. The campaign was equally perturbed when McCain called for lifting restrictions on offshore drilling only to have Bush agree the next day, giving Democrats an opening to trash the senator as a Bush replica. Later that same week, Bush and McCain separately went to Iowa to inspect flood damage just 30 miles apart, each effectively distracting from the other's effort to show compassion.
 The crossed connections have left some political veterans scratching their heads. ''I don't think they've quite figured out how to do this,'' John Weaver, the former McCain strategist, told me. ''If they're going to distance themselves from the president, they need to either do it or not do it.''
 A Republican involved in keeping the two camps working in tandem said that coordination had improved, but, he added, Bush's liabilities cannot be ignored. ''It's almost never a good thing to put them together,'' he told me. Asked if there was a risk of looking too eager to keep Bush in the closet, the strategist said, ''I don't want to be unkind here, but when you're at 29 percent, I think the answer is probably no.'' 
 So McCain picks his Bush moments with care. If the current president is too radioactive, then he will seek out the former one. In late July, at the rocky oceanfront Walker's Point homestead in Kennebunkport, George H. W. Bush drove McCain in a golf cart up to a gaggle of reporters to talk about the campaign. No mystery about why they would spend more than 14 seconds together. ''He's the popular one,'' a McCain aide explained.
 After the news conference overlooking the water on an overcast but lovely Maine day, McCain left for his next event while a few reporters stayed to chat with the 84-year-old former president. Someone noted to him that Obama had recently said nice things about his foreign policy. ''Has he said anything nice about my son's foreign policy?'' the elder Bush asked, recognizing that any praise for him was meant as a dig at the current president. He did not seem surprised when told no.
 But the father said the son could handle the heat. ''He's fine,'' he said. ''We talk all the time. It's been a tough run in terms of criticism. But that's all right. He's strong.'' The elder Bush shook his head. ''A bad break on the economy,'' he added ruefully. ''But who knows?''
 We got into a discussion about his handling of the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and how history looks more favorably on the restraint he showed at the time, seeing it now, as he did then, as a prudent decision not to rub it in the face of the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and risk provoking a reaction. I asked if he thought his own experience with this sort of historical revisionism offered a lesson for his son. He said he did. But he added, ''I don't pass it along.''
 Why not?
 ''Well, why?'' he asked. ''I'm 84. He doesn't need any advice from an old guy.''
 He added: ''I got confidence in him. Every.''
 Will history look on Iraq in a better light 10 years from now?
 ''I hope so,'' he said softly. And then after a slight pause, he made sure to add, ''And think so.''
 With time winding down, advisers say Bush has turned surprisingly wistful. The president has thrown aside the meticulous schedule to halt his motorcade during several recent out-of-town trips -- to chat with children who had set up a lemonade stand outside a North Carolina fund-raiser or to pose for a birthday picture in Ohio with a 91-year-old woman whose family hoisted a sign asking him to stop. By one count, Bush has held 19 sports-related events already this year -- from hosting bass fishermen at the White House to presiding over a T-ball game in Ghana -- and that was before he attended the Olympics in Beijing.
 In late June, the president traveled to a Washington hotel to address a conference of people involved in the faith-based social services he has provided federal money for, introduced by a homeless mother of two who was helped back onto her feet by one of the programs. For Bush, it was a moment to savor part of his legacy. But only three television cameras were on the riser in the back of the room to capture it, and two of them were owned by the government. Nothing about the conference appeared on the broadcast news that night or in the pages of the major papers the next day.
 A month later, I went to another speech billed as major by the White House, this time celebrating Bush's ''freedom agenda'' to an audience of diplomats, officials and others at the Ronald Reagan Building in Washington. Bush traced the philosophical origins of his policy to Abraham Lincoln, Woodrow Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt and Reagan. And he introduced a few dissidents from Cuba, Belarus, North Korea and Iran. ''I know there are moments when it feels like you're alone in your struggle,'' he said, seemingly channeling Spensha Baker. ''And you're not alone. America hears you.''
 But in fact, America that day was hearing Barack Obama, who hours later delivered his speech in Berlin, carried live on television. Bush's speech the next day received an article in The Washington Times, but none in The Washington Post and only a one-and-a-half-paragraph mention in The New York Times account of the Obama address. Even the venerable Associated Press, dutiful chronicler of nearly everything any president ever says, filed no story. No surprise, then, that statistics compiled by the Center for Media and Public Affairs at George Mason University found that the man Jon Stewart calls ''Still President Bush'' gets less than 40 percent of the coverage on the three big broadcast newscasts that he did in his first seven years in office.
 The news media is not the only institution that has essentially moved on. The Democratic Congress, with even lower approval ratings than the president's, has all but washed its hands of him. The Congressional leadership has decided not to send him spending bills for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1 and instead will pass temporary spending bills to keep the government running until the next president arrives. Representative Rahm Emanuel, the House Democratic Caucus chairman, complained to me that Bush and his aides want to fight, not cut deals. ''They think being stubborn is tough,'' he said. ''Stubborn is not tough; it's stubborn.''
 The success of the surge has heartened Bush's allies and advisers, offering a measure of redemption before he leaves office. In truth, they admit, it worked out better than they ever really hoped. The initial uproar in January 2007 over Bush's announcement that he was sending more troops was so fierce, from both parties, that Peter Wehner, then the White House director of strategic initiatives, sent an e-mail message to Rove, Bartlett and the White House chief of staff, Joshua Bolten, warning that ''the presidency is on the line.'' In the end, Bush was right, Wehner told me recently, calling it ''the most admirable, impressive decision the president made.''
 ''Bush will not have lost Iraq,'' he went on to say. ''We almost did. It was slipping out of our fingers. Or to use another metaphor, the place was heading for the cliff, and we pulled it out at the last minute. He's going to hand over an Iraq that is much better than it was two years ago.'' Still, Wehner said, the cost of the war to Bush's presidency proved enormous. ''It was mishandled for too long, and we deserve blame for this. If Iraq had gone well, Bush would be a political colossus, and the Republican Party would bear his imprint in every way. But it didn't.''
 While relieved at the changing fortunes in Iraq, many Bush advisers cannot help now wondering why it took so long to change strategy. Many blame it on Rumsfeld and the president's reluctance to remove him. Without Iraq sucking the energy out of Bush's second term, they reason, maybe he would have had a better chance of pushing through the big domestic achievements he sought, like overhauling Social Security, rewriting the tax code and liberalizing immigration laws. ''For some of us who were there, the frustration is, Could this have happened earlier?'' Gerson asked. Bartlett had the same question when I went to see him in Texas. ''The hard part for everybody is to say how different would it have been if that decision had been made 12 or 16 months before,'' he said.
 In this final season for the Bush presidency, the battle for legacy is being waged on several fronts -- including in the Oval Office itself. When Bush invited a group of conservative scholars and writers for an off-the-record, 90-minute talk at the end of June, he found himself under fire for supposedly abandoning principle in the pursuit of posterity. 
 The presidential pique flared when Max Boot, a military historian at the Council on Foreign Relations and an informal adviser to McCain, spoke up to question what he, like many of his fellow neoconservatives, see as a shifting and softening of policies, according to several people in the room. 
 A lot of people think you've changed from your first term to your second term, Boot began.
 ''That's ridiculous,'' Bush interrupted.
 Undaunted, Boot continued with the bill of particulars: on Iran, on North Korea, on Egypt, on Middle East democracy. Some of his supporters thought Bush was not pushing as hard as he once did, that he was too willing to accept less than he once demanded. 
 Bush retorted sharply. ''That's not true,'' he said, leaning forward in his wingback chair and glaring straight at Boot. Bush seemed most angry at the implication that he was not as committed to what he calls his freedom agenda, which he considers the centerpiece of his presidency. ''I've been fighting for this from Day 1,'' he said. ''It's part of everything I do.''
 Boot remained unimpressed. He cited a column in that morning's Wall Street Journal by John Bolton, who was Bush's ambassador to the United Nations, lacerating the administration for betraying its own principles by lifting some sanctions on North Korea in exchange for an incomplete accounting of Pyongyang's nuclear program. ''Nothing can erase the ineffable sadness of an American presidency, like this one, in total intellectual collapse,'' Bolton wrote.
 Bush grew more agitated at the mention of his own former senior diplomat. ''Let me just say from the outset that I don't consider Bolton credible,'' the president said bitterly. Bush had brought Bolton into the top ranks of his administration, fought for Senate confirmation and, when lawmakers balked, defied critics to give the hawkish aide a recess appointment. ''I spent political capital for him,'' Bush said, and look what he got in return. The president went on to defend his North Korea decision, saying his ''action for action'' approach held out the most hope of getting rid of Pyongyang's nuclear weapons.
 (When I reached Boot later, he declined to describe his discussion with Bush. Bolton, on the other hand, scoffed at Bush's assertion that he has been consistent on North Korea. ''It's just divorced from reality,'' Bolton told me. ''Of course it's a different policy than the first term. He says we haven't changed a bit, and that's just not accurate.'')
 As he wraps up his presidency, Bush has grown increasingly combative in defending his record on all fronts, unwilling to let others define him through their own prisms. He often quarrels with the premise of an interviewer's question that casts his tenure in a way he does not agree with. When he conducted a series of sit-down sessions with foreign journalists before his last Middle East trip, he kept disputing their perception of reality.
 ''No, that's not an accurate statement,'' he chided an Israeli reporter who said the president had waited seven years to become actively involved in the peace process.
 ''Well, I don't think it's an accurate description,'' he complained a half-hour later when an Arab reporter suggested that Lebanon's embattled prime minister had been abandoned.
 And while disclaiming any interest in legacy, the president has begun laying out what he seems to hope his will be. Speaking to an Egyptian interviewer in May, the president said: ''I think history will say George Bush clearly saw the threats that keep the Middle East in turmoil and was willing to do something about it, was willing to lead and had this great faith in the capacity of democracies and great faith in the capacity of people to decide the fate of their countries and that the democracy movement gained impetus and gained movement in the Middle East.'' To a Thai journalist this month, he described his epitaph this way, ''Somebody who took on tough challenges and didn't shy away from doing what he thought was right.''
 That, at least, will be the case he makes aided by the future George W. Bush Presidential Library at Southern Methodist University and a planned freedom institute. Bush's advisers say he intends to use the institute as a catalyst for democracy movements around the world, inviting prominent dissidents and activists for conferences or fellowships. Although they say he does not plan to travel the world intervening in foreign disputes as Jimmy Carter does or sponsoring health initiatives as Bill Clinton does, he hopes his institute will encourage opposition leaders in places like Zimbabwe, Belarus, Cuba, Iran and other repressive states that he focused on during his administration.
 Beyond the library, Bush plans to write a book and is settling on a ghostwriter. During a private gathering for House Republican leaders in the White House residence this summer, he mused about using the book to set the record straight as he sees it. ''He has a number of pivotal points in his presidency that he's willing to sit down and reflect on,'' Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the House minority whip, told me afterward. ''He believes that history is on his side. And if it's not, he's never going to know.''
 Bush, the former Texas Rangers co-owner, does not plan to go back into sports but will earn money through paid speeches, friends say. While keeping the ranch in Crawford, Bush is also buying a house in Dallas to be near the library and the institute. He talked about it during a recent fund-raiser in Houston that was closed to reporters but was surreptitiously videotaped by a guest who slipped it to a local television station.
 ''We've got a housing issue,'' Bush told the donors before adding mischievously, ''evidently not in Dallas, because Laura's over there trying to buy a house today.''
 The crowd laughed. ''What about Crawford?'' someone shouted.
 ''I like Crawford,'' Bush replied. ''Unfortunately, after eight years of asking her to sacrifice, I am now no longer the decision maker. She'll be deciding, thanks for the suggestion. I suggest you don't yell it out when she's here. I did tell her, I said: 'Honey, we've been on government pay now for 14 years. Go slow!' ''
 For now, his role in the campaign is relegated mainly to closed-door fund-raisers for party committees and Congressional candidates. He has raised $138 million so far this two-year cycle, still shy of the $194 million he pulled in during the 2005-06 campaign, according to the Republican National Committee. Before heading to Houston last month, Bush stopped in Tucson to headline yet another fund-raiser for a little-known House candidate. Although he was in McCain's home state, the presidential candidate was nowhere around. Bush did his thing at the $1,000-a-head event, giving a talk and posing for photographs, the 33rd time he had done so this year.
 When the motorcade left the event, it made its way through Tucson, passing by people gathered to watch. A few held up signs.
 ''History will be your judge,'' one read.
 On that, at least, everyone agrees. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY R. KIKUO JOHNSON) (pg.MM27, 31, and 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%)

COMPANY: XCEL ENERGY INC (54%)

TICKER: XEL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); AL GORE (57%); KARL ROVE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008

 
